Pismo Beach Municipal Code
A Codification of the General Ordinances
of the City of Pismo Beach, California
 
Published by
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
Preface
         The Pismo Beach Municipal Code, originally published by Book
Publishing Company in 1991, has been kept current through regular
supplementation.
         During original codification, the ordinances were compiled, edited and
indexed by the editorial staff of Book Publishing Company under the direction
of Sharon Jones, city clerk.
         The code is organized by subject matter under an expandable three-
factor decimal numbering system which is designed to facilitate supplementation
without disturbing the numbering of existing provisions. Each section number
designates, in sequence, the numbers of the title, chapter, and section. Thus,
Section 2.12.040 is Section .040, located in Chapter 2.12 of Title 2. In most
instances, sections are numbered by tens (.010, .020, .030, etc.), leaving nine
vacant positions between original sections to accommodate future provisions.
Similarly, chapters and titles are numbered to provide for internal expansion.
         In parentheses following each section is a legislative history
identifying the specific sources for the provisions of that section. This
legislative history is complemented by an ordinance disposition table,
following the text of the code, listing by number all ordinances, their
subjects, and where they appear in the codification.
         A subject-matter index, with complete cross-referencing, locates
specific code provisions by individual section numbers.
         This supplement brings the code up to date through Ordinance O-2025-
006, passed September 2, 2025.
   American Legal Publishing
   525 Vine Street, Suite 310
   Cincinnati, OH 45202
   (800) 445-5588
   www.amlegal.com
Title 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter 1.01 CODE ADOPTION
1.01.010 Adoption.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 50022.1 through 50022.8 and 50022.10
of the Government Code, there is adopted the Pismo Beach Municipal Code, as
published by Book Publishing Company, Seattle, Washington, together with those
secondary codes adopted by reference as authorized by the California State
Legislature, save and except those portions of the secondary codes as are
deleted or modified by the provisions of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code. (Ord.
91-15 § 1, 1991: prior code § 1.01.010)
1.01.020 Title—Citation—Reference.
   This code shall be known as the Pismo Beach Municipal Code and it shall be
sufficient to refer to said code as the Pismo Beach Municipal Code in any
prosecution for the violation of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at
law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to,
amending, correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an
addition to, amendment to, correction or repeal of the Pismo Beach Municipal
Code. Further reference may be had to the titles, chapters, sections and
subsections of this code and such reference shall apply to that numbered title,
chapter, section or subsection as it appears in this code. (Ord. 91-15 § 2,
1991: prior code § 1.01.020)
1.01.030 Codification authority.
   This code consists of all the regulatory and penalty ordinances and certain
of the administrative ordinances of the city, codified pursuant to the
provisions of Sections 50022.1 through 50022.8 and 50022.10 of the Government
Code. (Ord. 91-15 § 3, 1991: prior code § 1.01.030)
1.01.035 Ordinances passed prior to code adoption.
   The last ordinance included in this code was Ordinance Number 90-22, passed
December 20, 1990. The following ordinances passed subsequent to Ordinance
Number 90-22, but prior to adoption of this code, are adopted and made a part
of this code: Ordinance Numbers 91-01 through 91-14. In addition, code Title 16
entitled "Subdivisions" and Title 17 entitled "Zoning" are made a part of this
code. (Ord. 91-15 § 4, 1991)
1.01.040 Reference applies to amendments.
   Whenever a reference is made to this code as the Pismo Beach Municipal Code
or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the city, the reference shall
apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or hereafter
made. (Ord. 91-15 § 5, 1991: prior code § 1.01.050)
1.01.050 Title, chapter and section headings.
   Title, chapter and section headings contained in this code shall not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or
intent of the provisions of any title, chapter or section of this code. (Ord.
91-15 § 6, 1991: prior code § 1.01.060)
1.01.060 Reference to specific ordinances.
   The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within
the code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this code. (Ord. 91-15 § 7, 1991: prior code §
1.01.070)
1.01.070 Effect of code on past actions and obligations.
   Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendment hereby of any
ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance of the city, shall in any manner
affect the prosecution for violations of ordinances, which violations were
committed prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, nor be construed as a waiver of any license, fee or penalty at said
effective date due and unpaid under such ordinance nor be construed as
affecting any of the provisions of such ordinances relating to the collection
of any such license, fee, or penalty, or the penal provisions of such
ordinances relating to the collection of any such license, fee, or penalty, or
the penal provisions applicable to any violation thereof, nor to affect the
validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof required to be posted,
filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance and all rights and obligations
thereunder appertaining shall continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 91-15 §
8, 1991: prior code § 1.01.080)
1.01.080 Constitutionality.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code. The council hereby
declares that it would have passed this code, and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared
invalid or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this code should be declared
invalid or unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be
in full force and effect. (Ord. 91-15 § 10, 1991: prior code § 1.01.090)
1.01.090 Copies of codes available.
   Following the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the clerk
of the city council shall at all times maintain a reasonable supply of copies
of the primary code hereby adopted by reference and of the secondary codes
hereby adopted by reference in said primary code, available for purchase by the
public at a moderate price, not to exceed the actual cost thereof of the city.
(Prior code § 1.01.100)
1.01.100 Effective date.
   This code shall become effective on the date the ordinance adopting this
code as the Pismo Beach Municipal Code shall become effective, which is thirty
days after adoption. (Ord. 91-15 § 9, 1991: prior code § 1.01.110(part))
1.01.110 Publication.
   Within fifteen days after its passage, the ordinance codified in this
chapter shall be published once, together with the names of the councilmembers
voting thereon, by posting said ordinance in the following three public places,
namely:
   A.   The United States Post Office, Price Street, Pismo Beach;
   B.   The United States Post Office, Shell Beach Road, Pismo Beach;
   C.   City Hall, Pismo Beach. (Ord. O-2016-004 § 1, 2016: Ord. 91-15 § 11,
1991: prior code § 1.01.110 (part))
Chapter 1.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.04.010 Definitions.
   The following words and phrases whenever used in the ordinances of the city
shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the context a
different meaning is intended or unless different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
   "City" and "town" means the city of Pismo Beach, California, or the area
within the territorial limits of the city, and such territory outside of the
city over which the city has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional or statutory provision.
   "City Manager" means the chief administrative officer of the city, and where
the title "city administrator" appears in this code, it shall mean "city
manager."
   "Computation of time" means the time within which an act is to be done. It
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day; and if
the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   "Council" means the city council of the city. "All its members" or "all
councilmen" mean the total number of councilmen provided by the general laws of
the state.
   "County" means the county of San Luis Obispo, California.
   "Law" denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the
state, the ordinances of the city, and when appropriate any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   "May" is permissive.
   "Month" means a calendar month.
   "Must" and "shall." Each is mandatory.
   "Oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation or declaration in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in
such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words
"affirm" and "affirmed."
   "Ordinance" means a law of the city; provided, that a temporary or special
law, administrative action, order or directive, may be in the form of a
resolution.
   "Owner" applied to a building or land includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a
part of such building or land.
   "Person" means natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
   "Personal property" includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
   "Preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
   "Property" includes real and personal property.
   "Real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   "Sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "State" means the state of California.
   "Street" includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs, or other public ways in this city which have been or
may hereafter by dedicated and open to public use, or such other public
property so designated by any law of this state.
   "Tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
Title of Office. Use of the title of any officer, employee, board or commission
means that officer, employee, department, board of commission or the city.
   "Written" includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed or multigraphed.
   "Year" means a calendar year.
   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the
common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law
shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate
meaning.
   When an act is required by an ordinance the same being such that it may be
done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed as to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent. (Ord.
95-07 § 1, 1995; prior code § 1.04.010)
1.04.020 Grammatical interpretation.
   The following grammatical rules shall apply in the ordinances of the city.
   A.   Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
   B.   Singular and Plural. The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
   C.   Tenses. Words used in the present tense include the past and the future
tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
   D.   Use of Words and Phrases. Words and phrases not specifically defined
shall be construed according to the content and approved usage of the language.
(Prior code § 1.04.020)
1.04.030 Prohibited acts include causing, permitting, etc.
   Whenever in the ordinances of the city, any act or omission is made
unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting,
suffering, or concealing the fact of such act or omission. (Prior code §
1.04.030)
1.04.040 Construction.
   The provisions of the ordinances of the city and all proceedings under them
are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
(Prior code § 1.04.040)
1.04.050 Repeal shall not revive any ordinances.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of such
ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby. (Prior code
§ 1.04.050)
Chapter 1.06 CITY INSIGNIA
1.06.010 Purpose.
   This chapter is established in order to prevent the unauthorized use of the
city seal, city logo, or any other city insignia, thereby protecting the city's
identity and brand, and to avoid confusion regarding official communications
from the city to the general public.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 1, 2021)
1.06.020 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter the words and phrases defined in this section
mean as follows:
   A.   "City insignia" shall mean all seal(s), logo(s), or other official
insignia of the City of Pismo Beach enumerated and particularly identified in
administrative rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the City
Manager.
   B.   "City logo" shall mean the standard brand insignia of the City of Pismo
Beach used to publicly convey the identity, authority, or endorsement of the
city government, as adopted by the City Council and particularly identified in
administrative rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the City
Manager.
   C.   "City seal" shall mean the legal, corporate insignia of the City of
Pismo Beach, as more particularly identified in administrative rules and
regulations adopted from time to time by the City Manager.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 1, 2021)
1.06.030 Unauthorized use prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to make or use the city seal, the city logo,
any city insignia, or any facsimile or reproduction thereof, or make or use any
design, symbol, emblem, insignia, or similar device that is an imitation of any
city insignia, or that may be mistaken therefor, that is designed, intended, or
likely to confuse, deceive, or mislead the public, for private or commercial
purposes, or for any purpose other than for the official business of the city,
its City Council, officers or departments, without the express consent of the
City Manager or designees under the authority granted by the City Council.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 1, 2021)
1.06.040 Administrative regulation.
   The City Manager, or designee, shall have the authority to establish
administrative rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this
chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out, furthering,
and enforcing the requirements and the provisions of this chapter. In
particular, the City Manager, or designee, will adopt, from time to time, an
administrative policy setting forth the particular forms of all official city
insignia, along with technical guidelines for, and limitations on, the use
thereof. All insignia specifically enumerated in such administrative regulation
shall be considered city insignia as referred to herein. A copy of such
administrative regulation shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 1, 2021)
1.06.050 Violation.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
as set forth in Pismo Beach Municipal Code Section
1.20.010.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 1, 2021)
Chapter 1.08 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS
1.08.010 Administrative appeals.
   The provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6, as it
may be amended from time to time, are hereby made applicable to appeals from
final administrative decisions by the city. The city clerk shall establish a
procedure to assure compliance with the notice, preparation of record, and
other requirements of said section. (Prior code § 1.16.010)
Chapter 1.16 RIGHT OF ENTRY
1.16.010 Right of entry for inspection.
   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any ordinance or
resolution, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe there exists an
ordinance or resolution violation in any building or upon any premises within
the jurisdiction of the city, any authorized official of the city, as from time
to time designated by the council, may upon presentation of proper credentials,
enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect same or to
perform any duty imposed upon him by ordinance; provided, that except in
emergency situations or when consent of the owner and/or his local agent to the
inspection has been otherwise obtained, he shall give the owner and/or his
legal agent, if they can be located after reasonable effort, seven days written
notice, via certified mail, return receipt requested, of the authorized
official's intention to inspect. The notice transmitted to the owner and/or
legal agent, shall state that the property owner has the right to refuse entry
and that in the event such entry is refused, inspection may be made only upon
issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event the
owner and/or legal agent refuses entry after such request has been made, the
official is empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent
jurisdiction in obtaining such entry, but only with the concurrence of the
council first had and obtained. (Prior code § 1.08.010)
Chapter 1.20 GENERAL PENALTY
1.20.010 Violation—Penalty.
   A.   Misdemeanors or Infractions. Any person violating any of the provisions
or failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of the ordinances
of the city, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, unless by ordinance said
violation or failure is specifically made an infraction.
   B.   Misdemeanor Punishment. Except in cases where a different punishment is
prescribed by any ordinance of the city, any person convicted of a misdemeanor
under the ordinances of the city shall be punished by a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   Infraction Punishment. Except in cases where a different punishment is
prescribed by any ordinance of the city, any person convicted of an infraction
under the ordinances of the city shall be punished by the imposition of a fine
only, without any imprisonment, as follows:
   1.   A fine of not exceeding one hundred dollars for a first violation;
   2.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars for a second violation of the
same ordinance within any twelve month period; or
   3.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars for each third or subsequent
violation of the same ordinance within any twelve month period.
   D.   Each Day a Separate Offense. Each such person shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of any provision of the ordinances of the city is committed,
continued or permitted by any such person, who shall be punished accordingly.
   E.   Public Nuisance Abatement. In addition to the penalties provided by
this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of
the provisions of this code, or the provisions of any code adopted by reference
by this code, shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by
the city, and each day such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and
separate offense. The remedy provided in this chapter is separate from, and in
addition to, any other nuisance abatement remedy provided by ordinance or state
law.
   F.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this code, a violation of
this code shall be deemed an infraction if the city attorney files a complaint
in the superior court specifying that the offense is an infraction or if the
city attorney makes a motion to reduce a misdemeanor charge to an infraction
prior to trial on the matter. (Ord. O-2016-004 § 2, 2016; Ord. 90 19 § 2(A) and
(B), 1990; prior code § 1.12.010)
1.20.020   Judicial remedies and penalties.
   The city may request, in any civil case or as a condition of probation or
sentencing on any criminal conviction of such city code violation, that the
defendant provide full restitution to the city for inspection and code
enforcement costs.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 2 (part), 2009)
1.20.030   Administrative penalties.
   When the maintenance, condition, construction or use of any real property is
such that it violates any section of this code, except for legal nonconforming
structures or uses, and such violation continues past the date for attaining
compliance as set forth in a written notice which the city shall provide to the
owner, informing the owner of the violation, the city may do all or any of the
following in addition to all other penalties or remedies available to the city:
   1.   Record with the county recorder a notice of violation of this code
setting forth all violations relating to the real property.
   2.   Require the owner, as part of the application fee for any needed permit
which the property owner failed to obtain before the activity or use was
initiated, to pay a code enforcement cost surcharge in an amount equal to the
city's costs for its code enforcement efforts.
   3.   Commence an abatement procedure as authorized under this code.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 2 (part), 2009)
Chapter 1.24
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
1.24.010   Purpose—Adoption of administrative guidelines.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enable the city to impose and collect
civil administrative fines in conjunction with the enforcement of provisions of
this code. Notwithstanding the provisions herein, the city has, and shall
continue to employ, the philosophy of voluntary compliance when seeking
compliance with this code. Prior to the implementation of the enforcement
policies and penalties stated herein, voluntary compliance approaches, when
practical, should first be used in order to educate city property owners and
businesses concerning the requirements of this code and the corrective action
necessary to correct a violation of this code.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.020   Applicability.
   A.   Enforcement of the Municipal Code. This chapter makes any violation of
the provisions of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code, including but not limited to
all construction and property maintenance codes adopted by reference and
amended pursuant to Title 15 of this Code, subject to administrative fines.
   B.   Administrative authority. This chapter establishes the procedures for
the imposition, enforcement, collection, and review of civil administrative
fines pursuant to Section 53069.4 of the California Government Code.
   C.   Remedies not exclusive. The use of the administrative enforcement
remedies provided by this chapter is solely at the city's discretion. By
adopting this chapter, the city does not intend to limit its discretion to
choose the use of any other remedy, civil or criminal, or other administrative
procedures, for the abatement of such violations that the city may select in a
particular case, including procedures for the imposition of civil or criminal
penalties.
   D.   Strict liability of the owner. Because serious code violations may
impact public health, welfare, and safety and the adequacy and safety of
housing, this chapter is intended to impose strict civil liability upon the
owners of real property (or the owner of a business where the violation is
caused by or relates to the operation of a business) for all violations of the
Pismo Beach Municipal Code which may occur in the city of Pismo Beach
regardless of the existence of specific or general intent or prior knowledge of
such violations and, further, regardless of any intent (or lack thereof) to
violate the code.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.030   Definitions.
   The following definitions apply to the use of these terms for the purposes
of this chapter:
   A.   "Code violation" means any violation of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
   B.   "Director" means the department head, or designee as approved by the
City Manager, responsible for enforcing the municipal code with respect to the
Director's department.
   C.   "Enforcement officer" means those city employees designated by the
director and all peace officers providing law enforcement services in the city
of Pismo Beach.
   D.   "Hearing officer" means the person designated to serve as the hearing
officer for administrative hearings. The hearing officer shall be a city
department head, or designee, from a city department other than the department
that issued the administrative citation. The employment, performance
evaluation, compensation and benefits of the hearing officer, if any, shall not
be directly or indirectly conditioned upon the amount of notice of
administrative citation fines upheld by the hearing officer.
   E.   "Issued" means giving, mailing, or posting a notice of administrative
citation to a person where "issuance" is deemed to have occurred on the earlier
of the date when a notice of administrative citation is personally served on a
person, the date it is mailed to a person by posting in the regular United
States mail, or the date it is physically posted on real property where a
property related code violation is occurring.
   F.   "Notice of administrative citation" means an official city Municipal
Code violation notice issued to a person(s) notifying them that they are in
violation of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code with respect to certain real
property or the operation of a certain business. In the case of an initial
notice, if the violation has not been corrected by a specified date, a civil
administrative fine will be imposed. Subsequent notices regarding the same type
of violation, within any twelve (12) month period, may be cause for imposing
additional administrative fines without warning.
   G.   "Person" means any of the following:
   1.   An individual who causes a code violation to occur.
   2.   An individual who maintains or allows a code violation to continue, by
their action or failure to act in a lawful manner.
   3.   An individual whose agent, employee, or independent contractor causes a
code violation by its action or failure to act in a lawful manner.
   4.   An individual who is an owner of real property where a property related
code violation occurs.
   5.   An individual who is an owner of a business or who is the on-site
manager of a business and who normally works at the site when the business is
open and is responsible for the activities at such premises.
   For purposes of this subsection "person" includes a natural person or a
legal entity including but not limited to, the owners, majority stockholders,
corporate officers, trustees, and general partners of a legal entity. There
shall be a legally rebuttable presumption that the record owner of a parcel as
listed on the county's latest equalized property tax assessment rolls is the
person responsible for a code violation on such parcel. In addition, where
applicable, a commercial lessee, sublessee, or operator of a business on a
parcel shall be presumed responsible for code violations relating to the
operation of the business on that parcel.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.040   Authority to enforce administrative remedies.
   A.   Limitations. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted
as providing a code enforcement officer designated by the director with the
authority to enforce any provision of the California Penal Code, the California
Vehicle Code or any other statute that is specifically required to be enforced
solely by the city's law enforcement agency.
   B.   Persons to retain exclusive authority. Nothing in this chapter shall
limit or otherwise restrict any employee, agent or official of the city from
exercising any exclusive authority to enforce any law or regulation as provided
by any applicable statute, regulation, or policy.
   C   Right to inspect. Enforcement officers are authorized to inspect all
real property and other premises to ascertain whether such real property and
other premises are in full compliance with the provisions of this Code and/or
applicable statutes, codes and regulations. All such inspections shall be
conducted in such a manner as to be consistent with this code, all state and
federal law, and the constitutions of the United States and the State of
California.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.050   Maintaining public nuisances prohibited.
   Pursuant to the authority of Section 38771 of the California Government
Code, any continuing violation of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code constitutes a
public nuisance. Therefore, any person owning or having possession of any real
property in the City of Pismo Beach who is in violation of any provision of the
Pismo Beach Municipal Code may be determined to be maintaining a public
nuisance; provided, however, that it shall not be the intent of the city that
this chapter preempt any private nuisance right of action or any and all other
legal remedies available to private parties to abate such nuisances.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.060   Abatement of unlawful conditions—Administrative citation.
   A.   Inspections. Whenever an enforcement officer charged with the
enforcement of any provision of this code inspects a property and determines
that conditions constituting a violation of the Municipal Code exist thereon,
the enforcement officer shall have the authority to issue an administrative
citation to any person responsible for the violation.
   B.   Development review conditions. Every person who applies for and
receives a permit, license, or any type of land use approval (such as, but not
limited to, a development review approval, a subdivision map approval, a
conditional or special use permit, a zoning requirement modification, a
variance, or other discretionary approval) shall comply with all mandatory
approval conditions imposed upon the issuance of the permit, license, or other
such approval. If a person violates any condition of such permit, license, or
similar land use approval, that person may be issued an administrative
citation.
   C.   Notice of administrative citation issuance. The enforcement officer
shall generally issue a notice of administrative citation to the owner or
owners of the real property upon which the violation exists as the person
presumed under this chapter to be responsible for the violation, or to any
other person deemed responsible for the violation. A person to whom a notice of
administrative citation is issued shall be liable for and shall pay to the city
the administrative fine or fines described in the notice of administrative
citation when due pursuant to the provision of this chapter. Each
administrative citation shall contain the following information:
   1.   The date of the violation;
   2.   The address or a definite description of the location where the
violation occurred;
   3.   The section of this code violated and a brief description of the
violation;
   4.   The amount of the fine for the code violation;
   5.   A description of the fine payment process, including a description of
the time within which and the place to which the fine shall be paid;
   6.   An order prohibiting the continuation or repeated occurrence of the
code violation described in the administrative citation;
   7.   A description of the administrative citation appeal process, including
the time within which the administrative citation may be contested and the city
office from which a request for hearing form to appeal the administrative
citation may be obtained;
   8.   The name and signature of the citing enforcement officer.
   D.   Continuing violations. Each day a violation of this code exists shall
be a separate and distinct violation and may be subject to a separate
administrative fine. A notice of administrative citation may charge a violation
for one or more days on which a violation exists and for violation of one or
more applicable code sections. Pursuant to Section 53069.4(a)(2)(A) of the
Government Code, a person responsible for a continuing violation shall be given
not less than two (2) calendar days to correct or otherwise remedy a continuing
violation before a subsequent citation may be issued.
   E.   Prior violations. The city may take into consideration the fact that a
person has been previously issued a notice of administrative citation when the
city is determining whether to accept an application or to grant any permit,
license or any similar type of land use approval for that person, and such
notice of administrative citation may be used as evidence that the person has
committed acts that are not compatible with the health, safety, and general
welfare of other persons and businesses within the city.
   F.   Service of notice. The notice of administrative citation and any
amended notice of administrative citation shall be served as provided in
Section 1.24.150 of this Code.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. O-2020- 001, § 1, 2020: Ord. 2009-003,
§ 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.070    Extensions of time.
   If the director receives a request from any person required to comply with a
notice of administrative citation, the director may grant an extension of any
fine due date or abatement deadline if the director determines that such an
extension of time will not create or perpetuate imminent danger to the public
health and safety. The director shall have the authority to place reasonable
conditions on such an extension.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.080   Amount of fines.
   A.   Amount of fine. The amounts of the fines for code violations imposed
pursuant to an administrative citation shall be set forth in a schedule of
fines established by resolution of the city council and shall not exceed the
maximum fine or penalty amounts for infractions set forth in Section 36900 of
the California Government Code. In the event no fine is specified in the
schedule of fines authorized by this section, the maximum fines shall be those
set forth in Section 36900 of the California Government Code.
   B.   Repeat violations. The schedule of fines shall specify any increased
fines for repeat violations of the same code provision by the same person.
   C.   Late payment charges. Any person who fails to pay to the city any fine
imposed pursuant to an administrative citation on or before the date that the
fine is due shall be liable for the payment of any applicable late payment
charges set forth in the schedule of fines.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.090   Payment of fines.
   A.   Due date. The fine shall be paid to the city within thirty (30) days
from the date of the issuance of the administrative citation, or, in the event
of an appeal, as determined by the hearing administrator.
   B.   Refunds. Any administrative citation fine paid pursuant to Section
1.24.080.A. of this Code shall be refunded if it is determined by the hearing
administrator, after a hearing, that the person charged in the administrative
citation was not responsible for the violation or that there was no violation
as charged in the administrative citation.
   C.   Further violations. Payment of an administrative citation fine shall
not excuse or discharge any continuation or repeated occurrence of the code
violation that is the subject of the administrative citation. The issuance of a
notice of administrative citation or the payment of a fine does not preclude
the city from taking any other enforcement or legal action regarding a code
violation that is not corrected, including issuing additional notices of
administrative citation or the initiation of criminal or civil proceedings.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.100   Appeal of notice of administrative citation.
   A.   Appeal to hearing administrator. Any person aggrieved by the action of
the enforcement officer in issuing a notice of administrative citation pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter may appeal such notice to the hearing
administrator. If no appeal is filed within ten (10) business days of the date
of issuance of the notice of administrative citation, the order of the
enforcement officer shall be deemed final.
   B.   Corrections. Revocation of the notice of administrative citation by the
hearing officer or voluntary abatement of the nuisance either on or prior to
the notice of administrative citation due date, and any authorized extensions
thereto, shall cause the case to be closed.
   C.   Citation appeals. To appeal a notice of administrative citation, the
person receiving the notice (the "appellant") shall file a signed written
request complying with this chapter. An appellant may appeal the notice of
administrative citation by denying that a violation occurred, by alleging that
a violation was corrected within the required correction period or, if
applicable, by establishing that the appellant was not the owner of the real
property or the owner of the business at the time the violation should have
been corrected.
   D.   Receipt of an appeal. To be effective, the citation appeal must be
received by the city clerk, or designee, not later than 5:00 p.m. ten (10)
business days after the date the notice of administrative citation was issued.
Where an appeal is submitted by mail, the appeal shall be deemed filed on the
date actually received by the city clerk. Failure by the appellant to timely
request an appeal shall be deemed a waiver of the right to appeal. The
appellant shall be responsible for ensuring timely receipt of the appeal by the
city clerk, regardless of the method of transmission of the appeal.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. O-2021- 003 § 3, 2021: Ord. 2009-003,
§ 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.110   Hearing procedures.
   A.   Time and place of hearings. Hearings shall be conducted by a hearing
administrator on the date, time and place specified by the city not less than
ten (10) days and not more than twenty days (20) from the date the appeal
request is received. As soon as practicable after scheduling the hearing, the
hearing administrator or city clerk shall prepare a notice of administrative
citation appeal hearing, which shall be in substantially the following form:
   "You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before the
Administrative Hearing Officer at ________ on the ___ day of _______, ____, to
hear your appeal of the administrative citation issued or otherwise served upon
you. You must appear at the hearing, or obtain a continuance in accordance with
Municipal Code Section 1.24.110(F), otherwise your appeal will be deemed
abandoned. You may be, but need not be, represented by an attorney. You may
testify at the hearing and present any relevant evidence prior to and/or at the
hearing."
   The notice of administrative citation appeal shall be served by mail or
personal service as provided in Section 1.24.150 of this Code.
   B.   Appeal records. The city clerk or designee shall ensure that the
pertinent notice of administrative citation, together with the enforcement
officer's evidence file if requested by the hearing administrator, is delivered
to the hearing administrator in sufficient time prior to the appeal hearing.
Before the hearing, the city clerk shall also make available to the appellant a
copy of any information concerning the notice of administrative citation which
will be provided to the hearing administrator.
   C.   Presentation of evidence. At the hearing, the appellant shall be given
the opportunity to testify and to present evidence relevant to the code
violation specified in the notice of administrative citation.
   D.   Use of reports as evidence. The notice of administrative citation and
any other reports prepared by the enforcement officer or the director
concerning a code violation or attempted correction of a code violation that
are provided to the hearing administrator shall be accepted by the hearing
administrator as prima facie evidence of the code violation and the facts
stated in such documents.
   E.   Witnesses and additional evidence. Neither the enforcement officer nor
any other representative of the city shall be required to attend the appeal
hearing, nor shall the hearing administrator require that there be submitted
any evidence, other than the notice of administrative citation, that may exist
among the public records of the city with respect to the violation. However,
any such appearance or submission may be made at the discretion of the
director.
   F.   Continuances. The hearing administrator may continue an appeal hearing
if a request is made showing good cause by the appellant or the director. All
continuance requests shall either: (1) be made in person at the hearing by the
appellant or appellant's representative if the appellant is physically unable
to attend; or (2) be made by a written request received from the director or
the appellant prior to the hearing. If the continuance is granted, a new
hearing date shall be set within thirty (30) days. If the continuance is
denied, the hearing shall proceed then and there as scheduled, and if the
appellant is not present the appeal request(s) shall be deemed abandoned in
accordance with subsection H. of this section.
   G.   Rules of evidence. The appeal hearing shall be conducted informally and
the legal or formal rules of evidence need not be followed. The hearing
administrator does not have the authority to issue a subpoena.
   H.   Failure to appear. The failure of the appellant to appear at the
hearing, unless the hearing was continued per subsection F. of this section,
shall constitute an abandonment of the appeal.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. O-2021- 003, § 4, 2021: Ord. 2009-003,
§ 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.120   Hearing administrator's decision.
   A.   Notice of decision. After considering all the evidence and testimony
submitted at an appeal hearing, the hearing administrator shall issue a notice
of decision within ten (10) days to either uphold or revoke the notice of
administrative citation, based upon a conclusion of whether a violation
occurred. Within one (1) business day subsequent to the hearing administrator's
issuance of the notice of decision, the notice of decision shall be mailed by
first class and certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to
the appellant or their designated representative. Any failure by the appellant
to appear at the appeal hearing shall be noted on the notice of decision by the
hearing administrator. The hearing administrator may reduce or cancel the
amount of any administrative fine or revoke the notice of administrative
citation in unusual cases when extenuating circumstances make doing so
appropriate and in the interest of justice. The decision of the hearing
administrator shall be final.
   B.   Payment of fine after appeal decision. The filing of an appeal shall
suspend any fine assessed in the notice of administrative citation. In the
event that the notice of administrative citation is revoked, the fine shall
also be revoked. In the event that the notice of administrative citation is
upheld, a new compliance deadline and fine due date shall be established by the
hearing administrator and indicated on the notice of decision for the appeal.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.130   Right to judicial review.
   A.   Applicability of Section 53069.4 of the California Government Code. The
appellant may seek judicial review of the hearing administrator's decision by
filing a further appeal with the San Luis Obispo County Superior Court, Limited
Civil Division, within twenty (20) calendar days after the service of the
notice of decision, in accordance with the provisions of Section 53069.4 of the
California Government Code. The appeal filed with the court must also contain a
proof of service showing a copy of the appeal was served upon the hearing
administrator for the City of Pismo Beach. The appellant must pay to the
Superior Court the appropriate court filing fee when the appeal is filed.
   B.   Failure to exhaust administrative appeal. No judicial review is
permitted from a decision where the appellant is deemed to have abandoned the
contest of the notice of administrative citation by an unexcused failure to
appear at the appeal hearing or by the failure to request an administrative
appeal hearing before the hearing administrator.
   C.   Forwarding of records to Superior Court. Within fifteen (15) days of
the Court's request, the city attorney or the city attorney's designee shall
forward to the Superior Court the pertinent notice of administrative citation
documents for any case appealed to that court. If the Superior Court revokes
any notice of administrative citation or otherwise finds in favor of the
appellant, the city will refund to the appellant the Superior Court filing fee
paid by the appellant as required by Section 53069.4(b)(2) of the California
Government Code .
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.140   Collection of unpaid fines.
   A.   City remedies. The city, at its discretion, may pursue any and all
legal, equitable, and administrative remedies for the collection of unpaid
civil administrative fines imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   1.   Remedies cumulative. Pursuit of one remedy does not preclude the
pursuit of any other remedies until the total fines owed by a person under this
chapter have been collected.
   2.   Refusal to issue permits. A city department may refuse to accept an
application for a city permit or license or to refuse to issue, extend, or
renew to any person, who has unpaid delinquent fines, liens, or assessments,
any city permit, license, or other city approval pertaining to the property
that is the subject of a notice of administrative citation and an unpaid
administrative fine.
   3.   Suspension of issued permits. Notwithstanding any other provision of
the code, any permit, license, or any type of land use approval issued by the
city to a person who has unpaid administrative fines totaling five hundred
dollars ($500) or more which remain delinquent for thirty (30) days or longer
may be suspended by the department which issued the permit or other
entitlement. The suspension becomes effective ten (10) days after the date the
notice of the suspension is placed by the issuing department in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person, and continues until the
administrative delinquency is paid in full. The person may request an appeal/or
review hearing pursuant to the specific permit, license, or other city approval
procedures or ordinance if such a request is filed before the ten-day period
ends.
   4.   Criminal remedies. The city attorney, at their discretion, may also
issue a criminal citation or complaint (infraction or misdemeanor) to any
person for a code violation when the applicable fine has not been paid.
   B.   Violations constitute a public nuisance. The director may pursue the
remedies described in this section whether or not the city is pursuing any
other action to terminate an ongoing code violation that was the basis for an
administrative fine or to otherwise abate the violation or sanction the
property owner. To compel code compliance, the city may also seek to collect
assessed fines by means of a nuisance abatement lien or special assessment
against the property where a property related violation occurred in accordance
with the procedures in Sections 38773.1 and 38773.5 of the California
Government Code.
   C.   Lien conditions. To recover any delinquent administrative fines as a
lien or special assessment on real property, the following conditions must be
met:
   1.   The director must submit to and receive approval from the city council
for a resolution certifying the amounts of the liens and special assessments
sought to be collected from each property owner; and
   2.   The total amount of the delinquent fine against the property owner must
be delinquent for sixty days or more.
   D.   Lien collections. The director is authorized to take any steps
necessary to enforce collection of the lien or special assessment, including
but not limited to the following:
   1.   Request the county recorder to record a notice of any lien or special
assessment certified by resolution of the city council.
   2.   Request the county tax collector on behalf of the city to collect any
special assessments certified by resolution of the city council.
   E.   Notice of lien collection procedures. All notices of administrative
citation shall contain a notice that unpaid fines are subject to the assessment
and lien collection procedures of this chapter. This notice shall satisfy the
notice requirements of Sections 38773.1 and 38773.5 of the California
Government Code when a notice of administrative citation is served on the
person. In addition, the director shall by first class mail send notice stating
the date, time, and location of the meeting to each property owner at least ten
days before the city council considers the resolution to certify the amounts of
the liens and special assessments. The lien or special assessment shall be
imposed on the date the notice of administrative citation for the code
violation is issued to the responsible person and shall become effective upon
the recording of a notice of lien or special assessment by the county recorder.
   F.   Contesting certification of a lien. A person may contest the amount or
the validity of any lien or special assessment for a civil fine at the public
hearing when the city council considers the resolution to certify the liens or
assessments. Such contests shall be limited to the issue of the amount or
validity of the lien or assessment and may not consider whether the underlying
code violation occurred. Pursuit of such a contest by a person is necessary to
exhaust the administrative remedies concerning a legal challenge to the
validity of any such lien or special assessment.
   G.   Satisfaction of lien. When payment in full is received by the city for
outstanding penalties and costs, the director shall either record a notice of
satisfaction or provide the property owner or financial institution with a
notice of satisfaction so they may record this notice with the county recorder.
Such notice of satisfaction shall cancel the city's lien.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.24.150   Notices.
   A   Service. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, all notices
required to be given by this chapter, including, but not limited to,
administrative citations, notice of hearings and the hearing administrator's
decision shall be given either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be
notified or by deposit in the United States mail, in a sealed envelope postage
paid, addressed to such person to be notified at the person's last known
business or residence address as the same appears in the public records or
other records pertaining to the matter to which such notice is directed. Except
for notices of appeal pursuant to Section 1.24.100.D. of this Code, service by
mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit in the
United States mail. Where real property is involved, written notices shall be
mailed to the property owner(s) at the address shown on the last equalized
county assessment roll.
   B.   Unsuccessful service of notice. Where personal service or service by
mail upon the property owner is unsuccessful, the city shall cause all of the
following to occur:
   1.   A copy of the noticed material shall be conspicuously posted at the
real property which is the subject of the citation, abatement or compliance
order;
   2.   A copy of the notice, as appropriate, shall be published at least three
(3) consecutive days in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. A copy
of the notice shall be published at least five (5) days prior to the date of
any public hearing or proceeding related to the notice.
   C.   Validity. Failure to receive any notice specified in this chapter shall
not affect the validity of proceedings conducted hereunder.
(Ord. O-2025-002, § 2 (part), 2025; Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
Chapter 1.28
CITATION PROCEDURE
1.28.010   Notice to appear.
   If any person is arrested for the violation of any ordinance of the City as
set forth in this code, and such person is not immediately taken before a
magistrate, as is more fully set forth in the California Penal Code, the
arresting officer shall prepare in duplicate, a written notice to appear in
court, containing the name and address of such person, the offense charged and
the time and place when such person shall appear in court. The officer is also
authorized to issue a notice to appear to a corporation.
   A.   Time. The time specified in the notice to appear shall be not less than
twenty days after such arrest, or thirty days if filed with the city attorney.
   B.   Place. The place specified in the notice to appear shall be either the
court of the magistrate before whom the person would be taken if the
requirement of taking an arrested person before a magistrate were complied
with, or an officer authorized by such court to receive a deposit of bail.
   C.   Written Promise. The officer shall deliver one copy of the notice to
appear to the arrested person and the arrested person, in order to secure a
release, must give his or her written promise so to appear in court by signing
the duplicate notice, which shall be retained by the officer. Thereupon the
arresting officer shall forthwith release the person arrested from custody.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.28.020   Bail—Deposit and forfeiture.
   The officer shall, as soon as practicable, file a duplicate notice with the
magistrate or city attorney, as specified in such notice. The defendant may,
prior to the date upon which he or she promised to appear in court, deposit
with the magistrate the amount of bail set by such magistrate. Therefore, at
the time when the case is called for arraignment before the magistrate, if the
defendant does not appear, either in person or by counsel, the magistrate may
declare the bail forfeited and may at his or her discretion order that no
further proceedings be had, all sums deposited as bail shall forthwith be paid
into the city treasury.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.28.030   Warrant issuance—When.
   A warrant shall not be issued on such charge for the arrest of a person who
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter has given such written promise to
appear in court, unless and until he or she has violated such promise, or has
failed to deposit bail, to appear for arraignment, trial or judgement, or to
comply with the terms and provisions of the judgment as required by law.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.28.040   Violation of written promise to appear—Deemed misdemeanor.
   Every person wilfully violating his or her written promise to appear in
court is guilty of a misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the charge
upon which he or she was originally arrested and shall be punishable in
accordance with Section
1.20.010.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.28.050   Failure to appear and post bail-Warrant issuance.
   When a person who signs a written promise to appear at the time and place
specified in the written promise to appear has not posted bail as provided in
Section
1.28.020, the magistrate shall issue and have delivered for execution a warrant
for his or her arrest within twenty days after his or her failure to appear as
promised. If a person promises to appear before an officer authorized to accept
bail other than a magistrate and fails to do so on or before the date which he
or she promised to appear, then within twenty days after the delivery of such
written promise to appear by the officer to a magistrate having jurisdiction
over the offense, such magistrate shall issue and have delivered for execution
a warrant for his or her arrest. When such person violates his or her promise
to appear before an officer authorized to receive bail other than a magistrate,
the officer shall immediately deliver to the magistrate having jurisdiction
over the offense charged the written promise to appear and the complaint, if
any, filed by the arresting officer.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
1.28.060   Code enforcement officer designation authority.
   The city manager is empowered to designate public officers or employees of
the city to exercise the powers authorized by California Penal Code Section
836.5(a), including the issuance of citations for violation of the provisions
of the municipal code pursuant to California Penal Code Sections 853.5 and
853.6 . The code enforcement officer and the building official shall be two of
those employees so authorized.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 1 (part), 2009)
Title 2 ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
Chapter 2.02 ELECTIONS AND CAMPAIGN FINANCE
2.02.010 Date of general municipal election.
   The city's general municipal elections shall be held on the same day as, and
consolidated with, the statewide general elections on the first Tuesday after
the first Monday of November in each even-numbered year.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 5, 2021)
2.02.020 Campaign contribution and expenditure limits.
   A.   No campaign contribution limitation or expenditure limitation shall
apply to any of the following:
      1.   Any candidate for Pismo Beach elective office;
      2.   Any campaign committee organized to support or oppose candidate(s)
for Pismo Beach elective office;
      3.   Any campaign committee organized to support or oppose the passage or
defeat of ballot measure(s) specific to the city of Pismo Beach;
      4.   Any entity otherwise required by the provisions of the Political
Reform Act (California Government Code Section 81000 et seq.), and companion
regulations, to file campaign finance statements with the City of Pismo Beach.
In the case of an entity required to file campaign finance statements in
multiple jurisdictions, the city shall not impose any contribution or
expenditure limitation, irrespective of any limitation imposed by such other
jurisdiction.
   B.   This section does not eliminate, modify, or abridge any other
obligations imposed on any of the persons or entities described in subsection
(a) by the Political Reform Act, California Elections Code, or other applicable
statute or regulation.
   C.   As used in this section, the terms "candidate," "committee,"
"contribution," and "expenditure" shall have the same meaning as provided by
the Political Reform Act and companion regulations.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 5, 2021)
2.02.030 Electronic filing of campaign disclosure statements.
   Pursuant to California Government Code Section 84615, the City of Pismo
Beach hereby finds that an online or electronic filing system will facilitate
the efficient and secure filing of required campaign reports, and that such
system will operate securely and effectively and will not unduly burden filers.
   A.   Whenever any elected officer, candidate, or committee is required to
file a campaign statement under the Political Reform Act (California Government
Code Section 81000 et seq.) and companion regulations with the city clerk, the
elected officer, candidate, or committee shall file the statement in an
electronic format prescribed by the city clerk.
   B.   Any statement, report, or other document filed electronically or online
pursuant to this section will be accepted as an original statement and need not
and shall not be filed in paper format, unless specifically authorized in
advance by the city clerk.
   C.   The date of filing for a statement, report, or other document that is
filed online or electronically shall be the day that it is received by the
local filing officer, and the electronic system will record a timestamp
ensuring that the statement, report, or other document was received.
   D.   If access to online filings has not been prescribed in a timely manner,
the elected city officer, candidate, or committee may file an original
statement by paper, at the discretion of the Filing Officer.
   E.   As used in this section, the terms "candidate," "committee,"
"contribution," and "expenditure" shall have the same meaning as provided by
the Political Reform Act and companion regulations.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 5, 2021)
Chapter 2.04 CITY COUNCIL
2.04.010 Date of taking office.
   Members of the council elected at a general or special municipal election
shall take their office no later than the next regularly scheduled city council
meeting following completion of the canvass of the returns, or at a special
meeting called for this purpose. A member of the council shall be deemed to
have taken office upon being administered, and signing a written copy of, an
oath of office in the standard form prescribed for agency officers.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.020 Salaries designated.
   A.   Each member of the city council shall receive, as salary, the sum of
nine hundred twenty-six dollars and sixty-four cents ($926.64) per month, as
prescribed by Section 36516 et seq. of the Government Code for cities of up to
and including thirty-five thousand in population, effective as of the date one
or more members of the city council are sworn in for a new term of office
following certification of the results of the November 8, 2022 general
election.
   B.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 36516.1, in addition to the above
salary received as a member of the city council, the mayor shall receive three
hundred dollars ($300.00) per month.
   C.   In addition, each member of the council shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses incurred in the performance of the council's duties in such amounts as
may be approved by resolution. Both the salary and the expense reimbursements
shall be payable at the same time and in the same manner as the same are paid
to other officers and employees of the city.
(Ord. O-2022-006, § 2, 2022: Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.030 Salaries—Operative date.
   Any change in salary for members of the council shall become operative only
on and after the date upon which one or more members of the council become
eligible for the salary prescribed, by virtue of beginning a new term of office
following the general municipal election next succeeding the effective date of
the salary change.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.040 Salaries—Increase or decrease.
   A.   Following any new and later estimate of population made by the state
department of finance placing the city in a population group other than that
set forth in Section 2.04.020A., the salary payable to each member of the
council shall be increased or decreased in accordance with the amount
prescribed for that population group in Government Code Section 36516 et seq.
   B.   The salary payable to each member of the council may be otherwise
increased in accordance with the provisions of Government Code Section 36516 et
seq.
   C.   Any salary increase shall be enacted by amendment of this chapter. No
automatic future increases may be provided for, in accordance with Government
Code Section 36516(a)(4).
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.050 Other reimbursement.
   In addition to the salary prescribed in this chapter, members of the council
shall be eligible to be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the
performance of the council's duties in such amounts as may be approved by
resolution.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.060 Other benefits.
   In addition to the salary prescribed in this chapter, members of the council
shall be eligible to receive benefits such as retirement contributions, health
insurance, and life insurance, in such amounts as may be approved by
resolution.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.070 Salaries—Payment.
   Salary, expense reimbursement, and other benefits paid to members of the
council shall be payable at the same time and in the same manner as salaries
are paid to other officers and employees of the city.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.080 Meetings—Regular.
   The city council shall hold regular meetings, the time, date, and orders of
business for which shall be established by city council resolution. Regular
meetings may be cancelled by action of a majority of the council. If less than
a majority of members of the council are present at a regular meeting which has
not been cancelled in advance, a member of the council or a staff member may
declare the meeting to be adjourned.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.090 Meetings—Special.
   Special meetings may be called at any time by the mayor, or by three or more
members of the council, in accordance with Government Code Sections 54956
through 54956.5.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.100 Public meetings—Exception.
   A.   All regular and special meetings of the city council shall be public;
provided, however, the city council may hold closed sessions from which the
public may be excluded in accordance with Government Code Section 54950 et seq.
   B.   With the exception of actions taken in closed session that are required
by law to be publicly reported, no member of the council, employee of the city,
or any other person present during the closed session of the council shall
disclose to any person the content or substance of any discussion which took
place during the closed session, or disseminate documents or data provided
during the closed session, unless the city council shall authorize the
disclosure of such information by majority vote.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.110 Agenda.
   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents, or
other matters to be submitted to the council at a regular or special meeting
shall be delivered to the city clerk for review and conformance. The city clerk
shall prepare the agenda of all such matters under the direction of the city
manager or designee. The agenda and its posting shall conform to the
requirements of Government Code Section 54950 et seq.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.120 Council correspondence.
   A.   Correspondence to and from the city council and/or members of the
council shall be handled in accordance with an adopted administrative council
correspondence policy.
   B.   Correspondence or any other documentation received by at least a
majority of the members of the council relating to a matter subject to
consideration at an open meeting of the council shall be made a public record
in accordance with Section 54957.5 of the Government Code.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.130 Minutes—Preparation.
   A.   Meeting minutes shall be prepared for every meeting of the city
council. Minutes shall be prepared in action minute form and shall serve as a
legislative record of the proceedings. Summary or transcript minutes shall not
be prepared except in exceptional circumstances, subject to the determination
of the city clerk, or order of a majority of the council.
   B.   The city clerk shall have exclusive responsibility for the preparation
of the minutes, and any direction for change in the minutes shall be made only
by majority action of the city council.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.140 Minutes—Reading.
   Unless the reading of the minutes of a council meeting is ordered by a
majority vote of the council, such minutes may be approved without reading if
the city clerk has previously furnished each member of the council with a copy.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.150 Mayor as member of the council.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "member of the council" and
"members of the council" shall be deemed to include the mayor, unless otherwise
indicated.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.160 Presiding officer designated.
   The mayor shall be the presiding officer at all meetings of the city
council. In the absence of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore shall preside. In
the absence of both the mayor and the mayor pro tempore, the city clerk shall
call the council to order, whereupon a temporary presiding officer shall be
elected by the members of the council to serve until the arrival of the mayor
or mayor pro tempore, or until adjournment.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.170 Presiding officer—Powers and duties.
    A.   Participation. The presiding officer may move, second, debate, and
vote from the chair. The vote or other position of the presiding officer on any
matter shall have equal force and effect to that of any other member of the
council.
   B.   Seating arrangement for city council. The mayor shall, following each
election of members and at such other times as the mayor may deem it necessary,
establish a seating arrangement of the members of the city council. The mayor
pro tempore shall always be seated immediately to the mayor's right.
   C.   Question to be stated. The presiding officer shall verbally restate
each question (motion) immediately prior to the calling for the vote. Following
the vote, the city clerk shall announce whether the question carried or was
defeated, and the particulars of the vote. The presiding officer may publicly
explain the effect of a vote for the audience, or may direct a member of the
city staff to do so, before proceeding to the next item of business.
   D.   Signing of documents. The mayor shall sign all ordinances, resolutions,
and other documents necessitating mayoral signature which were adopted at a
council meeting, unless the mayor is unavailable for a period of time that
would cause undue administrative delay, in which case the signature of an
alternate presiding officer may be used.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.180 Rules of order designated.
   Where not provided in this chapter, other rules adopted by the city council,
or applicable provisions of state law, the procedures of the council shall be
governed by the latest revised edition of Rosenberg's Rules of Order.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.190 Failure to observe rules of order.
   Rules adopted to expedite the transaction of the business of the council in
an orderly fashion are deemed to be procedural only, and the failure to
strictly observe such rules shall not affect the jurisdiction of the council or
invalidate any action taken at a meeting that is otherwise held in conformity
with law.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.200 Addressing the council.
   A.   Manner of addressing the council. Each person desiring to address the
council shall approach to the microphone designated for public testimony, state
their name, address, and affiliation for the record if willing, state the
subject they wish to discuss, and unless further time is granted by the
presiding officer or a majority vote of the council, limit their remarks to
three minutes. All remarks shall be addressed to the council as a whole and not
to any member thereof. Questions posed to staff by members of the public shall
only be answered only at the discretion of the presiding officer.
   B.   Spokesperson for group. In order to expedite matters and to avoid
repetitious presentations, whenever any group of persons wishes to address the
council on the same subject matter, the presiding officer may request that a
spokesperson be chosen by the group to address the council and, in case
additional matters are to be presented by any other member of the group, to
limit the number of such persons addressing the council.
   C.   After motion. After a motion has been made or a public hearing has been
closed, no member of the public shall address the council from the audience on
the matter under consideration without first securing permission to do so from
the presiding officer.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.210 Rules and enforcement of decorum.
   A.   Members of council. While the council is in session, the members must
preserve order and decorum, and a member shall not unduly delay or interrupt
the proceedings of the council nor disturb any member while speaking or refuse
to obey the orders of the presiding officer.
   B.   Employees. Members of staff shall observe the same rules of order and
decorum as are applicable to the city council, to the greatest extent
practicable.
   C.   Sergeant-at-arms. The chief of police, or such member or members of the
police department as the chief may designate, shall be sergeant-at-arms of the
city council and shall carry out all orders given by the presiding officer for
the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at council meetings.
   D.   Persons addressing the council; members of the audience. Any person
causing undue disruption while addressing the council or seated in the audience
shall be called to order by the presiding officer, and if such conduct
continues, may at the discretion of the presiding officer or sergeant-at-arms
be removed from that meeting. Such person who refuses to be removed from a
meeting shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and placed under arrest.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.220 Participation and recusal.
   A.   Every member of the council present at a meeting when a question is put
shall vote unless the member recuses themselves from participation therein
because of a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest,
or unless the member is otherwise prohibited by law from participation.
   B.   In accordance with the provisions of the Political Reform Act, any
member of the council recusing themselves on grounds of conflict of interest,
or appearance thereof, must so declare at the time the agenda item is called,
identifying the nature of the conflict in accordance with Fair Political
Practices Commission regulation, and then shall remove themselves from the dais
prior to commencement of consideration of the item. Aside from the provisions
of Government Code Section 87105(a)(4) and Fair Political Practices Commission
Regulation 18707(a)(3)(c), the member shall return only once deliberation and
vote, if any, on the specific question is completed. Exception: if the matter
presenting the conflict is part of the consent calendar, the member may remain
seated at the dais, and vote upon the adoption of the consent calendar,
provided that the existence and nature of the conflict has been properly
declared. Any such members shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting as
having been recused for the item presenting a conflict.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.230 Tie vote.
   Tie votes shall be lost motions constituting no action, and may be
reconsidered in accordance with the latest revised edition of Rosenberg's Rules
of Order.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.240 Reconsideration.
   A motion to reconsider any action taken by the council may be made in
accordance with the latest revised edition of Rosenberg's Rules of Order.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.250 Ordinances.
   A.   All ordinances shall be initiated by or with the concurrence of the
city manager or designee, or by majority vote of the city council. The city
attorney may also, with majority council concurrence, initiate an ordinance for
council consideration.
   B.   Ordinances shall be prepared by or in cooperation with the city
attorney, who shall review and approve each ordinance as to form and legality
prior to consideration by the council.
   C.   Ordinances shall, prior to consideration by the council, be reviewed by
the city clerk and conformed at a minimum for formatting, technical accuracy,
and placement within the city's municipal code framework.
   D.   Ordinances shall, prior to consideration by the council, be reviewed
and approved by the city manager or designee as to their administrative impact.
   E.   At the time of introduction or adoption of any ordinance, the ordinance
shall be read in title only, unless there is consensus among the city council
to have the ordinance read in full, in which case the reading shall be
conducted by either the city clerk or city attorney prior to action being
taken.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.260 Resolutions.
   A.   Resolutions pertaining to appeal proceedings, claims or litigation, the
creation of new policies, the approval of contracts in non-standard formats,
and other matters which may involve potential liability or other legal exposure
for the city, shall, before consideration by the council, be individually
approved as to form and legality by the city attorney.
   B.   Resolutions pertaining to the creation or amendment of the city budget,
the transfer, appropriation, expenditure, acceptance, or other treatment of
funds, or procurement or disbursement of assets shall, before consideration by
the council, be individually approved and conformed as necessary by the city
treasurer.
   C.   Resolutions shall, prior to consideration by the council, be reviewed
and approved by the city manager or designee as to their administrative impact.
   D.   At the time of adoption of any resolution, the resolution shall be read
in title only, unless there is consensus among the city council to have the
resolution read in full, in which case the reading shall be conducted by either
the city clerk or city attorney prior to action being taken.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.270 Contracts.
   A.   Contracts shall be presented for city council approval as provided in
Chapter 3.08 Purchasing, in the city's adopted purchasing policy, or other
applicable regulation.
   B.   Whether or not requiring council approval, all contract documents,
including contract amendments, with the cumulative value of twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000) or more across all contract years shall be
individually approved as to form and legality by the city attorney prior to
execution of the contract, and if council approval is required, prior to
consideration by the council.
   C.   All contracts requiring council approval shall, prior to consideration
by the council, be reviewed and approved by the city manager or designee as to
their administrative impact.
(Ord. O-2020-001, § 2 (part), 2020)
2.04.280 Mayor and City Council Member Interim Succession.
   A.   Mayoral Succession. In the event the Mayor of the city is unable, for
any period of time, to perform the duties of office due to absence, incapacity,
or death:
   1.   The following officers of the city shall succeed the Mayor,
respectively, in responsibility for performance of the Mayor's duties, until
such time that either 1) the Mayor returns to duty or 2) a Mayor is elected or
appointed in accordance with the laws of the state of California, whichever
occurs first.
   a.   First successor: Mayor Pro Tempore
   b.   Second successor: City Council Member (longest-serving)
   c.   Third successor: City Council Member (second-longest serving)
   d.   Fourth successor: City Council Member (third-longest serving)
   e.   Fifth successor: Planning Commission Chair
   f.   Sixth successor: Planning Commission Vice-Chair
   g.   Seventh successor: Another official appointed in accordance with the
provisions of Section 8644 of the California Government Code.
   2.   This interim officer shall be designated the "Acting Mayor," with the
exception of the Mayor Pro Tempore, who shall retain that title.
   B.   City Council Member Succession. In the event a quorum or other
necessary majority of the Members of the City Council, inclusive of the Mayor
and Mayor Pro Tempore, are unable, for any period of time, to perform the
duties of office due to absence, incapacity, or death:
   1.   The following officers of the city shall succeed the Council Member(s),
respectively, in responsibility for performance of the duties of the Council
Member(s), until such time that either 1) a quorum or other necessary majority
of the City Council returns to duty or 2) a sufficient number of Council Member
(s) are elected or appointed in accordance with the laws of the state of
California, whichever occurs first.
   a.   First successor: Planning Commission Chair
   b.   Second successor: Planning Commission Vice-Chair
   c.   Third successor: Planning Commissioner (longest-serving)
   d.   Fourth successor: Planning Commissioner (second longest-serving)
   e.   Fifth successor: Planning Commissioner (third longest-serving)
   f.   Sixth successor: Another official appointed in accordance with the
provisions of Section 8644 of the California Government Code.
   2.    This interim officer shall be designated the "Acting Council Member."
   3.   Only the minimum number of interim officers necessary to restore a
quorum or other necessary majority of the City Council shall be appointed.
   C.   In the event two or more serving City Council Members or Planning
Commissioners are of equal tenure, succession for the purposes of subsection A.
and subsection B. above, respectively, shall be determined either by mutual
agreement among the equally tenured members, or if no mutual agreement can be
reached, by a coin toss or other randomized method to be determined and
performed by the City Clerk or designee.
   D.   The acting officials designated in accordance with this section shall
exercise all powers and carry out all duties of the office held on an acting
basis, except as may otherwise be prescribed by the laws of the city or the
state of California.
   E.   Any official performing the duties of Mayor or City Council Member on
an acting basis shall not be eligible to receive the salary and benefits
available to those formally elected or appointed to the position.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as attempting to supersede,
abridge, or expand the powers and duties of acting public officials in any
manner that conflicts with city, state, or federal law.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 3, 2025)
Chapter 2.08 CITY MANAGER
2.08.010 Office created.
   There is created in the service of the city the position of city manager.
The city manager shall be a person selected by the council solely on the basis
of his executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to
his actual experience in and knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the
duties of his office as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 95-07 § 2 (part),
1995; prior code § 2.08.010)
2.08.020 Eligibility of councilmembers.
   No person elected to membership on the council shall be eligible for
appointment as city manager until one year has elapsed after he has ceased to
be a member of the council. (Ord. 95-07 § 2 (part), 1995; prior code §
2.08.020)
2.08.030 Appointment, tenure and removal.
   The city manager shall be appointed by the council and shall hold office for
and during the pleasure of the council. Removal of the city manager shall be
only by a vote of at least three members of the council and shall be subject to
the following provisions:
   A.   At any meeting where the question of retention or removal of the city
manager is considered, the city manager shall have the right to present such
evidence in his own behalf as he may desire; but the council shall use its
uncontrolled discretion in making the decision, and its action shall be final
and shall not depend on any particular showing or degree of proof.
   B.   The city manager shall notify the council at least thirty days in
advance of intended resignation. Failure to do so may be grounds for
withholding any payments due him for his services. This provision may be waived
by a majority vote of council. (Ord. 97-07 § 2, 1997)
2.08.040 Compensation and expenses.
   A.   The city manager shall receive such compensation and expense allowances
as the council shall, from time to time, determine, and said compensation and
expenses shall be a proper charge against such funds of the city as the council
shall designate.
   B.   The city manager shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily incurred
or paid by him in the performance of his duties, or incurred when travelling on
business pertaining to the city under direction of or within the express
consent of the council; reimbursement shall be made only in accordance with an
itemized claim setting forth the sums expended or obligations incurred in the
manner provided by the council for the presentation of claims for reimbursement
of expenses of other city officers and employees. (Ord. 95-07 § 2 (part), 1995;
prior code § 2.08.040)
2.08.050 Powers and duties.
   The city manager shall be the administrative head of the government of the
city, under the direction and control of the council. He shall be responsible
for the efficient administration of all of the affairs of the city which are
under his control. In addition to his general powers as administrative head,
and not as a limitation thereon, it shall be his duty, and he shall have the
power:
   A.   General Supervision. To execute on behalf of the council its
administrative supervision and control of such affairs of the city as may be
placed in his charge, or which are not otherwise provided for by the council;
   B.   Personnel and Organization. In the City Manager's duties as personnel
officer, to appoint competent, qualified officers and employees to the
administrative service and department head employees (which terms together are
inclusive of all positions excepting the city attorney) and to dismiss,
suspend, and discipline such officers and employees in accordance with such
policies as may from time to time be set forth by the council, provided,
however, the power to appoint or terminate department head employees, including
but not limited to the assistant city manager, city treasurer/administrative
services director, chief of police, fire chief, community development director,
and public works director, shall only be effective upon confirmation by the
council; to transfer employees from one department to another, consistent with
the policies of the council; to recommend to the council such reorganization of
officers, departments or divisions as may be indicated in the interest of
efficient, effective, and economical conduct of the city's business, and to
effect such reorganization when authorized by appropriate ordinance, resolution
or motion of the council;
   C.   Authority Over Officers and Employees. To control, order, give
directions to and to ensure the cooperation of all heads of departments and to
subordinate officers and employees of the city under his jurisdiction through
their department heads;
   D.   Custodian of City Property.
   1.   To immediately upon taking office, and annually thereafter, inventory
and appraise the value of all real estate, buildings, furnishings and fixtures,
supplies and movable property of every kind and nature belonging to the city;
and to require each officer or department head to inventory the same or any
portion thereof and maintain a perpetual inventory. One copy of such annual
inventory shall be filed with the council and one with the city clerk,
   2.   To act as and be custodian of all city property, custody of which has
not otherwise been provided for;
   E.   Shift Work. To temporarily direct any department or division of the
city to perform work for any other department, division or office of the city,
unless otherwise precluded by law;
   F.   Compensation Plan. To prepare and to recommend to the council from time
to time desirable revisions of the compensation plan of the city;
   G.   Aid Council. To attend meetings of the council and to report upon and
discuss any matter concerning the affairs of the departments, services or
activities under his supervision upon which, in his judgment, the council
should be informed, or upon which his views or opinions are requested by the
council.
   It is not intended by this section to restrict unduly the privilege of any
department head or other employee from addressing the council directly,
provided that said party first directs the issue to the city manager;
   H.   Carry Out Council Decisions. To carry out on behalf of the council its
policies, rules, regulations and ordinances relating to the administration of
the affairs of the city, its departments, divisions and services;
   I.   Budget. To supervise the preparation of a detailed proposed municipal
budget, and submit the same to the council before the fifteenth day of May each
year, and to offer his recommendations as to such increases, decreases,
cancellations, transfers or changes in any of the items included in said
proposed budget as in his judgment should be made before adoption of the final
budget; to be responsible for the administration of the budget after its final
adoption; to keep the council informed with respect thereto and to make such
recommendations to the council or board of equalization regarding the annual
assessment roll as he may deem advisable;
   J.   Purchasing. As agent for the council, to exercise the power of approval
or rejection of expenditures for all
departments, divisions, services and offices of the city government, in
accordance with the municipal budget adopted by the council, or to designate
some other officer or employee of the city to so act;
   K.   Public Improvements. To develop and organize public improvement
projects and programs, and to aid and assist the council and the various
departments, services and offices of the city in carrying the same through to a
successful conclusion;
   L.   Recommendations to Council. To recommend to the council for adoption
such measures and ordinances as he deems necessary or expedient;
   M.   Studies and Reports. To make such surveys, studies, reports and
recommendations as he may deem desirable on any matter affecting the interest
of the people or city as may be requested by the council;
   N.   Council Agenda. To prepare the agenda for all regular, special or
adjourned meetings of the council, in accordance with the ordinances
establishing rules for the council;
   O.   Other City Offices. To serve in any appointed office within the city
government to which he may be qualified, when appointed thereto by the council
and to hold and perform the duties thereof at the pleasure of the council and
without further compensation except as expressly provided by the council at the
time of such appointment or thereafter;
   P.   Mail. To receive and open all mail addressed wholly or in part to the
council, the mayor, or mayor pro tem by title only, and not by rank, and to
give immediate attention thereto, to the end that all administrative business
referred to in such communications and not necessarily requiring action by the
council may be disposed of in an expeditious manner; provided, that all actions
taken pursuant to such communications shall be reported to the council at its
next regular meeting thereafter, or by separate communication to each member of
the council. All personal mail shall be deposited in the appropriate box date-
stamped, but unopened;
   Q.   Enforcement of Laws. To see to the enforcement within the city of the
laws of the state, and of all laws and ordinances of the city;
   R.   Contracts, Franchises, Etc. To investigate and see to the faithful
performance and observation of all contracts of the city, and of all
franchises, permits, licenses and privileges granted by the city and to report
any and all violations to the council;
   S.   Citizen Complaints. To investigate all complaints in relation to
matters concerning the administration of the city government; to adjust all
proper grievances within the scope of authority provided by the city laws and
policies, and to report to the council all injustices suffered by reason of
defects or omissions in the laws, policies or practices of the city which he is
not authorized to rectify;
   T.   Public Property. To exercise general supervision over all public
buildings, public parks and other public property which are under the control
and jurisdiction of the council, when the general supervision thereof is not
specifically delegated to a particular officer; and to exercise general
supervision over all privately owned public utilities operated within the city
so far as the same are subject to municipal control;
   U.   Community Relations. To explain to the public the actions, purposes and
policies of the city government;
   V.   Community Projects. To cooperate within lawful limits with all
community organizations whose aim and purpose it is, in whole or in part, to
advance the spiritual and material interests of the city and its people, and to
provide them, within lawful limits, with assistance in such aim and purpose
through the city government;
   W.   Contracts. To execute in the name of the council and the city, any
contract authorized or approved by the council, unless the council shall
expressly provide for another manner of execution of such contract;
   X.   Appearance Before Subordinate Agencies. To appear before and address
any commission or agency appointed by the council whenever he deems it
advisable and whenever the interests of the city so require;
   Y.   Other Duties and Powers. To perform such other duties and exercise such
other powers as are necessarily incident to the above powers or as may be
assigned or delegated to him from time to time by action of the council. (Ord.
O-2025-002 § 4, 2025; Ord. 02-08, 2002; Ord. 95-07 § 2 (part), 1995; prior code
§ 2.08.050)
2.08.060 Relationship between council and administrative services.
   A.   The council and its members shall deal with the administrative services
of the city only through the city manager, except for the purpose of inquiry,
and neither the council, nor any member thereof, shall give orders to any
officer or employee of the city under the supervision of the city manager. The
city manager shall take his orders and instructions only from the council as a
body, and no individual member of the council shall give any orders or
instructions to the city manager. Any subordinate officer or employee receiving
orders or instructions contrary to this section shall report the same in
writing immediately thereafter to the city manager, and the city manager shall
promptly forward a copy or summary of such report to each member of the
council. He shall likewise promptly advise each member of the council of any
orders or instructions received by him contrary to this section.
   B.   It is not intended by this section to restrict unduly the privilege of
a member of the council of requesting of the city manager, but not of any other
officer or employee under his supervision, to prepare a report dealing with
city business or municipal affairs, if such report can be compiled without
undue dislocation of city activities and without the expenditure of
considerable quantities of time by city personnel. (Ord. 95-07 § 2 (part),
1995; prior code § 2.08.060)
2.08.070 Limitations.
   The city manager shall not attempt to establish general policy which it is
the province of the council to determine, nor shall he attempt to commit or
bind the council, or any member thereof, to any action, plan or program
requiring official council action. It is not intended by this chapter to grant
any authority to, or impose any duty upon the city manager which is now or may
hereafter be vested in or imposed by general state law on any other city
commission, department, officer or employee. (Ord. 95-07 § 2 (part), 1995;
prior code § 2.08.070)
2.08.080 Standards of performance.
   In the discharge of his duties as city manager, the person holding such
position shall endeavor at all times to exercise the highest degree of tact,
patience and courtesy in his contacts with the public, with the council and
with all city commissions, boards, departments, officers and employees, and
shall use his best efforts to establish and maintain a harmonious relationship
among all personnel employed in the government of the city, to the end that the
highest possible standards of public service shall be continuously maintained.
(Ord. 95-07 § 2 (part), 1995; prior code § 2.08.080)
2.08.090 (Reserved)
2.08.100 Absence and succession.
   A.   In order to provide for the performance of the city manager's duties
during a temporary absence or disability, the city manager shall designate in
writing a qualified officer of the city to so act, to be known as the "acting
city manager." In the event of failure or inability of the city manager to make
such designation, the following officers of the city shall succeed the city
manager, respectively, in responsibility for performance of the city manager's
duties, until such time that either 1) the city manager returns to duty or 2)
the city council has appointed another acting, interim, or permanent city
manager, whichever occurs first.
   1.   First successor: Assistant City Manager/Management Services Director
   2.   Second successor: Police Chief
   3.   Third successor: Public Works Director
   4.   Fourth successor: Community Development Director
   5.   Fifth successor: Administrative Services Director
   6.   Sixth successor: Tourism and Events Director
   B.   The acting or interim city manager designated in accordance with this
section to act during the absence or disability of the city manager shall
exercise all powers and carry out all duties of the city manager, excepting
that no officer or employee of the city shall be appointed, removed, promoted,
demoted, suspended, or otherwise disciplined by the acting city manager without
the prior approval of the city council. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 5, 2025; Ord. O-
2020-001, § 3, 2020)
Chapter 2.12 DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
2.12.010 Office created.
   There is created and established within the government of the city the
office of director of finance which shall be subject to the general
administrative direction of the city administrator. (Prior code § 2.12.010)
2.12.020 Duties.
   The director of finance has the following duties and responsibilities, to
   A.   Maintain and operate the general accounting system of the city and of
each of the respective divisions and services of the city;
   B.   Perform such accounting functions and duties in accordance with the
latest and most modern accounting methods as the science of accounting
progresses;
   C.   Maintain, or to prescribe and require the maintaining of inventory
records of municipal properties necessary in accordance with modern municipal
accounting practices;
   D.   Perform the functions and duties relating to the administration and
collection of taxes, licenses and permit fees levied by the city;
   E.   Perform the duties relating to preparing, auditing, presenting, and
disbursing claims and demands against the city, including payrolls;
   F.   Assist in the purchase of supplies, goods, wares, merchandise,
equipment and materials required by the city;
   G.   Assist in the preparation of the annual budget and in the
administration of the budget; and
   H.   Cooperate with the treasurer and other officials of the city in
establishing and maintaining sufficient and satisfactory procedures and
controls over municipal revenues and expenditures in all department, divisions
and services of the city in accordance with modern municipal accounting
practice. (Prior code § 2.12.020)
2.12.030 Report preparation.
   The director of finance shall prepare and present to the council in
sufficient detail to show the exact financial condition of the city, the
following reports:
   A.   A quarterly or more frequently, as requested, statement of all
receipts, disbursements and balance of the city;
   B.   An annual statement of report of the financial condition of the city;
and
   C.   Such other financial reports as the council or city administrator shall
direct. (Prior code § 2.12.030)
2.12.040 Additional duties.
   The director of finance shall perform other additional duties and functions
which the council or city administrator shall prescribe. (Prior code §
2.12.040)
2.12.050 Fiscal duties of city clerk transferred.
   In accordance with Sections 37209 and 40805.5 of the Government Code, the
duties imposed upon the city clerk by Sections 37201 through 37208 and the
financial and accounting duties imposed upon the city clerk by Sections 40902
through 40805 are transferred to the director of finance. (Prior code §
2.12.050)
2.12.060 Appointment.
   The position of director of finance is created and established, and the
position shall be filled by appointment of and shall serve at the pleasure of
the council. The director of finance shall be fully responsible for all
functions, duties and responsibilities of the office of director of finance as
prescribed in this chapter and as established by state law, ordinance or
resolution. (Prior code § 2.12.060)
2.12.070 Appointment of deputies.
   With the consent of the city administrator, the director of finance may
appoint one or more deputy directors of finance. Each deputy director shall
perform the duties prescribed by the director and the city administrator.
(Prior code § 2.12.070)
Chapter 2.18 QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADVISORY BODY SERVICE
2.18.010 Automatic disqualification.
   Any person convicted of a felony shall be ineligible to serve on any board
or commission of the city. In the event that a member of a board or commission
is convicted of a felony, or such prior conviction is discovered, during the
member's term of office, the conviction shall serve to terminate the member's
appointment to the board or commission and the vacancy may be filled either
immediately or during the next routine recruitment for the position, at the
council's discretion. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 6 (part), 2025)
2.18.020 Additional qualifications.
   In addition to required qualifications for City Planning Commissioners set
forth in Section 2.20.020 of this Code, qualifications for service on the
Planning Commission and other appointed City advisory bodies shall be as
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. O-2025-
002 § 6 (part), 2025)
Chapter 2.20 PLANNING COMMISSION
2.20.010 Established.
   There is established by the city council a planning commission in accordance
with applicable laws of the state.
(Prior code § 2.20.010) (Ord. O-2017-004 § 1, 2017)
2.20.020 Membership.
   The planning commission shall consist of five members, not officials of the
city, appointed by the city council from the residents of the city.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 9, 2021: Ord. O-2017-004 § 1, 2017: Ord. O-2016-002 § 1,
2016: Ord. O-2011-005 § 1, 2011: Ord. 2000-02 § 1, 2000: Ord. 96-11 § 1, 1996:
Ord. 95-01 § 1, 1995: Ord. 91-01 § 1, 1991: prior code § 2.20.020)
2.20.030 Term of office.
   The full term of office for each member of the planning commission shall be
for two years.
(Ord. O-2017-004 § 1, 2017; Ord. 04-05 § 1, 2004: Ord. 91-01 § 2, 1991; Ord.
89-02 § 1, 1989: prior code § 2.20.030)
2.20.040 Removal.
   The city council may remove any member of the planning commission prior to
the expiration of the member's term of office with or without cause, providing
all members of the city council are present and a majority vote of the council
is received to do so.
(Ord. O-2017-004 § 1, 2017; Ord. 96-11 § 2, 1996: prior code § 2.20.040)
2.20.050 Policies regulating commission.
   The city council shall from time to time establish by resolution the meeting
schedule, duties, and procedural rules for the planning commission.
(Prior code § 2.20.050) (Ord. O-2017-004 § 1, 2017)
Chapter 2.30 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
2.30.010 Organization.
   The industrial development authority of the City, which is established by
the California Industrial Development Financing Act, is hereby declared
organized and shall function under the name "Pismo Beach Industrial Development
Authority." (Ord. O-2017-002 (part), 2017)
2.30.020 Powers and authority.
   The Industrial Development Authority shall be authorized to transact
business and exercise all of the powers and other authority conferred upon
industrial development authorities by the California Industrial Development
Financing Act. (Ord. O-2017-002 (part), 2017)
2.30.030 Jurisdiction.
   The jurisdiction of the Industrial Development Authority to undertake
projects shall be coincident as to territory with the territory of the City.
(Ord. O-2017-002 (part), 2017)
Chapter 2.32 EMERGENCY SERVICES
2.32.010 Purpose.
   The declared purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the safety of persons and property within the city in
the event of a disaster and to provide for the coordination of the emergency
services and disaster functions of this city with all other public agencies and
affected private persons, corporations, and organizations, for the express
purpose of the protection of the health, safety, and property of persons within
the city and the preservation of peace and order. (Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.020 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in this section
shall have the following meanings:
   "Emergency" means the actual or threatened conditions of disaster or extreme
peril to the health and safety of persons and property within this city due to
an actual or threatened enemy attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood,
storm, epidemic, riot, earthquake or other similar calamity which conditions
are or are likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel,
equipment, and facilities of the city, requiring the combined forces of other
political subdivisions to combat.
   "Emergency services" means the preparation for and carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from any emergency. It does not include, nor does any provision of
this chapter apply to, any condition relating to a labor controversy. (Ord. 04-
06 (part), 2004)
2.32.030 Emergency services committee—Membership.
   The city of Pismo Beach emergency services committee is created and shall
consist of the following:
   A.   The mayor, who shall be the chairperson of the emergency services
committee;
   B.   The city manager, who shall be the director of emergency services,
shall be the vice-chairperson, and shall develop emergency services and
disaster plans and organize the program for the city, and shall have such other
duties as may be assigned;
   C.   An emergency services coordinator, who shall be the assistant director
of emergency services, who is responsible for plan updates and other duties;
   D.   Such chiefs of emergency services and departments, services or
divisions as are provided for by resolution pursuant to this chapter;
   E.   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, and veterans,
professional or other organizations having an official group or organization of
emergency service of disaster responsibility as may be appointed by the
director of emergency services with the advice and consent of the city council.
(Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.040 Emergency services committee—Powers and duties.
   It shall be the duty of the city emergency services committee, and it is
empowered, to review and recommend for adoption by the city council, emergency
services and mutual aid plans and agreements, and such ordinances and
resolutions and rules and regulations as are necessary to implement such plans
and agreements. The emergency services committee shall meet upon call of the
chairman or, in his or her absence from the city or inability to call such
meeting, upon the call of the vice-chairperson. (Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.050 Director of emergency services—Powers and duties.
   The city manager shall be the director of emergency services and is
empowered:
   A.   To request the city council to proclaim the existence, or threatened
existence of a disaster and the termination thereof if the city council is in
session or to issue such proclamation if the city council is not in session,
such action to be confirmed by the city council at the earliest practicable
time;
   B.   To request the governor to proclaim a state of emergency when, in the
opinion of the director, the resources of the area or region are inadequate to
cope with the disaster;
   C.   To control and direct the effort of the emergency services organization
of the city for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter;
   D.   To direct coordination and cooperation between divisions, services, and
staff of the emergency services committee of this city, and to resolve
questions of authority and responsibility that may arise between them;
   E.   To represent the emergency services committee of this city in all
dealings with the public or private agencies pertaining to emergencies and
emergency services as defined herein. (Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.050
2.32.060 Proclamation of disaster—Powers and duties of the director and
assistant director of emergency services.
   In the event of the proclamation of a disaster as herein provided, or the
proclamation of a state of emergency by the governor or the state director of
emergency services, or the existence of a state of war emergency, the city
director of emergency services is empowered:
   A.   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably related
to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency; provided,
however, such rules and regulations must be,confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the city council;
   B.   To obtain vital supplies, equipment, and such other properties found
lacking and needed for the protection of life and property of the people, and
bind the city for the fair value thereof, and if required immediately, to
commandeer the same for public use;
   C.   To require emergency services of any city officer or employee and, in
the event of the proclamation of a state of extreme emergency by the governor
in the county or the existence of a state of war emergency, to command the aid
of as many citizens of this community as thought necessary in the execution of
his or her duties; such persons shall be entitled to all privileges, benefits,
and immunities as are provided by law for registered emergency services workers
and volunteers;
   D.   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any city department
or agency;
   E.   To execute all of his or her ordinary powers as city manager, all of
the special powers conferred upon him or her by this chapter or by resolution
adopted pursuant thereto, all powers conferred upon him or her by any statute,
agreement approved by the city council, or by any other lawful authority, and
in conformity with Section 38791 of the Government Code, to exercise complete
authority over the city and to exercise all police power vested in the city by
the Constitution and general laws;
   F.   The assistant director of emergency services shall, under the
supervision of the director and with the assistance of emergency service
chiefs, develop emergency plans and manage the emergency programs of the city
and shall have such other powers and duties as may be assigned by the director.
(Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.070 Emergency services organization—Designated.
   All officers and employees of this city, together with those volunteer
forces enrolled to aid them during a disaster, and all groups, organizations,
and persons, including persons commandeered under the provisions of Section
2.36.060 C, who may by agreement or operations of laws, be charged with duties
incident to the protection of life and property in this city during such
emergency, shall constitute the emergency services organization of the city.
(Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.080 Emergency services committee—Organization.
   A.   The functions and duties of the city emergency services committee shall
be distributed among such divisions, services and special staff as the city
council shall prescribe by resolution.
   B.   The city council shall concurrently with the adoption of this chapter,
adopt a resolution setting forth the form or organization establishment and
designation of divisions and services, the assignment of functions, duties and
powers, the designation of officers and employees. Insofar as possible, the
form of organization, titles and terminology shall conform to the
recommendations of the federal government and the emergency services agency of
the state. (Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.090 Emergency plan.
   The emergency services committee shall be responsible for the development of
the city emergency operating plan, which plan shall provide for the effective
mobilization of all of the resources of this city, both public and private, to
meet any condition constituting a local emergency, state of emergency, or state
of war emergency; and shall provide for the organization, powers and duties,
services, and staff of the emergency organization. Such plan shall take effect
upon adoption by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.100 Expenditures.
   Any expenditure made in connection with such emergency services and
emergency activities, including mutual aid activities, shall be deemed
conclusively to be for the direct protection and benefit of the inhabitants and
property of the city. (Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
2.32.110 Violation—Penalty.
   It is a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both, for any person
during an emergency:
   A.   Wilfully to obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
services organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation
issued pursuant to this chapter or in the performance of any duty imposed upon
him or her by virtue of this chapter;
   B.   To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued
pursuant to this chapter, if such act is of such a nature as to give, or be
likely to give assistance to the enemy, or to imperil the lives or property of
inhabitants of this city, or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or
protection thereof;
   C.   To wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the emergency services committee of the state or of
the city. (Ord. 04-06 (part), 2004)
Chapter 2.36 PEACE OFFICER STANDARDS AND TRAINING
2.36.010 State standards adopted.
   The council declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the
state under the provisions of Chapter 1 of Title 4, Part 4 of the California
Penal Code. (Prior code § 2.28.010)
2.36.020 State recruitment and training standards adopted.
   Pursuant to Section 13522 of Chapter 1 of Title 4, Part 4 of the California
Penal Code, the city, while receiving aid from the state pursuant to said
Chapter 1 will adhere to the standards for recruitment and training established
by the California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training. (Prior
code § 2.28.020)
Chapter 2.40 PERSONNEL SYSTEM
2.40.010 Adoption.
   In order to establish an equitable and uniform procedure for dealing with
personnel matters, to attract to municipal service the best and most competent
persons available, to assure that appointments and promotions of employees will
be based on merit and fitness, and to provide a reasonable degree of security
for qualified employees, the personnel system set out in this chapter is
adopted. (Prior code § 2.40.010)
2.40.020 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as indicated:
   "Appointing power" means the officers of the city, who, in their individual
capacities or as a board, commission or city council, have the final authority
to make the appointment to the position to be filled.
   "Class" means positions sufficiently similar in duties, authority and
responsibility to permit grouping under a common title in the application with
equity of common standards of selection, transfer, demotion and salary.
   "Competitive service" means all positions of employment in the service of
the city except those specifically excluded by this chapter.
   "Days" means calendar days unless otherwise stated.
   "Demotion" means the movement of an employee from one class to another class
having a lower maximum rate of pay.
   "Employment list" means a list of names of persons who may be considered for
employment with the city under specified conditions.
   "Examination" means selection techniques used to measure the relative
capacities of the persons applying for the positions within the competitive
service.
   "Layoff" means the separation of employees from the active work force due to
lack of work or funds, or to the abolition of positions by the city council for
the above reasons or due to organizational changes.
   "Position" means a group of duties and responsibilities in the competitive
service requiring the full-time or part-time employment of one person.
   "Probationary period" means a working test period during which an employee
is required to demonstrate his fitness for the position to which he is
appointed by actual performance of the duties of the position.
   "Promotion" means the movement of an employee from one class to another
class having a higher maximum rate of pay.
   "Provisional appointment" means an appointment of a person who possesses the
minimum qualifications established for a particular class and who has been
appointed to a position in that class in the absence of available eligibles.
   "Reinstatement" means the reemployment, without examination, of a former
regular employee or probationary employee.
   "Suspension" means the temporary separation from the service of an employee,
without pay, for disciplinary purposes.
   "Transfer" means a change of an employee from one position to another
position in the same class or in a comparable class. (Prior code § 2.40.020)
2.40.030 Personnel officer—Powers and duties.
   The city administrator shall be the personnel officer. The city
administrator may delegate any of the powers and duties conferred upon him as
personnel officer under this chapter to any other officer or employee of the
city or may recommend that such powers and duties be performed under contract
as provided in Section
2.40.200. The personnel officer shall:
   A.   Administer all the provisions of this chapter and of the personnel
rules not specifically reserved to the city council;
   B.   Prepare and recommend to the city council personnel rules and revisions
and amendments to such rules;
   C.   Prepare or cause to be prepared a position classification plan,
including class specifications and revisions of the plan. The plan and any
revisions thereof shall become effective upon approval by the city council;
   D.   Provide for the publishing or posting of notices of tests for positions
in the competitive service; the receiving of applications therefor; the
conducting and grading of tests; the certification to the appointing power of a
list of all persons eligible for appointment to the appropriate position in the
competitive service. (Prior code § 2.40.030)
2.40.040 Exceptions to chapter provisions.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all offices, positions and
employments in the service of the city, except:
   A.   The city administrator and his assistants;
   B.   Elective officers;
   C.   Members of appointive boards, commission and committees;
   D.   The city clerk;
   E.   Chief of police, fire chief, community development director, public
works director/city engineer, administrative services director/treasurer,
management services director, chief building official, and tourism and events
director;
   F.   Persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional,
technical or any other services;
   G.   Volunteer personnel, such as volunteer firemen and reserve police;
   H.   The city attorney;
   I.   Emergency employees who are hired to meet the immediate requirements of
an emergency condition, such as extraordinary fire, flood or earthquake which
threatens life or property;
   J.   Employees, other than those listed elsewhere in this section, who are
not regularly employed in permanent positions.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 10, 2021: Ord. O-2016-004 § 4, 2016; prior code § 2.40.040)
2.40.050 Adoption and amendment of personnel rules.
   Personnel rules shall be adopted by resolution of the city council after
notice of such action has been publicly posted in at least three public places
designated by the city council and at least five days prior to city council
consideration. The personnel officer shall give reasonable written notice to
each recognized employee organization affected by the ordinance, rule,
resolution or regulation or amendment thereof proposed to be adopted by the
city council (optional if not within the scope of representation). Amendments
and revisions may be suggested by any interested party and shall be processed
as provided in the personnel rules. The rules shall establish regulations
governing the personnel system including:
   A.   Preparation, installation, revision and maintenance of a position
classification plan covering all positions in the competitive service,
including employment standards and qualifications for each class;
   B.   Public announcement of all tests and acceptance of applications for
employment;
   C.   Preparation and conduct of tests and the establishment and use of
resulting employment lists containing names of persons eligible for
appointment;
   D.   Certification and appointment of persons from employment lists and
making of provisional appointments;
   E.   Establishment of probationary periods;
   F.   Evaluation of employees during the probationary period;
   G.   Transfer, promotion, demotion, reinstatement, disciplinary action and
layoff of employees in the competitive service;
   H.   Separation of employees from the city service;
   I.   The establishment of adequate personnel records;
   J.   The establishment of appeal procedures concerning the interpretation or
application of this chapter and rules adopted hereunder. (Prior code §
2.40.050)
2.40.060 Appointments and promotions—Selection procedures.
   Appointments to vacant positions in the competitive service shall be made in
accordance with the personnel rules. Appointments and promotions shall be based
on merit and fitness to be ascertained so far as practicable by competitive
examination. Examinations may be used and conducted to aid in the selection of
qualified employees and shall consist of selection techniques which will test
fairly the qualifications of candidates such as achievement and aptitude tests,
written test, personal interview, performance tests, physical agility tests,
evaluation of daily work performance, work samples or any combination of these
or other tests. The probationary period shall be considered an extension of the
examination process. Physical and medical tests may be given as a part of any
examination. In any examination the personnel officer may include, in addition
to competitive tests, a qualifying test or tests and set minimum standards
therefor. (Prior code § 2.40.060)
2.40.070 Appointments—Authority.
   Appointments shall be made by the city council or by the officer in whom the
power to make appointments is vested. (Prior code § 2.40.070)
2.40.080 Appointments—Vacancy filling.
   When appointment is to be made to a vacancy in the competitive service, the
personnel officer shall transmit to the appointing power the names of all
persons on the appropriate certified employment list in the order in which they
appear on the list. (Prior code § 2.40.080)
2.40.090 Probationary period.
   A.   All regular appointments, including promotional appointments, shall be
for a probationary period of not less than six months. During the probationary
period, the employee may be rejected at any time without the right of appeal or
hearing.
   B.   An employee rejected during the probationary period from a position to
which he has been promoted shall be reinstated to a position in the class from
which he was promoted unless he is discharged from the city service as provided
in this chapter and the rules.
   C.   An employee in the competitive service promoted or transferred to a
position not included in the competitive service shall be reinstated to a
position in the class from which he was promoted or transferred if action is
taken to reject him unless he is discharged in the manner provided in this
chapter and the personnel rules for positions in the competitive service.
(Prior code § 2.40.090)
2.40.100 Duration of probationary period.
   All original and promotional appointees to positions in the competitive
service shall serve a probationary period of no less than six months, excepting
public safety officers and public safety dispatchers who shall serve one year.
Should the department head and appointing authority determine that a longer
period of probation be required, the appointee shall be informed in writing of
the amount of extension and reasons therefor. (Ord. 88-19 § 1, 1988: prior code
§ 2.28.030)
2.40.110 Status of present employees.
   A.   Any person holding a position included in the competitive service, who,
on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, has served
continuously in such position or in some other position in the competitive
service for a period equal to the probationary period prescribed in the rules
for his class, shall assume regular status in the competitive service in the
position held on such effective date without qualifying test and shall
thereafter be subject in all respects to the provisions of this chapter and the
personnel rules.
   B.   Any other persons holding positions in the competitive service shall be
regarded as probationers who are serving out the balance of their probationary
periods as prescribed in the rules before obtaining regular status. The
probationary period shall be computed from the date of appointment or
employment. (Prior code § 2.40.100)
2.40.120 Attendance and leaves—Applicability.
   The provisions of the personnel rules relating to attendance and leaves
shall apply to the incumbents of full-time exempt positions unless otherwise
specified. (Prior code § 2.40.110)
2.40.130 Disciplinary procedures.
   A.   Any appointing power shall have the right, for due cause, to demote,
dismiss, reduce in pay or suspend without pay for thirty calendar days any
regular employee. Notice of such action must be in writing and served
personally on such employee, except where an emergency situation exists, in
which case the notice shall be served within three working days of the action
taken. Such notice shall specify the penalty and contain a statement of the
reason or reasons therefor.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to reductions in pay
which are part of a general plan to reduce salaries and wages or to eliminate
positions. (Prior code § 2.40.120)
2.40.140 Appeal.
   Any employee in the competitive service shall have the right to appeal to
the city council any disciplinary action or alleged violation of this chapter
and the rules adopted hereunder, except in those instances where the right of
appeal is specifically prohibited by this chapter or the rules adopted
hereunder. All appeals shall be concluded as expeditiously as possible and in
accordance with the requirements and procedures as set forth in the personnel
rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter. (Prior code § 2.40.130)
2.40.150 Layoffs—Generally.
   Whenever in the judgment of the city council it becomes necessary in the
interest of economy, or because the necessity for a position no longer exists,
the city council may abolish any position or employment in the competitive
service, and the employee holding such position for employment may be laid off
without taking disciplinary action and without the right of appeal. (Prior code
§ 2.40.140)
2.40.160 Layoffs—Seniority rule applicable.
   In reducing personnel and laying off any employee through the abolition of
position, the council shall observe the seniority rule. The name of each
employee so laid off shall be placed at the top of the appropriate eligible
list. (Prior code § 2.40.150)
2.40.170 Layoffs—Notice—Placement on reemployment lists.
   Employees to be laid off shall be given at least fourteen days prior notice.
The names of regular and probationary employees laid off or demoted in lieu of
layoff shall be placed upon reemployment lists for one year for those classes
requiring basically the same qualifications, duties and responsibilities of the
class from which layoff or demotion in lieu of layoff was made. (Prior code §
2.40.160)
2.40.180 Reemployment—Effect on status.
   Persons whose names are placed on reemployment lists, in accordance with
Section
2.40.170, and who are reemployed within the prescribed period, shall be
regarded as having been on leave of absence during this period and entitled to
all benefits accruing from such leave. (Prior code § 2.40.170)
2.40.190 Political activities—Conformance with state law.
   The political activities of city employees shall conform to pertinent
provisions of state law. (Prior code § 2.40.180)
2.40.200 Discrimination not permitted.
   No person in the competitive service or seeking admission thereto shall be
employed, promoted, demoted or discharged or in any way favored or
discriminated against because of political opinions or affiliations, race,
color, ancestry, national origin, religious creed, physical handicap, sex or
because of the exercise of his rights under Section 3502 of the Government
Code. (Prior code § 2.40.190)
2.40.210 Prohibition of harassment.
   A.   The city condemns and prohibits harassment of an individual because of
that individual's sex, race, religious creed, color, age, national origin,
ancestry, marital status, medical condition, sexual orientation, or physical or
mental handicap. Such harassment by employees and nonemployees is demeaning to
both the victim and the city. It can result in high turnover, absenteeism, low
morale and productivity, and an uncomfortable atmosphere to work in. Therefore,
the city will not tolerate any such harassment of its employees and will take
affirmative action to stop it.
   B.   Harassment includes, but is not limited to:
   1.   Verbal harassment such as epithets, derogatory comments or slurs;
   2.   Physical harassment such as assault, impeding or blocking movements, or
any physical interference with normal work or movement directed at an
individual;
   3.   Visual forms of harassment such as derogatory posters, cartoons or
drawings;
   4.   Sexual harassment such as unwelcome sexual advances, pinching, feeling
or purposely rubbing up against another's body, requests for sexual favors, and
other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature such as name calling,
suggestive comments, or lewd talk and jokes. A more specific and thorough
definition and discussion of sexual harassment is contained in the recent
report by Sedgwick James, the city's insurance broker, which is incorporated in
this section by reference. A copy of the report shall be maintained on file by
the personnel officer for public perusal.
   C.   If any employee believes that he or she is the victim of harassment,
that employee has a duty and responsibility to immediately report the incident
to his or her immediate supervisor. If the immediate supervisor is involved in
the reported conduct, or, if for some other reason the employee feels
uncomfortable about making a report to the supervisor, the report shall be made
to the city administrator. No employee will be disciplined or otherwise
retaliated against for complaining about such harassment.
   D.   The city will promptly and confidentially investigate any such report
and will take whatever corrective action is deemed necessary, including
disciplining or discharging any individual who is found to have violated this
prohibition against harassment. The city does not tolerate harassment of any
kind and will take appropriate action whenever such harassment is demonstrated.
Also, any individual who engages in conduct contrary to this policy may be
personally liable in any legal action brought against him or her. Any and all
such conduct is outside the scope of employment.
   E.   City and taxpayer liability is usually premised upon the city's actual
or constructive knowledge of such harassment and city failure to take immediate
and appropriate corrective action. Employees will serve the city and the public
best, and will prevent future harassment of themselves and other employees, by
promptly reporting all incidents of harassment.
   F.   City personnel procedures and employee training programs shall be
amended and updated regularly to assure that all employees are constantly aware
of city prohibitions against harassment, and of an employee's duty to report
all acts of harassment against the employee or other employees. Employees
should also be made aware of the necessity to keep all such allegations and
investigations confidential, not only for the protection of the harassed
employee, but also to avoid defamation actions by one who claims to be unfairly
accused. (Ord. 90-12 § 1, 1990: prior code § 2.40.220)
2.40.220 Contract rights for special services.
   The city administrator shall consider and make recommendations to the city
council regarding the extent to which the city should contract for the
performance of technical services in connection with the establishment or
operation of the personnel system. The city council may contract with any
qualified person or public or private agency for the performance of all or any
of the following responsibilities and duties imposed by this chapter:
   A.   The preparation of personnel rules and subsequent revisions and
amendments thereof;
   B.   The preparation of a position classifications plan and subsequent
revisions and amendments thereof;
   C.   The preparation, conduct and grading of competitive tests;
   D.   The conduct of employee training programs;
   E.   Special and technical services of advisory or informational character
on matters relating to personnel administration. (Prior code § 2.40.200)
Chapter 2.42 QUALIFICATIONS FOR SERVICE
2.42.010 Automatic disqualification.
   Any person convicted of a felony shall be ineligible to serve on any board
or commission of the city. In the event that a member of a board or commission
is convicted of a felony during his or her term of office, the conviction shall
serve to terminate his or her appointment to the board or commission and the
city council shall immediately proceed to appoint a qualified person to
represent the city for the remainder of the term. (Ord. 93-10 § 1, 1993)
       Title 3 REVENUE AND FINANCE
Chapter 3.04 COUNTY COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES
3.04.010 State provisions adopted.
   The council does avail itself of the provisions of the General Law of the
state of California relative to the assessment and collection of taxes by the
county officials. (Prior code § 3.24.010)
3.04.020 Duties transferred to county.
   The duties of assessing property and collecting taxes provided by law to be
performed by the assessor and tax collector of the city, shall be performed by
the county assessor and county tax collector. (Prior code § 3.24.020)
Chapter 3.06 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY
3.06.005 Electronic submittal of claims.
   Pursuant to Section 915(a)(3) of the California Government Code, a claim,
any amendment thereto, or an application for leave to present a late claim, may
be submitted electronically. Such claim may be submitted via an electronic form
published on the internet or via email, provided that the submittal complies
with all other applicable laws governing the submittal of such a claim, and
must contain an electronic facsimile of the signature of the claimant or
claimant's representative, where such signature is required by law. (Ord. O-
2025-002 § 7, 2025)
3.06.010 Claims in general.
   Pursuant to the authority granted the city by Section 935 of the California
Government Code, all claims against the city for money or damages which are
excepted from the claims presentation requirement of Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) of the California
Government Code (to wit, those claims enumerated in Section 905 of the
California Government Code), and which are not governed by any other statutes
or regulations expressly relating thereto, shall be governed by the procedures
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 8, 2025; Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part),
1996)
3.06.020 Presenting and filing.
   All claims against the city shall be signed under penalty of perjury by the
claimant or by some person on his behalf. All claims against the city shall be
presented to the city by delivering or mailing the claim to the city clerk. All
claims shall set forth:
   A.   The name and post office of the claimant;
   B.   The post office address to which the person presenting the claim
desires notices to be sent;
   C.   The date, place and other circumstances of the occurrence or
transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted;
   D.   A general description of the indebtedness, obligation, injury, damage
or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the time of presentation of the
claim;
   E.   The name or names of the public employee or employees causing the
injury, damage, or loss, if known; and
   F.   The amount claimed if it totals less than ten thousand dollars as of
the date of presentation of the claim, including the estimated amount of any
prospective injury, damage, or loss, insofar as it may be known at the time of
the presentation of the claim, together with the basis of computation of the
amount claimed. If the amount claimed exceeds ten thousand dollars, no dollar
amount shall be included in the claim. However, it shall indicate whether
jurisdiction over the claim would rest in municipal or superior court. (Ord.
96-01 § 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.030 Itemization necessary.
   The city council shall not hear or consider or allow or approve any claim,
bill or demand against the city unless the same is itemized giving names, dates
and particular services rendered, character of process served and upon whom,
distance traveled, character of work done, and number of days engaged,
materials and supplies furnished, when and to whom and in what quantity
furnished, the price therefrom and any other pertinent details as the case may
be. (Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.035   Class actions.
   No claim may be filed on behalf of a class of persons unless signed under
penalty of perjury by every member of that class. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, class actions shall not be allowed in any case challenging a city
tax. (Ord. O-2012-007 § 1, 2012)
3.06.035 (Reserved).
This section, regarding class actions, was repealed by Ord. O-2025-002, § 9,
2025. (Ord. O-2012-007 § 1, 2012)
3.06.040 Notice of insufficiency.
   If in the opinion of the city clerk, or her designee, a claim as presented
fails to comply substantially with the requirements of this chapter, the city
clerk or her designee may, at any time within twenty days after the claim is
presented, give written notice of its insufficiency, stating with particularity
the defects or omission therein. Failure of the city clerk to provide notice of
insufficiency shall not operate as a waiver of any defenses the city may have
based on the sufficiency of the claim. (Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.050 Suit.
   No suit for money or damages may be brought against the city on a cause of
action for which a claim is required to be presented in accordance with this
chapter until a written claim therefor has been presented to the city and has
been acted upon by the city council, or has been deemed to have been rejected
by the city council, in accordance with Section 912.4 of the California
Government Code. (Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.060 Disposition.
   If the city council finds any claim or demand is not a proper charge against
the city, it shall be rejected by resolution or minute action, and the fact of
rejection shall be plainly endorsed upon the claim by the city clerk or her
authorized representative. If any claim or demand is determined to be a proper
charge against the city, the same shall be allowed by resolution setting forth
as to each claim the name of the claimant, a brief statement of the claim, and
the amount allowed. Any claim may be allowed in part and rejected in part by
the city council. The city council may also delegate to the city manager or
another person or entity the responsibility for administering, accepting and/or
rejecting claims filed against the city. (Ord. O-2012-007 § 2, 2012; Ord. 96-01
§ 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.070 Approval by council.
   If any claim or demand is approved and allowed by the city council, the city
clerk shall endorse upon each of the duplicate copies thereof the words,
"Allowed by the city council of the city of Pismo Beach," together with the
resolution number or minute action allowing the same and for what amount and
from what fund, and the city clerk shall attest the same with her signature.
(Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.080 Payment by check.
   If any claim or demand is approved and allowed by the city council, the
mayor shall draw a check upon the city treasury for the same, which check shall
be countersigned by the city clerk, or her authorized representative, or the
city finance director or her authorized representative, and shall specify for
what purpose the same is drawn and out of what fund it is to be paid. (Ord. 96-
01 § 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.090 Sufficient money in treasury.
   Except as otherwise provided, no check shall be drawn or evidence of
indebtedness issued unless there is at the time sufficient money in the
treasury legally applicable to the payment of the same. (Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part),
1996)
3.06.100 Acceptance by finance director.
   Upon presentation of the check properly executed and endorsed, the city
finance director shall pay the same out of the funds in the city treasury
properly applicable to that purpose. (Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.110 Disapproval for want of funds.
   When an order or demand is not approved for want of funds and its amount
does not exceed the income revenue for the year in which the indebtedness was
incurred, the city clerk shall endorse on it: "Not approved for want of funds,"
with the date of presentation and her signature. (Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part), 1996)
3.06.120 Time for presentation of claim.
   Notwithstanding the exemptions set forth in Section 905 of the California
Government Code, all claims against the city for damages or money, when a
procedure for processing such claims is not otherwise provided by state law,
shall be presented not later than one year after the accrual of the cause of
action. If the cause of action for money or damages has a statute of
limitations of less than one year, a claim for such cause of action shall be
presented not later than the period of time established as the statute of
limitations. (Ord. O-2012- 007 § 3, 2012; Ord. 96-01 § 1 (part), 1996)
Chapter 3.08 PURCHASING
3.08.010 System adopted.
   A purchasing system is adopted in order to establish efficient procedures
for the purchase of supplies and equipment, to secure supplies and equipment at
the lowest possible cost commensurate with quality needed, to exercise positive
financial control over purchases and to define authority for the purchasing
function. (Prior code § 3.04.010)
3.08.020 Division centralized.
   There is created a centralized purchasing division which has authority for
the purchase of supplies and equipment. (Prior code § 3.04.020)
3.08.030 Purchasing officer—Duties.
   There is created the position of purchasing officer. The purchasing officer
shall be the city manager and/or designee. The purchasing officer has general
supervision of the purchasing division. The duties of purchasing officer may be
combined with those of any other office or position. The purchasing officer
shall:
   A.   Purchase and contract for supplies and equipment required by the city
in accordance with purchasing procedures;
   B.   Negotiate and recommend execution of contracts for the purchase of
supplies and equipment;
   C.   Procure for the city the needed quality in supplies and equipment at
least expense to the city;
   D.   Discourage uniform bidding and obtain as full and open competition as
possible on all purchases;
   E.   Prepare and recommend to the council rules governing the purchase of
supplies and equipment for the city;
   F.   Keep informed of current developments in the field of purchasing
prices, market conditions and new products;
   G.   Prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonably necessary to the
operation of this chapter and other rules and regulations;
   H.   Supervise the inspection of all supplies and equipment purchased to
insure conformance with specifications;
   I.   Recommend the transfer of surplus or unused supplies and equipment
between departments as needed;
   J.   Maintain a bidders' list, vendors' catalog file and records needed for
the efficient operation of purchasing division. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 10, 2025;
Ord. O-2012-005 § 1, 2012; Prior code § 3.04.030)
3.08.040 Exemptions from centralized purchasing.
   The purchasing officer, with the approval of the council, may authorize in
writing each department to purchase specified supplies and equipment
independently of the purchasing division. However, the purchasing officer shall
require that such purchases be made in conformity with the established
procedures and shall require periodic reports from the department on the
purchase made under this written authorization. (Prior code § 3.04.040)
3.08.050 Estimates of requirements.
   Each department shall file detailed estimates of its requirements in
supplies and equipment in such manner, at such time, and for such future
periods as the purchasing officer prescribes. (Prior code § 3.04.050)
3.08.060 Requisitions.
   Each department shall submit requests for supplies and equipment to the
purchasing officer either by standard requisition forms or by other means
established by the purchasing rules and regulations. (Prior code § 3.04.060)
3.08.070 Bidding.
   Each purchase of supplies and equipment shall be by bid procedures as set
forth in Sections 3.08.100 and 3.08.110. The purchasing officer may dispense
with bidding only when:
   A.   An emergency declared by an appropriate authority as described in
Chapter 2.32, Emergency Services of this title, requires that an order be
placed with the most expeditious source of supply of equipment, goods or
services, taking into account timeliness of delivery and price;
   B.   When the amount involved is less than a specific cost threshold defined
in the city's purchasing policies as amended from time to time; or
   C.   The commodity can be obtained from only one vendor.
   D.   When a piggyback contract is available under which:
   1.   Competitive bid procedures have already been utilized, such as in
purchasing from the federal, California State or county governments, including
state of California and agencies of counties, cities and special districts in
the state of California, and
   2.   The supplies, equipment or services are supplied to the city under the
piggyback contract at the same or better price, as was obtained by the vendor,
through the federal, state of California agencies and the agencies of counties,
cities and special districts in the state of California using the competitive
bid procedures.
   3.   As used in this subsection, "piggyback contract" means a contract
entered into by means of placing a purchase order against an existing contract
of another public agency.
   E.   When cooperative purchasing is available. As used in this subsection,
"cooperative purchasing" means purchasing that consists of combining the needs
of multiple customers and/or other governmental agencies into a single
solicitation of bids. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 11, 2025; Ord. O-2019-001 § 1, 2019;
Ord. O-2012-005 § 2, 2012; Ord. 06-10 § 1, 2006; prior code § 3.04.070)
3.08.080 Purchase orders.
   A purchase of supplies and equipment may be made only by purchase order,
except for purchases of less than a specific cost threshold defined in the
city's purchasing policies as amended from time to time. A purchase order may
not be issued until the purchasing officer first approves it. (Ord. O-2025-002,
§ 12, 2025; Prior code § 3.04.080)
3.08.090 Encumbrance of funds.
   Except in case of an emergency or where specific authority is first obtained
from the city manager, the purchasing officer may not issue a purchase order
for supplies or equipment unless there exists an unencumbered appropriation in
the fund account against which the purchase is to be charged. (Prior code
§ 3.04.090)
3.08.100 Formal contract procedure.
   Except as provided in Section
3.08.070 or
3.08.115 of this chapter, the purchase of supplies and equipment of an
estimated value greater than a specific cost threshold defined in the city's
purchasing policies as amended from time to time shall be by written contract
with the lowest responsible bidder after following this procedure:
   A.   Notice Inviting Bids. The purchasing officer shall prepare a notice
inviting bids. The notice shall include a general description of the article to
be purchased, shall state where bid blanks and specifications may be secured,
the time and place for opening bids and the security required, if any.
   1.   Published Notice. The notice inviting bids shall be published and/or
posted at times and locations to be determined by the purchasing officer, in a
manner meeting or exceeding minimum requirements under law.
   2.   Bidders' List. The purchasing officer shall also solicit sealed bids
from responsible prospective suppliers, whose names are on the bidders' list or
who have made written requests that their names be added to it.
   B.   Bidder's Security. When the purchasing officer considers it necessary,
the purchasing officer shall prescribe bidder's security and a statement of the
security shall be included in the notice of inviting bids. Each bidder is
entitled to a return of the bid security. However, a successful bidder forfeits
its bid security if the bidder refuses or fails to execute the contract within
ten (10) days after the notice of award of contract is mailed. If the
successful bidder fails or refuses to execute the contract, the council may
award it to the next lowest responsible bidder or readvertise. If the council
awards the contract to the next lowest bidder, the city shall apply the amount
of the lowest bidder's security to the contract price difference between the
lowest bid and the second lowest bid. The surplus, if any, shall be returned to
the lowest bidder. If the council rejects all bids and readvertises, the amount
of the lowest bidder's security may be used to offset the cost of receiving new
bids and the surplus, if any, shall be returned to the lowest bidder.
   C.   Bid Opening Procedures. The purchasing officer shall determine the
manner of bid submittal and the manner of bid opening, with said information
provided in the public bid notice. The purchasing officer shall tabulate the
bids received and shall keep the tabulation open for public inspection during
regular business hours for as long as the records are retained in accordance
with the city's records retention policies.
   D.   Rejection of Bids. In its discretion, the council may reject all bids
presented and readvertise for bids.
   E.   Award of Contracts. The council shall award the contract to the lowest
responsible bidder.
   F.   Tie Bids. If two or more bids received are for the same total amount or
unit price, quality and service being equal, and if the public interest will
not permit the delay of readvertising for bids, the council may accept the one
it chooses or accept the lowest bid made after negotiation with the tie bidders
at the time of the bid opening.
   G.   Performance Bonds. The council may require a performance bond before
entering a contract in such amount as it finds reasonably necessary to protect
the best interests of the city. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 13, 2025; Ord. O-2019-001 §
2, 2019; Ord. O-2012-005 § 3, 2012; Ord. 06-10 § 2, 2006; prior code §
3.04.100)
3.08.110 Open market procedure.
   If the estimated value of the purchase of supplies or equipment is less than
a specific cost threshold defined in the city's purchasing policies as amended
from time to time, the purchasing officer may dispense with bidding procedure.
If the estimated value of the purchase is above said threshold but below the
threshold requiring city council approval, the purchasing officer shall make
the purchase in the open market under the following procedure:
   A.   Minimum Number of Bids. The purchasing officer shall obtain at least
three (3) bids and shall make the purchase from the lowest responsible bidder.
   B.   Notice Inviting Bids. The purchasing officer shall solicit bids by
public notice published and/or posted at times and locations to be determined
by the purchasing officer, in a manner meeting or exceeding minimum
requirements under law, as well as any other means of solicitation deemed
appropriate.
   C.   Written Bids. The purchasing officer shall determine the manner of bid
submittal and the manner of bid opening, with said information provided in the
public bid notice. The purchasing officer shall tabulate the bids received and
shall keep the tabulation open for public inspection during regular business
hours for as long as the records are retained in accordance with the city's
records retention policies. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 14, 2025; Ord. O- 2019-001 § 3,
2019; Ord. O-2012-005 § 4, 2012; Prior code § 3.04.110)
3.08.115 Emergency purchasing authority.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, in the event of an
emergency declared by an appropriate authority as described in Chapter 2.32,
Emergency Services of this Code, the city manager/director of emergency
services is authorized to approve without solicitation of bids purchases,
leases, or other contracts for goods or services up to a value defined in the
city's purchasing policies as amended from time to time. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 15,
2025; Ord. 06-10 § 3, 2006)
3.08.120 Inspection and testing.
   The purchasing officer shall inspect supplies and equipment delivered to
determine their conformance with the specifications set forth in the order. The
purchasing officer shall have authority to require chemical and physical tests
of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries which are necessary to
determine their quality and conformance with specifications. (Prior code §
3.04.120)
3.08.130 Surplus supplies and equipment.
   All departments shall submit to the purchasing officer, at such times and in
such forms as he prescribes, reports showing all supplies and equipment which
are no longer used or which have become obsolete or worn out. The purchasing
officer may exchange or trade in on new supplies and equipment all supplies and
equipment which cannot be used by an agency or which have become unsuitable for
city use. (Prior code § 3.04.130)
3.08.135   Informal bid procedures under the Uniform Public Construction Cost
Accounting Act.
   A.   Informal Bid Procedures. A public works construction project, as
defined in Section 20161 of the Public Contract Code may be performed by
contract acquired by informal procedures as set forth in Section 22032, et
seq., of the Public Contract Code.
   B.   Contractors List. A list of contractors shall be developed and
maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 22034 of the Public
Contract Code and criteria promulgated from time to time by the California
Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Commission. Such list will be maintained
by the public works director or designee.
   C.   Notice Inviting Bids. When a public works construction project is to be
performed which is subject to the provisions of this section, a notice inviting
informal bids shall be published and/or posted at times and locations to be
determined by the purchasing officer, in a manner meeting or exceeding minimum
requirements under law, and in a manner that guarantees transmittal to all
contractors for the category of work to be bid, as shown on the list developed
in accordance with subsection B. of this section, and to all construction trade
journals as specified by the California Uniform Public Construction Cost
Accounting Commission in accordance with Section 22036 of the California Public
Contract Code. Additional contractors and/or construction trade journals may be
notified at the discretion of the public works director; provided however:
   1.   If there is no list of qualified contractors maintained by the
purchasing officer for the particular category of work to be performed, the
notice inviting bids shall be sent only to the construction trade journals
specified by the commission.
   2.   If the producer or service is proprietary in nature such that it can be
obtained only from a certain contractor or contractors, the notice inviting
informal bids may be sent exclusively to such contractor or contractors.
   D.   Award of Contract. Award of contract to the successful responsive,
responsible low bidder will be executed in accordance with the purchasing
policy, as described in Section
3.08.010. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 16, 2025; Ord. O- 2012-003 § 1, 2012)
3.08.140 Violation—Penalty.
   This section, regarding violations and penalties for this chapter, was
repealed by Ord. O-2025-002, § 17, 2025. (Prior code § 3.04.140)
Chapter 3.10 WARRANTS AND CHECKS
3.10.010 Signing of warrants and checks.
   Pursuant to authority granted the city by California Government Code Section
40602, all warrants or checks drawn on the city treasury shall be signed by any
two of the following city officers:
   A.   Finance director;
   B.   City manager;
   C.   City clerk;
   D.   Deputy finance director. (Ord. 96-10 § 1, 1996)
Chapter 3.12 SALES AND USE TAX
3.12.010 Short title.
   This chapter shall be known as the uniform local sales and use tax
ordinance. (Prior code § 3.12.010)
3.12.020 Rate.
   The rate of sales tax and use tax imposed by this chapter shall be one
percent. (Prior code § 3.12.020)
3.12.030 Operative date.
   This chapter shall be operative on January 1, 1974. (Prior code § 3.12.030)
3.12.040 Purpose.
   The council declares that this chapter is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in
order to accomplish those purposes:
   A.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code;
   B.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the state insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;
   C.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the state sales and use taxes;
   D.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible, be consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting city sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
chapter. (Prior code § 3.12.040)
3.12.050 Contract with state.
   Prior to the operative date this city shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this sales and use tax ordinance; provided, that if this city
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract rather than the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the adoption of this chapter. (Prior code §
3.12.050)
3.12.060 Sales tax.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate stated in Section
3.12.020 of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in this city on and after the operative date.
(Prior code § 3.12.060)
3.12.070 Place of sale.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulation to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization. (Prior code §
3.12.070)
3.12.080 Use tax.
   An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in this
city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date for storage, use or other consumption in this city at the rate
stated in Section
3.12.020 of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. (Prior code § 3.12.080)
3.12.090 Adoption of provisions of state law.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set
forth herein. (Prior code § 3.12.090)
3.12.100 Limitations on adoption of state law.
   In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, wherever the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this city shall be substituted therefor. The substitution, however,
shall not be made when the word "State" is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the State
Board of Equalization, the State Treasury, or the Constitution of the state of
California; the substitution shall not be made when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city, or any
agency thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
chapter; the substitution shall not be made in those sections, including, but
not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the state, where the result of the substitution would be to provide an
exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the state under the said provisions of that code; the
substitution shall not be made in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code; and the substitution shall not be made for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 or in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203. (Prior code § 3.12.100)
3.12.110 Permit not required.
   If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller's permit shall not be required
by this chapter. (Prior code § 3.12.110)
3.12.120 Exclusions and exemptions.
   A.   The amount subject to tax shall not include any sales or use tax
imposed by the state upon a retailer or consumer.
   B.   The storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or city in
this state shall be exempt from the tax due under this chapter.
   C.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax,
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state,
the United States, or any foreign government.
   D.   In addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
Revenue and Taxation Code the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible
personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the
United States or any foreign government is exempted from the use tax. (Prior
code § 3.12.130)
3.12.130 Amendments.
   All subsequent amendments of the Revenue and Taxation Code which relate to
the sales and use tax and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.5 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code shall automatically become a part of this
chapter. (Prior code § 3.12.150)
3.12.140 Enjoining collection forbidden.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or this
city, or against any officer of the state or this city, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Prior
code § 3.12.160)
3.12.150 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for a period of
not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Prior code §
3.12.170)
Chapter 3.14 GENERAL FUND COMMITTED FUNDS
General Fund Reserve Policy
3.14.010 Purpose.
   The purpose of this policy is to establish general guidelines for the
establishment, maintenance and use of a general fund reserve. This reserve will
generate investment income, provide a margin of safety and stability to protect
the city from exposure to catastrophic events and economic impacts, and provide
flexibility to pursue emergent opportunities. (Ord. O-2015- 003, § 1, 2015)
3.14.020 General fund reserve policy.
   The general fund reserve policy requires that a minimum balance of 25% of
the general fund operating expenditure budget be maintained in any given year.
The 25% level is based on the city's dependence on the tourism industry, the
large capital and cash flow intensive budget, potential major unanticipated
costs from an earthquake or other major disaster, and vulnerability if the
state confiscates key revenues. This amount would allow the city to maintain
normal operations for three months. The reserve balance should be reported to
council annually with fund transfers to be made annually prior to the closing
of the fiscal year. (Ord. O-2015-003, § 1, 2015)
3.14.030 Intended uses for reserve.
   A.   Emergencies: In the event of an emergency or disaster such as
earthquakes, fires, floods, tsunamis, or other such emergencies as determined
in the discretion of the council, the reserve may be used to temporarily fund
recovery costs. It is understood that all aide assistance options will be
sought to fund recovery efforts or reimbursement of the general fund reserve
for fronting of recovery costs.
   B.   Economic downturns: In the event of an economic downturn, the reserve
may be used to temporarily fund operating expenditures while expenditure
reductions are implemented.
   C.   Decreased revenues: In the event that revenues are taken by another
government entity such as the state holding back on or altering tax
disbursements or loss of sales tax receipts of a one-time nature, or there is a
drop in projected/actual revenue of more than 5% of the general fund adopted
revenue budget, the reserve may be used to fund expenditures. In the event the
decreased revenues are ongoing, expenditure reductions shall be considered by
the council.
   D.   Capital acquisitions and cash flow needs: If there is a large capital
and cash flow intensive budget requiring more than five hundred thousand
dollars or 3% of the general fund operating budget, the reserve may provide
temporary cash flow relief. A repayment plan shall be established, and shall be
financially feasible based on the city's long-term financial forecast.
Alternative financing options shall be presented to council for consideration
along with the use of the general fund reserve.
   E.   Emergent opportunities: Up to one-third of the general fund reserve
balance may be used to finance opportunities that directly benefit the city in
a variety of ways. These include, yet are not limited to, creating, enhancing,
or preserving revenue streams, or otherwise strengthening the city's financial
performance. (Ord. O-2015-003, § 1, 2015)
3.14.040 Replenishment plan.
   Whenever general fund reserve funds are used, the reserve shall be
replenished as soon as possible. Up to 50% of available general fund unassigned
fund balance may be allocated to the general fund reserve annually until the
reserve is restored to 25% of adopted budget operating appropriations. (Ord. O-
2015-003, § 1, 2015)
City Facility Reserve Policy
3.14.050 Purpose.
   The purpose of this policy is to establish general guidelines for the
establishment, maintenance and use of a city facility reserve. This reserve
will generate investment income, provide funding to protect the city from
exposure to general liabilities associated with use of city buildings and
facilities, and support improvements to city buildings and facilities. (Ord. O-
2015-003, § 1, 2015)
3.14.060 City facility reserve policy.
   The city facility reserve policy requires that five hundred thousand dollars
be set aside for improvements to city buildings and facilities, particularly if
funds are not available in a given fiscal year. The reserve balance should be
reported to council annually with fund transfers to be made annually prior to
the closing of the fiscal year. (Ord. O-2015-003, § 1, 2015)
3.14.070 Intended uses for reserve.
   In the event that funds are not available such as an emergency, economic
downturn, decreased revenues, or cash flow needs as determined in the
discretion of the council, the reserve may be used to fund improvements over
one hundred thousand dollars necessary for accessibility improvements, safety
improvements, improvements to protect the city from exposure to general
liabilities associated with use of city buildings and facilities, or other
unanticipated infrastructure improvements to city buildings and facilities.
(Ord. O-2015-003, § 1, 2015)
3.14.080 Replenishment plan.
   Whenever city facility reserve funds are used, the reserve shall be
replenished as soon as possible. Up to five hundred thousand dollars of
available general fund unassigned fund balance may be allocated to the city
facility reserve annually until the reserve is restored to the five hundred
thousand dollar reserve level. (Ord. O-2015-003, § 1, 2015)
Risk Management Reserve Policy
3.14.090 Purpose.
   The purpose of this policy is to establish general guidelines for the
establishment, maintenance and use of a risk management reserve. This reserve
will generate investment income, provide funding to protect the city from
exposure to increased risk management costs from general liability, workers
compensation, or property insurance premiums; and or legal claims against the
city. (Ord. O-2015-003, § 1, 2015)
3.14.100 Risk management reserve policy.
   The risk management reserve policy requires that fifty thousand dollars from
the general fund unassigned fund balance set aside each year, up to two hundred
fifty thousand dollars, to fund general liability and workers' compensation
costs over 10% of the adopted budget for risk management costs, legal costs,
judgments, or to avoid judgments such as American Disability Act improvements
over one hundred thousand dollars. The reserve balance should be reported to
council annually with fund transfers to be made annually prior to the closing
of the fiscal year. (Ord. O-2015-003, § 1, 2015)
3.14.110 Intended uses for reserve.
   A.   In the event that the actual cost exceeds 10% of the adopted budget for
general liability and workers' compensation costs, the reserve may be used to
fund unanticipated risk management costs, upon city council approval.
   B.   In the event that legal costs, judgments, or judgment avoidance
improvements exceed one hundred thousand dollars of the adopted budget, the
reserve may be used to fund these unanticipated costs. (Ord. O-2015-003, § 1,
2015)
3.14.120 Replenishment plan.
   The risk management reserve policy requires that fifty thousand dollars from
the general fund unassigned fund balance be set aside each year, up to a
maximum two hundred fifty thousand dollars. (Ord. O-2015-003, § 1, 2015)
Chapter 3.16 DOCUMENTARY STAMP TAX
3.16.010 Short title—State code adopted.
   This chapter shall be known as the "real property transfer tax ordinance of
the city." It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in Part 6.7,
commencing with Section 11901, of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
of the state. (Prior code § 3.20.010)
3.16.020 Imposition.
   There is imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements, or other realty sold within the city shall be granted, assigned,
transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or
purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their direction, when the
consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive of the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale)
exceeds one hundred dollars, a tax at the rate of twenty-seven and one-half
cents for each five hundred dollars or fractional part thereof. (Prior code §
3.20.020)
3.16.030 Persons subject to tax.
   Any tax pursuant to Section
3.16.020 shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues any document or
instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the same is made,
signed or issued. (Prior code § 3.20.030)
3.16.040 Exemption—Instrument in writing to secure debt.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to any instrument
in writing given to secure a debt. (Prior code § 3.20.040)
3.16.050 Exemption—Government agencies.
   Any deed, instrument or writing to which the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof, any state or territory, or political subdivision
thereof, is a party shall be exempt from any tax imposed pursuant to this
section when the exempt agency is acquiring title. (Ord. 90-19 § 2(D), 1990:
prior code § 3.20.050)
3.16.060 Exemption—Plan of reorganization or adjustment.
   A.   Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to the making,
delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:
   1.   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
   2.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
railroad corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of Section 205 of Title 11
of the United States Code, as amended;
   3.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of Section 506 of Title 11 of the
United States Code, as amended; or
   4.   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization is
effected.
   B.   Subdivisions 1 through 4, inclusive, of subsection A of this section
shall only apply if the making, delivery, or filing of instruments of transfer
or conveyances occurs within five years from the date of such confirmation,
approval or change. (Prior code § 3.20.060)
3.16.070 Exemption—Order of Securities and Exchange Commission.
   Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to the making or
delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 1083 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954; but only if:
   A.   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of Section 79k of Title 15 of the
United States Code, relating to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
   B.   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
   C.   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order. (Prior code §
3.20.070)
3.16.080 Partnerships.
   A.   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this chapter by reason of any transfer of any interest in a
partnership or otherwise, if:
   1.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of Section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954; and
   2.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   B.   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of
Section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for purposes of this chapter,
such partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby
there was conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien
or encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the
time of such termination.
   C.   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this chapter by
reason of a termination described in subsection B, and any transfer pursuant
thereto, with respect to the realty held by such partnership at the time of
such termination. (Prior code § 3.20.080)
3.16.090 Administration.
   The county recorder shall administer this chapter in conformity with the
provisions of Part 6.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and the
provisions of any county ordinance adopted pursuant thereto. (Prior code §
3.20.090)
3.16.100 Claims for refund.
   Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be
governed by the provisions of Chapter 3.06 of this code. (Ord. 96-01 § 2, 1996:
prior code § 3.20.100)
3.16.110 Operative date.
   This chapter shall become operative upon the operative date of any ordinance
adopted by the county pursuant to Part 6.7, commencing with Section 11901, of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the state of California, or upon
January 2, 1968, whichever is the later. (Prior code § 3.20.110)
3.16.120 Copies on file.
   Upon its adoption the city clerk shall file two copies of this chapter with
the county recorder. (Prior code § 3.20.120)
3.16.130 Exemptions—Revenue and Taxation Code.
   Exemptions shall be as set forth under Revenue and Taxation Code, Sections
11926 through 11929 inclusive. (Ord. 90-19 § 2(E), 1990: prior code § 3.20.160)
Chapter 3.20 TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
3.20.010 Short title.
   This chapter shall be known as the uniform transient occupancy tax ordinance
of the city. (Prior code § 3.28.010)
3.20.020 Definitions.
   Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this chapter:
   "Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is
occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or
house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house,
apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobilehome or house trailer
at a fixed location, or other similar structure or portion thereof; and shall
further include any space, lot, area, or site in any trailer court, camp, park
or lot where a trailer, recreational vehicle, mobilehome, motorhome, or other
similar conveyance, is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by
transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.
   "Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to the use or
possession of any room or rooms or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes.
   "Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any
other capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a managing
agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall
also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the
same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of
this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliance by both.
   "Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or
any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   "Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the
occupancy of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money,
goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property
and services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
   "Tax administrator" means the finance director, or such other city officer
as may be designated from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   "Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or
agreement for a period of thirty consecutive calendar days or less, counting
portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a
hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty days has
expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the
occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy. In determining whether a
person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and
subsequent to April 1, 1965, may be considered. (Ord. 89-17 § 1, 1989; prior
code § 3.28.020)
3.20.030 Tax imposed.
   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to
and shall pay a tax in the amount of eleven percent of the rent charged by the
operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which
is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient
shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If
the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be
paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's
ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid
to the operator of the hotel, the tax administrator may require that such tax
shall be paid directly to the tax administrator. (Ord. O-2020-009, § 1, 2020:
Ord. 91-11 § 1, 1991: prior code § 3.28.030)
3.20.040 Exemptions.
   A.   No tax shall be imposed upon:
   1.   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the
power of the city to impose the tax herein provided;
   2.   Any federal officer or employee when on official business;
   3.   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason
of express provision of federal law or international treaty.
   B.   No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the
time rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by
the tax administrator. (Ord. 92-15 § 1, 1992: prior code § 3.28.040)
3.20.050 Operator's duties.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same
extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The
amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of rent charged, and
each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No
operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or
indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the
operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part
will be refunded except in the manner provided in this chapter. (Prior code §
3.28.050)
3.20.060 Registration.
   A.   Within thirty days after April 1, 1965, or within thirty days after
commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel renting
occupancy to transients shall register said hotel with the tax administrator
and obtain from him a "transient occupancy registration certificate" to be at
all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Said certificate
shall, among other things, state the following:
   1.   The name of the operator;
   2.   The address of the hotel;
   3.   The date upon which the certificate was issued;
   4.   "This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform
Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering with the tax administrator for
the purpose of collecting from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and
remitting said tax to the tax administrator. This certificate does not
authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful
business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly
complying with all local applicable laws, including but not limited to those
requiring a permit from any board, commission, department or office of this
city. This certificate does not constitute a permit." (Prior code § 3.28.060)
3.20.070 Reporting and remitting.
   Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month allowing the
close of each calendar month, or at the close of any shorter reporting period
which may be established by the tax administrator, make a return to the tax
administrator, on forms provided by him, of the total rents charged and
received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. The return
shall be made whether or not rents have been charged or taxes have been
collected during the month. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of
the tax collected shall be remitted to the tax administrator. The tax
administrator may establish shorter reporting periods for any certificate
holder if he deems it necessary in order to insure collection of the tax and he
may require further information in the return. All taxes collected by operators
pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust for the account of the city
until payment thereof is made to the tax administrator. The information
furnished or secured pursuant to this section shall be confidential. Any
unwarranted disclosure or use of such information by any officer or employee of
the city shall constitute a misdemeanor, and such officer or employee shall be
subject to the penalty provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 88-02 § 1, 1988: prior
code § 3.28.070)
3.20.080 Penalty for tax delinquency—Original.
   Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter within the
time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount of the tax in
addition to the amount of the tax. (Prior code § 3.28.080)
3.20.090 Penalty for tax delinquency—Continued.
   Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a
period of thirty days following the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten percent of the amount
of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten percent penalty
first imposed. (Prior code § 3.28.090)
3.20.100 Penalty for fraud.
   If the tax administrator determines that the nonpayment of any remittance
due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the
amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
Sections
3.20.080 and
3.20.090. (Prior code § 3.28.100)
3.20.110 Interest on tax delinquencies.
   In addition to the penalties imposed in this chapter, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one-
half of one percent per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid. (Prior code § 3.28.110)
3.20.120 Penalty for delinquent reports.
   In addition to the foregoing penalties for delinquent payment of taxes, and
completely separate therefrom any operator who fails to file within five days
of the due date any return or report required to be filed by this chapter shall
pay a penalty of two hundred dollars for each such delinquent return or report.
(Prior code § 3.28.115)
3.20.130 Penalties merged with tax.
   Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of
this chapter shall become a part of the tax required to be paid. (Prior code §
3.28.120)
3.20.140 Failure to collect and report tax.
   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make, within
the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of said tax or any
portion thereof required by this chapter, the tax administrator shall proceed
in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to
base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the tax administrator shall
procure such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to base
the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any operator
who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such report and
remittance, he shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the
tax, interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case such
determination is made, the tax administrator shall give a notice of the amount
so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his last known
place of address. Such operator may within ten days after the serving or
mailing of such notice make application in writing to the tax administrator for
a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing
is not made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if
any, determined by the tax administrator shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the tax administrator
shall give not less than five days written notice in the manner prescribed
herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice
why said amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest
and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why
such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such
hearing the tax administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and
shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed
herein of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest and
penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen days
unless an appeal is taken as provided in Section
3.20.150. (Prior code § 3.28.130)
3.20.150 Appeal.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the tax administrator with respect
to the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the
council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen days of
the serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The council shall fix a
time and place for hearing such appeal, and the city clerk shall give notice in
writing to such operator at his last known place of address. The findings of
the council shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the
appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any
amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon service of
notice. (Prior code § 3.28.140)
3.20.160 Records.
   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment
to the city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a
period of three years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount
of such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the
city, which records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at
all reasonable times. To conduct such inspections, the tax administrator may
utilize the services of finance department employees or of state licensed
outside professional firms or persons such as certified public accountants or
auditors, each of whom shall possess full city authority to conduct said
inspections. (Ord. 89-17 § 2, 1989: prior code § 3.28.150)
3.20.170 Refunds.
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
subsections B and C of this section provided a claim in writing therefor is
filed with the city. The claim shall conform in all respects to the
requirements set forth for claims against the city in Chapter 3.06 of this
code.
   B.   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the tax administrator that the person from whom the tax had been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient to the operator.
   C.   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a
claim in the manner provided in subsection A of this section, but only when the
tax was paid by the transient directly to the tax administrator, or when the
transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction
of the tax administrator that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund
from the operator who collected the tax.
   D.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes the right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto. (Ord. 96-01 § 3, 1996; prior code § 3.28.160)
3.20.180 Actions to collect.
   Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the city. Any such tax
collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a
debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the city under
provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of
the city for the recovery of such amount. (Prior code § 3.28.170)
3.20.190 Violations—Criminal penalties.
   In addition to the civil penalties and action set forth in this chapter for
failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the following criminal
sanctions may be utilized at the discretion of the city, either together with
or completely separate from the civil remedies:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period
of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as
required in this chapter, or to furnish on time any return required to be made,
or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required
by the tax administrator, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim,
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is punishable as set out in this section.
   C.   Any person required to make, render, sign or certify any report or
claim who makes any false or fraudulent report or claim, with intent to defeat
or evade the determination of any amount due required by this chapter to be
made, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable as set out in this section.
(Prior code § 3.28.180)
Chapter 3.22 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
Editor's Note:
   Chapter 3.22 was approved by the electorate on June 3, 2008
3.22.010 Title.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of
the City of Pismo Beach". The City of Pismo Beach hereinafter shall be called
"city." This chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
city.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.020 Purpose.
   This chapter is adopted to extend and modify the transactions and use tax
initially approved by the voters in 2008 and extended by the voters in 2014, to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and the provisions hereof shall be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   A.   To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the city to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition
of the tax at an election called for that purpose.
   B.   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   C.   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the
State Department of Tax and Fee Administration in a manner that adapts itself
as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Department of Tax and Fee Administration in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.
   D.   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.030 Operative date.
   As to adoption of the transactions and use tax pursuant to Ordinance O-2008-
002 approved by the voters in November 2008, "Operative Date" means the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of Ordinance O-2008-002.
   As to the extension of the transactions and use tax pursuant to Ordinance O-
2014-008 approved by the voters in November 2014, "Operative Date" means the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of Ordinance O-2014-008.
   Otherwise, "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this chapter, the
date of adoption being set forth below.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.040 Contract with state.
   Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State
Department of Tax and Fee Administration to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance;
provided, that if the city shall not have contracted with the State Department
of Tax and Fee Administration prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.050 Transactions tax rate.
   Commencing on the operative date under Ordinances O-2008-002 and O-2014-008,
for the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at
the rate of one half of 0.5% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the city on and after
the operative date of this chapter. Commencing on the operative date, for the
privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at the
rate of 1% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the city on and after the operative date of
this chapter.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.060 Place of sale. 
   For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Department of Tax and Fee Administration.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.070 Use tax rate.
   Commencing on the operative date under Ordinances O-2008-002 and O-2014-008,
an excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one half of 0.5% of the sales price of the property.
Commencing on the operative date, an excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the city of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this chapter for
storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 1% of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place
to which delivery is made.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.080 Adoption of provisions of state law.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.090 Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.
   In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:
   A.   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name City of Pismo Beach shall be substituted therefor. However,
the substitution shall not be made when:
   1.   The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Department of Tax
and Fee Administration, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California.
   2.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against Pismo Beach or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Department of Tax and Fee Administration, in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
   3.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:
   a.   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;
   b.   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.
   4.   In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   B.   The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.100 Permit not required.
   If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this chapter.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.110 Exemptions and exclusions.
   A.   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.
   B.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:
   1.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.
   2.   Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a
point outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:
   a.   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-city address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and
   b.   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
   3.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this chapter.
   4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this chapter.
   5.   For the purposes of subparagraphs 3. and 4. of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   C.   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:
   1.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
   2.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.
   3.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
chapter.
   4.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase
of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date
of this chapter.
   5.   For the purposes of subparagraphs 3. and 4. of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   6.   Except as provided in subparagraph 7., a retailer engaged in business
in the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the city or participates within the city in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the city under the authority of the retailer.
   7.   "A retailer engaged in business in the city" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the city.
   D.   Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.120 Amendments.
   All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. The City Council may make
amendments to this chapter that do not affect the rate or duration of the tax
imposed without approval of the voters of the city.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.130 Enjoining collection forbidden.
   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the
city, or against any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
3.22.140 Semi-annual report to council.
   The City Manager shall report to Council not less frequently than semi-
annually on the amount of tax collected under this chapter, and any
expenditures made, or proposed to be made with such collections.
(Ord. O-2024-003, § 2 (part), 2024; Ord. O-2014- 008, § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2008-002, § 2 (part), 2008)
Chapter 3.24 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
3.24.010 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, "unclaimed property" means any and all
property in the possession of the police department for which no claim or
demand has been made and property for which no owner has been found. (Prior
code § 3.32.010)
3.24.020 Authority to sell.
   The police department is authorized to sell at public auction, to the
highest bidder, all unclaimed property which has been in the possession of said
department for a period of more than one hundred and twenty days, upon notice
of such sale, given by the chief of police at least five days before the time
fixed thereof by publication once in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the county. (Prior code § 3.32.020)
3.24.030 Disposition of unsold property.
   Any unclaimed property remaining unsold after being offered at such public
auction may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the police department.
(Prior code § 3.32.030)
3.24.040 Title—Property value twenty-five dollars or more.
   If the reported value of the property is twenty-five dollars or more and no
owner appears and proves his ownership of the property within one hundred and
twenty days, the police department shall cause notice of the property to be
published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation. If after seven
days following the first publication of the notice, no owner appears and proves
his ownership of the property and the person who found the property pays the
cost of the publication, the title shall vest in the person who found the
property unless the property was found in the course of employment by an
employee of any public agency in which case the property shall be sold at
public auction. Title to the property shall not vest in the person who found
the property or in the successful bidder at the public auction unless the cost
of publication is first paid to the city, whose police department caused the
notice to be published. (Prior code § 3.32.040)
3.24.050 Title—Property value less than twenty-five dollars.
   If the reported value of the property is less than twenty-five dollars and
no owner appears and proves his ownership of the property within one hundred
and twenty days, the title shall vest in the person who found the property, if
they so desire it, unless the property was found in the course of employment by
an employee of any public agency in which case the property shall be sold at
public auction. (Prior code § 3.32.050)
3.24.060 Use by city department.
   If it is determined that any unclaimed property could be used by any
department of the city, such property may be retained by the police department
for assignment to that city department. (Prior code § 3.32.060)
3.24.070 Deposit of moneys received.
   All money received from the disposal of unclaimed property shall be
deposited into the general fund. (Prior code § 3.32.070)
Chapter 3.26
LODGING BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
3.26.010 Title.
   This chapter shall be known as the "City of Pismo Beach Lodging Business
Improvement District Law." (Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.020 Definitions.
   A.   "Advisory board" shall mean the Pismo Beach Conference and Visitors
Bureau Board.
   B.   "City council" shall mean the city council of the City of Pismo Beach.
   C.   "District" or "PBLBID" shall mean the Pismo Beach Lodging Business
Improvement District created by this chapter and as delineated in Section
3.26.040.
   D.   "Gross lodging revenue" shall mean the rent charged by the operator per
occupied room per night for all transient occupancies, plus any other non-
optional ancillary charges imposed on transient occupants of occupied rooms
including but not limited to resort fees, housekeeping gratuities and utility
surcharges. Occupancies by federal government employees on government business
for thirty consecutive days or less shall not be included in gross lodging
revenues. Assessments levied pursuant to the District shall not be included in
gross room rental revenue for the purpose of determining the amount of the
transient occupancy tax under Chapter 3.20 of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
   E.   "Lodging operation" shall mean a hotel, as defined in Section 3.20.020
of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code, which pays transient occupancy tax to the
city.
   F.   "Law" shall mean the Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989,
California Streets and Highways Code Sections 36500 et seq., as amended.
   G.   "Operator" shall mean the person who is the proprietor of the hotel,
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee or any
other capacity. Where the operator performs its functions through a managing
agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall
also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the
same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of
this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall however, be
considered to be compliance by both.
   H.   "Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or
agreement for a period of thirty consecutive calendar days or less, counting
portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a
hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty days has
expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the
occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy.
(Ord. O-2020-001, §5, 2020: Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.030 Authorized uses.
   The purpose of forming the PBLBID as a business improvement area under the
Law is to provide revenue to defray the costs of services, activities and
programs promoting the operators of lodging operations in the PBLBID. It is the
intent of this chapter to provide a supplemental source of funding for the
promotion of lodging operations in the PBLBID and it is not intended to
supplant any other existing sources of revenues that may be used by the city
for the promotion of tourism. The specific services, activities and programs to
be provided by the PBLBID are as follows:
   A.   The general promotion of lodging operations within the PBLBID shall
include costs of programs and physical improvements as specified in the
business plan to be adopted annually;
   B.   The marketing of conference, group, and vacation business that benefits
the local lodging industry in the district;
   C.   The marketing of the PBLBID to the travel industry in order to benefit
the local lodging industry in the district;
   D.   Administration of the PBLBID, including collection and enforcement of
assessments.
(Ord. O-2012-004 § 4, 2012; Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.040 Boundaries.
   The boundaries of the PBLBID shall be the boundaries of the city. (Ord. O-
2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.050 Levy of assessment and exemptions.
   A.   The PBLBID shall include all lodging operations located within the
PBLBID boundaries. Beginning on the effective date of the ordinance adopting
the PBLBID, the assessment shall be levied on all lodging operations, existing
and future, within the boundaries of the business improvement district within
the city. The assessment shall be collected monthly, based on the gross lodging
revenues for the previous month. New lodging operations within the boundaries
shall not be exempt from the levy of assessment authorized by Section 36531 of
the Law.
   B.   Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following
the close of each calendar month, or at the close of any shorter reporting
period which may be established by the director of administrative services,
make a return to the director of administrative services, on forms provided by
him, of the total gross lodging revenues charged and received for occupancies
in the lodging operation. The return shall be made whether or not gross lodging
revenues have been charged during the month. At the time the return is filed,
the full amount of the assessment shall be remitted to the director of
administrative services. The director of administrative services may establish
shorter reporting periods for any lodging operation if he deems it necessary in
order to insure collection of the assessment and he may require further
information in the return.
   C.   If any operator shall fail or refuse to make, within the time provided
in this chapter, any report and remittance of said assessment or any portion
thereof required by this chapter, the director of administrative services shall
proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on
which to base his estimate of the assessments due. As soon as the director of
administrative services shall procure such facts and information as he is able
to obtain upon which to base the assessment imposed by this chapter and payable
by any operator who has failed or refused to make such report and remittance,
he shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the assessment,
interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case such determination
is made, the director of administrative services shall give a notice of the
amount so assessed by serving notice personally or by depositing it in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at
his last known place of address.
   D.   Such operator may within ten days after the serving or mailing of such
notice make application in writing to the director of administrative services
for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a
hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the assessment, interest and
penalties, if any, determined by the director of administrative services shall
become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such
application is made, the director of administrative services shall give not
less than five days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the
operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice why said amount
specified therein should not be fixed for such assessment, interest and
penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such
specified assessment, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such
hearing the director of administrative services shall determine the proper
assessment to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the
person in the manner prescribed herein of such determination and the amount of
such assessment, interest and penalties.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and
payment to the city of any assessment levied by this chapter to keep and
preserve, for a period of three years, all records as may be necessary to
determine the amount of such assessment as he may have been liable for the
collection of and payment to the city, which records the director of
administrative services shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable
times. To conduct such inspections, the director of administrative services may
utilize the services of city employees or of outside firms or persons such as
certified public accountants or auditors, each of whom shall possess full city
authority to conduct said inspections. (Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.060 Annual review of assessment.
   All of the assessments imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be reviewed by
the city council annually in April of each year, based upon the annual report
prepared by the advisory board. The advisory board shall complete its report
not later than the last day of March each year. After approval of the annual
report, the city council shall follow the hearing process as outlined in
Section 36534 of the Law to levy assessments for the ensuing fiscal year. At
the public hearing the city council shall hear and consider all protests to the
levy of assessment. If written protests are received from lodging operations in
the district proposed to pay 50% or more of the annual assessment, no further
proceedings to impose the levy of assessments shall take place during the
ensuing fiscal year. (Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.070 Imposition of initial assessment.
   The city council hereby levies and imposes and orders the collection of the
initial assessment to be imposed upon lodging operations in the PBLBID
described above, which shall be calculated based upon 1% of the gross lodging
revenues. Such levy shall begin on the effective date of the ordinance adopting
the PBLBID. (Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.080 Use of revenue.
   The activities to be provided by the PBLBID will be funded by the levy of
the assessments. The total revenue from the levy of assessments within the
PBLBID shall not be used to provide improvements or activities outside the
PBLBID, to provide benefits to persons or entities not subject to assessment,
or for any purpose other than the purposes specified in the resolution of
intention or Section
3.26.030. The proceeds of the assessment shall be spent to administer marketing
and visitor programs to promote lodging operations within the city, and to
administer the PBLBID, including collection and enforcement of assessments. All
funds shall be expended consistent with the purposes of the Law. PBLBID
assessment revenues remaining at the end of any fiscal year may be used in
subsequent years in which PBLBID assessments are levied as long as they are
used consistent with the requirements of this section. The city council shall
consider recommendations made by the advisory board as to the use of assessment
revenues. (Ord. O-2012-004 § 5, 2012; Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.090   Delinquency, penalty and interest.
   A.   Any lodging operation that fails to remit any assessment imposed by
this ordinance within the time required shall pay a penalty of 10% of the
assessment amount in addition to the assessment. Any operator who fails to
remit any delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty days following
the date on which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second
delinquency penalty of 10% of the amount of the assessment in addition to the
amount of the assessment and the 10% penalty first imposed.
   B.   In addition to the penalties imposed in this chapter, any operator who
fails to remit any assessment imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the
rate of 0.5% per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the assessment,
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid. Any and all remedies available to the city for other
nonpayment of assessments shall be applicable in the event of non-payment of an
assessment under this chapter. Any penalty and interest fees collected from a
lodging operation due to delinquency shall be remitted to the city for any
lawful purpose.
   C.   Any assessment required to be paid by any lodging operation under the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the lodging operation
to the city. Any person owing money to the city under provisions of this
chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for the
recovery of such amount. (Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.100   Advisory board.
   The advisory board shall review the implementation of this chapter, the
implementation of programs and activities funded through this chapter, and
advise the city council on the amount of the district's assessments and on the
services, programs, and activities to be funded by the assessments, and shall
perform such other duties as required by the Law, including preparing the
annual report required by Section 36533 of the Law. The annual report shall be
submitted to the city council no later than the last day of March each year.
The city council shall ensure that the advisory board has timely access to all
public information regarding collection, disbursement, and uses of the funds
collected under the terms of this ordinance. (Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.110   Modification or disestablishment.
   The city council may modify the provisions of this chapter or may
disestablish the PBLBID or parts of the PBLBID after adopting a resolution of
intention to such effect, and after adoption of an ordinance in compliance with
the Law. (Ord. O-2012-004 § 6, 2012; Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
3.26.120   Criminal penalties.
   In addition to the civil penalties and action set forth in this chapter for
failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the following criminal
sanctions may be utilized at the discretion of the city, either together with
or completely separate from the civil remedies:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period
of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to furnish on time
any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a
supplemental return or other data required by the director of administrative
services, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and is punishable as set out in this section.
   C.   Any person required to make, render, sign or certify any report or
claim who makes any false or fraudulent report or claim, with intent to defeat
or evade the determination of any amount due required by this chapter to be
made, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable as set out in this section.
(Ord. O-2009-008 § 4 (part), 2009)
Chapter 3.28 SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND
3.28.010 Created.
   To comply with the provisions of Article 5 of Chapter 1 of Division 1 of the
Streets and Highways Code, with particular reference to the amendments made
thereto by Chapter 642, Statutes of 1935, there is created in the city treasury
a special fund to be known as the "special gas tax street improvement fund."
(Prior code § 3.08.010)
3.28.020 Receipts.
   All moneys received by the city from the state under the provisions of the
Streets and Highways Code for the acquisition of real property or interests
therein, or for the construction, maintenance or improvement of streets or
highways other than state highways shall be paid into the fund. (Prior code §
3.08.020)
3.28.030 Disbursements.
   All moneys in the fund shall be expended exclusively for the purposes
authorized by, and subject to all of the provisions of Article 5, Chapter 1,
Division 1 of the Streets and Highways Code. (Prior code § 3.08.030)
Chapter 3.36 EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND ENFORCEMENT FEES
3.36.010 Costs of emergency response.
   The provisions of this chapter are established for the implementation and
administration of Title 5, Division 2, Part 1, Chapter 1, Article 8 of the
California Government Code entitled "Costs of Emergency Response" (Sections
53150 et seq.) as it may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 88-02 § 1 (part),
1988: prior code § 3.36.010)
3.36.020 Driving, boating or flying under the influence.
   All city line departments, including police, fire, public services et
cetera, participating in emergency responses to any incident involving a person
under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or a person whose conduct is
intentionally wrongful, while operating a motor vehicle, boat or civil
aircraft, shall log all personnel time, equipment time and use, and all
incidental costs involved in such emergency response. (Ord. 88-02 § 1 (part),
1988: prior code § 3.36.020)
3.36.030 Reporting costs.
   A.   The costs to the city for all such personnel time, equipment use, and
incidental items shall be reported by each department within ten days
thereafter to the city manager, including, without limitation:
   1.   All direct wage costs for all department personnel so involved
including the department head;
   2.   All equipment costs, including reasonable depreciation or standard
industry hourly rental amounts, plus the cost of all incidental materials and
supplies, involved in the emergency response;
   3.   All costs associated with the recovery and attempted recovery of the
fees to include, but not limited to, administrative processing costs, costs of
contracting a recovery agency who will attempt recovery of the fees, and court
costs.
   B.   The department head responsible for determining that the person causing
the incident was under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, or that the
person's conduct was intentionally wrongful, shall be responsible for
coordinating the preparation and furnishing of the departmental reports to the
city manager. (Ord. 92-12 § 1, 1992; Ord. 88-02 § 1 (part), 1988: prior code §
3.36.030)
3.36.040 No release of obligation to pay costs.
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall be applied uniformly against all
such persons charged with a Penal Code, Vehicle Code, Health and Safety Code or
other state law statutory violation; no city official other than a majority of
the city council shall have authority to reduce or cancel the debt obligation
after criminal charges arising from the incident have been approved by the
district attorney.
   B.   The debt obligation imposed in this chapter shall only be excused or
canceled upon an explicit verdict or finding by a court, or by the city council
after a duly noticed public hearing, that the person did not cause the incident
or that the person was not under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs and the
person's conduct was not intentionally wrongful at the time of the incident.
(Ord. 88-02 § 1 (part), 1988: prior code § 3.36.040)
3.36.050 Collections for general fund.
   A.   All judicial actions for judgment and collection of the debt obligation
in this chapter shall be filed in the San Luis Obispo County Municipal Court,
small claims division, at Grover City, California.
   B.   All moneys collected shall be placed in the city's general fund, and
shall be included in city budget projections.
   C.   After an attempt to collect the debt by the city to no avail, the debt
may be turned over to a collection agency. Collection fees charged by the
collection agency will be added to the debt. (Ord. 92-12 § 2, 1992; Ord. 88-02
§ 1 (part), 1988: prior code § 3.36.050)
3.36.060 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter the following words shall have the following
respective meanings:
   "Boat" means every description of watercraft used or capable of being used
as a means of transportation on water and described pursuant to California
Vehicle Code Section 9840.
   "Civil aircraft" means every description of aircraft used or capable of
being used as a means of transportation in the air and described pursuant to
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 5303.
   "Costs" means all direct personnel costs of city personnel, all equipment
costs including reasonable depreciation or standard industry hourly rental
amount, plus the cost of all incidental material and supplies involved in the
appropriate city response to an incident and any criminal justice
administration fees established pursuant to Government Code Section 29550,
imposed upon the city by San Luis Obispo County or as a result of the booking
and processing of an arrestee.
   "Emergency response" means the appropriate level of response to a pressing
necessity or exigency caused by an event or combination of events calling for
immediate action or remedy to avert imminent danger to life, health or
property.
   "Motor vehicle" means any device described pursuant to California Vehicle
Code Section 670 and being operated upon the highway or elsewhere throughout
the city unless expressly provided otherwise.
   "Under the influence of alcohol or drugs" means that a person is under the
influence of alcohol, drugs or any combined influence of alcohol and drugs to
the point that his/her physical and mental abilities are impaired to a degree
that he/she no longer has the ability to operate any vehicle, boat or vessel
with the caution characteristic of a sober person. For purpose of this chapter,
the presumptions described in California Vehicle Code Sections 23140, 23152 and
23155 shall apply. (Ord. 95-13 § 1, 1995)
       Title 5 BUSINESS TAXES, LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
Chapter 5.04 BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
5.04.010 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter the following words shall have the following
respective meanings:
   "Business" means professions, trades and occupations and all and every kind
of calling carried on for profit or livelihood.
   "City" means the city of Pismo Beach.
   "Fixed place of business" means the premises in the city occupied for the
particular purpose of conducting the business, and regularly kept open for the
purpose with a person in attendance for the purpose of attending to such
business.
   "Gross receipts" means the total amount of the sale price of all sales and
the total amount charged or received from the performance of any act, service
or employment of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or
credit allowed, whether or not such service, act or employment is done as a
part of or in connection with the sale of goods, wares or merchandise. Included
in "gross receipts" shall be all receipts, cash, credits and property of any
kind or nature, except as hereinafter excluded, and any amount for which credit
is allowed by the seller to the purchaser without any deduction therefrom on
account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service cost, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses
whatsoever. Excluded from "gross receipts" shall be cash discounts allowed and
taken on sales, the value of property accepted as part of the purchase price
and which property will later be sold, any tax which is measured by the sales
price or the gross receipts from the sale or which is a stated sum per unit of
such property sold whether included in or added to the purchase price so long
as it is collected from the consumer or purchaser upon the sale, any amount
refunded either in cash or by credit upon rescission of a sale or a contract of
sale and all sales of alcoholic beverages and all other receipts or income
which are subject to excise or occupation taxes by the State Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   "Jobbing business" means every business conducted solely for the purpose of
selling goods, wares, or merchandise in job lots to wholesale merchants for
resale at wholesale to the trade by said wholesale merchants.
   "Location owner" means the owner or manager of each licensed business which
allows the operation by the public of any mechanical amusement device.
   "Manufacturer" means one engaged in making materials raw or partly finished,
into wares suitable for use.
   "Mechanical amusement device" means any table, board, machine, device or
apparatus fitted for use by the public, the operation of which is permitted,
controlled, allowed or made possible by the deposit or insertion of any coin,
plate, disc, slug or key into any slot, crevice or opening, or by the payment
of any fee, and which operates as a game, contest, or amusement or which may be
used as such and does not vend any article or merchandise or any coin, check or
token.
   "Operator" means any person engaged in the business of renting out or
placing mechanical amusement devices in various locations within the city.
   "Person" means all domestic and foreign corporations, associations,
syndicates, joint stock corporations, partnerships of every kind, clubs,
Massachusetts trusts, business or common law trusts, societies and individuals,
transacting and carrying on any business in the city.
   "Retail business" means every business not herein otherwise defined
conducted for the purpose of selling, or offering to sell any goods, wares or
merchandise.
   "Vehicle" means and includes every device in, upon, or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public street or highway,
except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails
or track.
   "Wholesale business" means every business conducted solely for the purpose
of selling goods, wares, or merchandise in wholesale lots. (Prior code §
5.04.010)
5.04.020 License—Required.
   There are imposed upon the businesses specified in this chapter license
taxes in the amounts prescribed, and it is unlawful for any person to transact
and carry on any business in the city without first having procured a license
from said city so to do or without complying with any and all applicable
provisions of this chapter, and each day such business is carried on without a
license shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter. (Prior code §
5.04.020)
5.04.030 Branch establishments.
   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or
location of the business transacted and carried on and for each separate type
of business at the same location, and each license shall authorize the licensee
to transact and carry on only the business licensed thereby at the location and
in the manner designated in such license; provided that warehouses and
distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a business
licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be
separate places of business or branch establishments. (Prior code § 5.04.030)
5.04.040 License—Debt to city.
   The amount of any license imposed by this chapter shall be deemed a debt to
the city, and any person carrying on any business mentioned in this chapter
without having a license from said city so to do, shall be liable to any action
in the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction, for the amount
of license by this chapter imposed on such business, together with all
penalties then due thereon in any such action, and the sum of thirty-five
dollars which, if judgment be recovered, shall be applied as attorney fees for
said plaintiff and included and assessed as recoverable costs in said action.
(Prior code § 5.04.040)
5.04.050 Clerk—Duties.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the clerk of the city to prepare and issue a
license under this chapter for every person liable to pay a license hereunder,
and to state in each license the amount thereof, the period of time covered
thereby, the name of the person to whom issued, the business licensed and the
location or place where such business is to be carried on.
   B.   No license granted or issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
be in any manner transferred or assigned, or authorize any person other than is
therein mentioned or named to do business.
   C.   The clerk shall make a charge of fifty cents for each duplicate license
issued to replace any license issued under the provisions of this chapter which
have been lost or destroyed. In no case shall any mistake made by the clerk in
stating the amount of the license prevent or prejudice the collection by the
city of what shall be actually due from anyone carrying on a business subject
to a license under this chapter. (Prior code § 5.04.050)
5.04.060 Tax—Payment.
   A.   All licenses shall be paid in advance in the legal currency of the
United States at the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Any person carrying on, either as principal or agent, any business in
the city not specifically set forth in this chapter shall pay the amount of
license described and provided for the business nearest corresponding to the
nature of the business sought to be licensed.
   C.   The annual license provided in this chapter shall be due and payable to
the city on the first day of October of each year starting October 1, 1988.
(Ord. 88-03 § 1, 1988: prior code § 5.04.060)
5.04.070 Applications.
   A.   Every person required to have a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall make application for the same to the clerk of the city and upon
payment of the prescribed tax the clerk shall issue to such person a license.
   B.   The application shall furnish all information required to enable the
clerk to properly classify the business of the applicant and determine the
proper license to be paid by such applicant. Each applicant for a license must
properly fill in one of such applications, sign the same and certify, under
penalties of perjury, that the contents thereof are true and correct; or sign
and swear to the same before the clerk, a deputy clerk, or some other person
authorized to administer oaths. The clerk and his deputies and assistants are
authorized to administer oaths in all matters pertaining to the duties of their
respective offices. The clerk shall compute the proper amount of the license
and on payment of said amount shall issue the appropriate license. (Prior code
§ 5.04.070)
5.04.080 Written statement—First license.
   A.   Upon a person making application for the first license to be issued for
a newly established business, in all cases where the amount of license tax to
be paid is based upon gross receipts or is graduated according to some other
sliding scale, such person shall furnish to the clerk for his guidance in
ascertaining the amount of license tax to be paid by the applicant a written
statement upon a form provided by the clerk, signed by him and certified under
penalties of perjury to be true and correct, or sworn to before the clerk, his
deputies, or assistants, or any person authorized to administer oaths, setting
forth such information as may be therein required and as may be necessary
properly to determine the amount of the license tax to be paid by the
applicant.
   B.   If the amount of the license tax to be paid by such applicant is based
upon the amount of his gross receipts, he shall estimate the amount of his
gross receipts for the year for the purpose of determining the license bracket
which will be applicable to him. Such estimate, if accepted by the clerk as
reasonable, shall be used in determining the amount of license tax to be paid
by the applicant; provided, however, that the amount of the license tax so
determined shall be tentative only and such person shall, within fifteen days
after the expiration of the year for which such license was issued, furnish the
clerk with a certified or sworn statement upon a form furnished by the clerk,
containing the data required to show the licensing bracket properly applicable
to such person during the year of such license and the license tax for such
period shall be finally ascertained and paid in the manner provided by this
chapter, after deducting from the payment found to be due, the amount paid at
the time such first license was issued. The clerk shall not issue to any such
person another license for the same or any other business until such person
shall have furnished to him the written statement and paid the license tax as
required in this chapter.
   C.   If the amount of the license tax to be paid by such applicant is
graduated according to some sliding scale other than gross receipts, the
applicant shall furnish to the clerk for his guidance in ascertaining the
amount of license tax to be paid by him, a certified or sworn statement upon a
form provided by the clerk, setting forth such information as may be therein
required and as may be necessary properly to determine the amount of license
tax to be paid by the applicant and which statement shall show, among other
things, the number of vehicles or tonnage thereof, the number of seats, chairs,
rooms, tables or other units used or involved in such person's business as of
the time of filing such application. Such person shall thereupon pay the
required license tax in advance, computed in accordance with the information
contained in such statement.
   D.   In all cases, such applicant shall upon filing his application, pay not
less than the prescribed minimum license fee in advance, without being prorated
to cover the remaining portion of the current license period; except any person
applying for a license after the 1st of November, shall pay a fee of one-half
the annual fee provided in this chapter. Persons paying on gross receipts and
applying after September 1st shall pay on the gross receipts attributable to
business during the license period. (Prior code § 5.04.080)
5.04.090 Written statement—Renewal.
   A.   In all cases, where the amount of license tax to be paid is based upon
gross receipts or is graduated according to some other sliding scale, the
applicant for a renewal of a license shall submit to the clerk for his guidance
in ascertaining the amount of the license tax to be paid by the applicant a
written statement upon a form to be provided by the clerk, sworn to before the
clerk, his deputies or assistants, or by any person authorized to administer
oaths, or certified under the penalties of perjury to be true and correct,
setting forth such information concerning the applicant's business during the
preceding license period as may be required by the clerk to enable him to
ascertain the amount of license tax to be paid by said applicant pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, and such statement shall be used as the basis
for determining the amount of license tax to be paid by the applicant for the
renewal period.
   B.   Where the license to be paid under this chapter is based upon gross
receipts, only one such statement need be filed during any license year, unless
the clerk requires a corrected statement to be filed, which statement shall be
filed at the time the first license is procured, as proved in Section
5.04.080, and thereafter on or before the 15th day of May of each succeeding
year. (Prior code § 5.04.090)
5.04.100 Statements not conclusive.
   A.   No statement shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein,
nor shall the filing of the same preclude the city from collecting by
appropriate action such sum as is actually due and payable under this chapter.
   B.   The information furnished or secured pursuant to this section, or
Sections
5.04.080 and
5.04.090, shall be confidential. Any unwarranted disclosure or use of such
information by any officer or employee of the city shall constitute a
misdemeanor and such officer or employee shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of this chapter. (Prior code § 5.04.100)
5.04.110 Additional permit required for business on city property.
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the possession of a
business license shall not authorize any person to operate any business on or
within city sidewalks, streets, parking lots, piers, beaches or any other
property under the jurisdiction or control of the city unless and until the
person also holds a then valid permit, lease, or other written authorization
from the city to operate the business on the property.
   B.   A business operating at a fixed location on private property within the
city pursuant to a then valid business license may display wares on the public
sidewalk directly fronting the business as authorized by Ordinance 320 as
amended by Ordinance 86-16. (Prior code § 5.04.105)
5.04.120 Failure to file statement or correct statement.
   A.   If any person fails to file any required statement within the time
prescribed, or if after demand therefor made by the clerk, he fails to file a
corrected statement, the clerk may determine the amount of license tax due from
such person by means of such information as he may be able to obtain.
   B.   In case such a determination is made, the clerk shall give a notice of
the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the
United States Post Office at Pismo Beach, California, postage prepaid,
addressed to the person so assessed at his last known address. Such person may,
within ten days after the mailing or serving of such notice, make application
in writing to the clerk for a hearing on the amount of the license tax. If such
application is made, or if application is not made within the time prescribed,
the clerk must cause the matter to be set for hearing within fifteen days
before the council. The clerk shall give at least ten days' notice to such
person of the time and place of hearing in the manner prescribed above for the
service of notice of assessment. The council shall consider all evidence
produced, and written notice of its findings thereon; which findings shall be
final, shall be served upon the applicant in the manner prescribed above for
the service of notice of assessment. (Prior code § 5.04.110)
5.04.130 Appeal.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of an administrative officer or agency
with respect to the issuance or refusal to issue such license may appeal to the
council by filing a notice of appeal with the clerk of the council. The council
shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing such appeal. The clerk shall
give notice to such person of the time and place of hearing by serving it
personally or by depositing it in the United States Post Office at Pismo Beach,
postage prepaid, addressed to such person at his last known address. (Prior
code § 5.04.120)
5.04.140 Duty of police officers.
   All police officers are appointed inspectors of licenses and in addition to
their several duties as police officers, are required to examine all places of
business and persons liable to pay a license and to see that such licenses are
taken out, and shall have and exercise the power:
   A.   To make arrests for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter;
   B.   To enter free of charge, at any time, any place of business for which a
license is required by this chapter and to demand the exhibition of such
license for the current term by any person engaged or employed in the
transaction of such business and if such person shall then and there fail to
exhibit such license, such person shall be liable to the penalty provided for a
violation of this chapter. (Prior code § 5.04.130)
5.04.150 Conviction will not excuse payment.
   The conviction and punishment of any person for transacting any business
without a license, shall not excuse or exempt such person from the payment of
any license due or unpaid at the time of such conviction, together with all
penalties due as in this chapter provided, and nothing in this chapter shall
prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the provisions of this
chapter. (Prior code § 5.04.140)
5.04.160 Penalties for failure to pay tax when due.
   For failure to pay a license tax when due, the clerk shall add a penalty of
five percent of said license tax on the fifteenth day of each month thereafter,
providing that the amount of such penalty to be added shall in no event exceed
fifty percent of the amount of the license tax due. (Prior code § 5.04.150)
5.04.170 Gross receipt fees.
   Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, every person who engages in
business within the city shall pay an annual business tax based upon gross
receipts in accordance with the following schedule:
Gross Receipt Bracket  Fee Amount   
0-- 25,000              $20.00
25,001-- 50,000         30.00
50,001-- 75,000         40.00
75,001--100,000         50.00
100,001--125,000        60.00
125,001--150,000        65.00
150,001--175,000        70.00
175,001--200,000        75.00
200,001--225,000        80.00
225,001--250,000        85.00
250,001--275,000        90.00
275,001--300,000        95.00
300,001--750,000        $95.00 plus $10.00 per each $50,000 additional or
                        portion thereof over $300,001
750,001 and up          $230.00 plus $20.00 per each $50,000 additional or
                        portion thereof over 750,001
 
(Ord. 87-10 § 2, 1987)
5.04.180 Rental unit operation.
   A.   Every person carrying on the business of keeping, operating or managing
three or more rental units available for rental in the city shall pay an annual
license fee as follows:
 
Units            Annual License Fee
3-- 6            $30.00
7--10            40.00
11--25           50.00
26--50           60.00
51 units or more 70.00
 
   B.   For the purpose of this section, a "rental unit" means a residential
unit having facilities for permanent residential needs of the family within
such residence unit. The number of units shall be based on the total number of
units in all buildings operated by the licensee within the city; provided,
however, that a unit actually occupied by the licensee or by his agent or
employee as manager of the apartment house shall not be counted as a unit for
purposes of this provision. (Prior code § 5.04.185)
5.04.190 Contractors.
   A.   Every person transacting and carrying on the business of contracting
shall pay an annual license fee for the particular type thereof as follows:
   1.   General contractor, thirty-five dollars per year or ten dollars per
job;
   2.   Electric or plumbing contractor, thirty dollars per year or ten dollars
per job;
   3.   Subcontractor or specialty contractor, twenty-five dollars per year or
ten dollars per job;
   4.   Pipeline, sewer, grading, street, paving, house-moving, trenching or
excavating contractor, forty dollars per year or fifteen dollars per job.
   B.   If any person, transacting the businesses enumerated in this section,
shall carry on a retail, wholesale or jobbing business, or any other business,
he shall be required to obtain a license and pay the tax specified for such
other business, in addition to the license specified in this section.
   C.   Any such contractor who does not maintain a fixed place of business
within the city shall be required to obtain a license and pay the tax specified
in this section, with respect to any contract performed by him within the city.
(Prior code § 5.04.190)
5.04.200 Tax--Flat amount.
   Every person carrying on the businesses enumerated in this section shall pay
an annual license tax as follows:
Business                                     Annual Fee ($)   
Agency modeling                                20.00
Archery range                                  50.00
Arts and crafts, instruction                   10.00
Boats for hire                                 10.00
Boats, repair and storage                      20.00
Cleaning buildings (other than by hand power)  20.00
Dancing school                                 20.00
Dancing, public hall (permits teaching)        50.00
Distributing agency                            20.00
Employment agency                              20.00
Finance companies                              50.00
Fortuneteller                                  100.00
Gardening                                      20.00
Golf driving range                             50.00
Handicraft                                     10.00
Hospital                                       100.00
House cleaning                                 20.00
House moving or wrecking                       50.00
Instructor, private                            10.00
Janitorial service                             20.00
Parking and storage (lots or garages)          10.00
Pawnbroker                                     100.00
Pest control (no fixed place of business       25.00)
Piano tuner                                    10.00
Sanitary supplies or service                   20.00
Shell grinding and polishing                   10.00
Shoe-shining parlor                            10.00
Signs, sale of (no fixed place of business)    50.00
Swimming pool                                  10.00
Tools, sharpening (no fixed place of business) 20.00
Transportation agency                          20.00
Window cleaning                                10.00
 
(Prior code § 5.04.210)
5.04.210 Trucking.
   Every person carrying on the business of operating any truck, trailer or
other vehicle for the transportation of baggage, freight, household goods,
merchandise or materials for hire, which may or may not operate over a defined
route within the city, or between any points, one terminus of which is within
the city, shall pay for each vehicle an annual license tax of twenty dollars
per vehicle.
   A.   For purposes of this section, a tractor-semitrailer combination shall
be classified as one vehicle.
   B.   Each trailer, not accompanied by a truck-trailer shall pay an annual
license fee of three dollars.
   C.   Every vehicle licensed under this section shall have conspicuously
displayed thereon the license furnished by the collector.
   D.   No fee under this section shall be required for the operation of any
motor vehicle or equipment along the streets of this city if such operation is
merely occasional and incidental to a business conducted elsewhere; provided,
however, that no operation shall be deemed merely occasional if trips or hauls
are made beginning or ending at points within this city upon an average more
than once a week in any quarter, and a business shall be deemed to be conducted
within this city if an office or agency is maintained here or if transportation
business is solicited here. (Prior code § 5.04.220)
5.04.220 License tax per vehicle.
   A.   Every person with a fixed place of business in this city and carrying
on the business hereinafter enumerated, shall pay an annual license tax per
vehicle kept or stored on the business premises as follows:
 
Business                            Annual Fee   
Ambulance service                     $10.00
Automobile or trucks for hire or rent 25.00
Scooters or motor bikes, rental       10.00
 
   B.   Businesses in the categories enumerated in subsection A which merely
operate a rental service by obtaining vehicles from rental agencies out of the
city as orders are received, and who do not store vehicles on the business
premises any longer than necessary for the return of the vehicles to the rental
agencies, shall pay only the annual fee for one vehicle.
   C.   Every person not having a fixed place of business in the city who makes
retail deliveries of goods, wares or merchandise house to house over routes to
regular customers, shall pay an annual license tax of thirty-five dollars for
the first vehicle and fifteen dollars for each additional vehicle.
   D.   Every person not having a fixed place of business in the city who makes
wholesale deliveries of goods, wares, merchandise or services to businesses or
professions located within the city shall pay an annual license tax of thirty-
five dollars for the first vehicle and fifteen dollars for each additional
vehicle. This subsection shall include, but not be limited to linen and towel
supply, uniform and overall supplies, petroleum products, ready mix concrete,
repair service and towing service.
   E.   The number of vehicles used in computing the amount of license tax
payable under this chapter shall be determined by the average number of
vehicles regularly used in the conduct of such business in the city on any one
day.
   F.   No fee under this section shall be required if the vehicle is operated
merely occasionally or incidentally to a business conducted elsewhere.
   G.   Any licensee to whom a license has been issued, which license is
determined by the number of vehicles used by said licensee in the conduct of
his business in this city, shall prominently display within such vehicle a
sticker, device, sign or license facsimile used by the city for identifying
such business. (Prior code § 5.04.230)
5.04.230 Bowling alleys and pool rooms.
   Every person carrying on the business of a public bowling alley, pool or
billiard room, shall pay an annual license tax per table or alley of six
dollars. (Prior code § 5.04.240)
5.04.240 Mechanical amusement device—Occupational license fee.
   Every operator of mechanical amusement devices shall pay an occupational
license fee to the city in the sum of one hundred dollars per year. (Prior code
§ 5.04.270)
5.04.250 Mechanical amusement device—Location license fee.
   In addition to the occupational license fee required by Section
5.04.240, each operator shall pay a location license fee in the sum of five
dollars per year for each mechanical amusement device rented out or placed by
such operator in the city. (Prior code § 5.04.280)
5.04.260 Mechanical amusement device—Location owner.
   A location owner shall be exempt from the payment of the full occupational
license fee required of an operator. Every location owner shall pay a license
fee for each mechanical amusement device owned, used and operated by him, in
the sum of five dollars per year. (Prior code §§ 5.04.280, 5.04.290)
5.04.270 Mechanical amusement device—Posting license.
   The license issued for each mechanical amusement device shall be
conspicuously posted or attached to such mechanical amusement device. The
location owner shall be responsible for the posting, or attachment, at all
times of a current business license for each mechanical amusement device open
to the public at his place of business. (Prior code § 5.04.300)
5.04.280 Illegal to place or use unlicensed amusement device.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or install any unlicensed amusement
device on or within any business premises or location. (Prior code § 5.04.301)
5.04.290 Illegal to permit the placement or use of unlicensed amusement device.
   It shall be unlawful for any location owner, or any other person in control
of any business premises, to permit or allow the placement, or the use by the
public, with or without a fee or charge, of any amusement device on said
premises unless said device is properly licensed for such placement or use.
(Prior code § 5.04.302)
5.04.300 Amusement hall—Mechanical amusement devices.
   Every business location with three or more mechanical amusement devices
licensed under the provisions of Sections
5.04.250 and
5.04.260, or either of them, shall be deemed to be an amusement hall, and shall
be required to obtain a separate business license therefor. Such licenses shall
specify the number of mechanical amusement devices then authorized at that
location. The amusement hall licenses shall not exempt or excuse any business
at said location from licensing requirements and payment of license fees for
any sales, service or other business activities required to be separately
licensed under other provisions of this code. (Prior code § 5.04.305)
5.04.310 Adult supervision required on premises.
   It is unlawful for any amusement hall to be open to the public unless there
is then on the premises in the general area where the mechanical amusement
devices are located an approved adult person with the duty to supervise and
control the conduct of those members of the public in said area. An approved
person shall mean a person previously approved by the chief of police in
writing as being of good moral character; the chief shall give special
consideration to previous criminal convictions involving drugs or moral
turpitude. Such written approval shall be displayed whenever requested by a
police officer. The chief of police is authorized to develop forms and
procedures necessary to assure adequate background information before approving
any such person. (Prior code § 5.04.306)
5.04.320 Mechanical amusement device—Nuisance—Impoundment.
   A.   Any mechanical amusement device operated or maintained to be operated
in violation of any law of the state, or in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed to be a public nuisance, and any such
mechanical amusement device so operated or maintained to be operated shall be
impounded by any peace officer, and all peace officers of the city are charged
with the duty of impounding the same.
   If any such mechanical amusement device so impounded is one which may be
legally operated under the provisions of this chapter and is seized for the
failure of the owner or operator to secure the proper license, such mechanical
amusement device shall not be released until a license for such mechanical
amusement device has been obtained and the fee therefor paid, together with a
penalty of twenty dollars.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any mechanical
amusement device or the use or operation thereof violates or has violated any
law of the state or any ordinance of the city, such mechanical amusement device
shall be confiscated, and shall be dealt with as provided by the judgment or
order of the court.
   B.   In addition to any and all remedies provided by law, including
subsection A, and completely separate therefrom, the chief of police, or his
designated agents, may disconnect, lock, or otherwise disable any amusement
device found in any business open to the public without a then current license
authorizing its placement and use at the location of said business. The police
department shall develop or procure an effective method of locking or disabling
any such unauthorized amusement device. All costs of such locking or disabling
shall become a charge or lien against the amusement device, and shall be paid
in full prior to the licensing of said device, or prior to removal of said
device from said commercial location. Any owner of the amusement device, and
any person owning or operating the business where any such device is located,
may appeal to the city council any action by the police department
disconnecting, locking or disabling an allegedly unauthorized amusement device;
provided, however, that such device shall not be used pending a decision by the
city council. (Prior code § 5.04.310)
5.04.330 Slot machine or gambling device unlawful.
   This chapter shall not be construed to permit the licensing of any slot
machine or gambling device declared illegal by the Penal Code of the state; nor
shall any license issued under the terms of this chapter permit the operation,
possession or use of any slot machine or gambling device declared illegal by
the Penal Code of the state. (Prior code § 5.04.320)
5.04.340 License applications for amusement devices and card games.
   All applications for any occupational mechanical amusement device license
required by this chapter shall be made in writing and upon such form as may be
prescribed by the council. No such license as is referred to in this chapter
shall be issued except upon order of the council. The council may limit the
number of such licenses issued to such number as in its judgment shall be for
the best interests of the public peace, safety, and welfare. (Ord. O-2025-002 §
18, 2025; Prior code § 5.04.330)
5.04.350 Advertising signs or billboards.
   Every person, firm, association or corporation engaged in the erection or
maintenance of any advertising signs or billboards within the city shall pay an
annual fee of eight dollars for each single face sign, sixteen dollars for each
double face sign, twenty-four dollars for each triple or more face sign;
provided, that any person erecting or maintaining a sign advertising his/her
own business, which said sign is not located on the premises being advertised,
shall pay an annual fee for such sign of five dollars per sign. (Prior code §
5.04.340)
5.04.360 Helicopters.
   Every person, firm, association or corporation conducting or maintaining a
helicopter business within the city shall pay an annual fee of twenty-five
dollars for each helicopter being used in the operation of said business;
provided, however, that before any license shall be issued for the operation of
such a business, a permit therefor must be first obtained from the council; and
provided, further, that any person seeking a license for the operation of such
business or the securing of such a permit shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   The applicant therefor shall file with the clerk a written application
setting forth the number of helicopters to be operated therein, the name and
address of the applicant and a statement that he is a citizen of the United
States.
   B.   Said applicant shall, upon being granted a license or permit as
provided in this section, deposit with the city clerk a bond with some
sufficient surety, in the amount of one thousand dollars, which bond shall be
to the city and shall be conditioned that the applicant thereof will observe
all of the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state.
   C.   Before any such license or permit shall be issued, the applicant
therefor shall satisfy the council that he is protected by public liability and
property damage insurance in amounts respectively of not less than three
hundred thousand dollars and fifty thousand dollars on each helicopter; and,
provided further, that no such license shall continue to run, be effective or
remain in force in the event that said insurance is cancelled or has lapsed or
for any other reason becomes ineffective.
   D.   Every person, firm, association, or corporation conducting or
maintaining a business of operating or flying a helicopter or similar device
for airborne flight for hire, taking off or landing within the city, shall be
subject to the provisions contained in this section.
   E.   Each landing field, airport, or heliport or helistop used by such
person, firm, association, or corporation in the conduct of said business
constitutes a "branch establishment" as described in Section
5.04.030, and shall require a separate license as set forth in that section.
   F.   Except in an emergency, no helicopter or similar device shall be landed
at any place other than an airport, aircraft landing field, heliport or
helistop as designated in the license, or licenses issued to the applicant
hereunder.
   G.   No dispensing, storage, or transfer apparatus for flammable or
explosive liquids shall be located on any airport, aircraft landing field,
heliport or helistop unless they are in conformance with the applicable
provisions of the Health and Safety Code of the state, any ordinances of the
county, any statutes of the state, or any rules and regulations of federal
agencies having jurisdiction over airport, aircraft landing field, heliports or
helistops.
   H.   Any helicopter or similar device operated or flown within the city
limits must be equipped with a muffler or muffling device so as to prevent any
loud, unusual, or annoying noise and must be flown or operated on diversified
patterns over the least densely populated areas of the city as far as is
practicable.
   I.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every person, firm,
association or corporation conducting or maintaining a business of operating or
flying a helicopter or similar device for airborne flight for hire shall be
subject to the provisions, rules, and regulations contained in this chapter.
(Prior code § 5.04.350)
5.04.370 Art shows.
   The following license fees are required when conducting an art show:
   A.   Twenty dollars for the art show;
   B.   Ten dollars per exhibitor for the maximum number of exhibitors at any
one show during the year. (Prior code § 5.04.355)
5.04.380 Circuses and carnivals.
   A.   Every person carrying on the business of conducting a menagerie or dog
or pony show shall pay a license fee of fifty dollars per day; a circus shall
pay a license fee of one hundred dollars per day for one ring, one hundred
twenty-five dollars per day for two rings, and one hundred fifty dollars per
day for three rings or more, and for each and every sideshow or aftershow in
connection therewith, the license fee shall be twenty-five dollars per day, and
for each concession in connection therewith the license fee shall be ten
dollars per day.
   B.   Every person, carrying on the business of conducting acrobatic or
theatrical exhibitions under canvas, shall pay a license fee of fifty dollars
per day.
   C.   Every person conducting or managing a circus procession or parade, and
not having a license for conducting, managing or carrying on a circus within
the city limits, shall pay a license fee of twenty-five dollars for each such
procession or parade.
   D.   Every person engaged in the business of conducting a fair, street
carnival or exhibition in the city, shall pay a license fee of two hundred
fifty dollars for each and every day or portion thereof during which such fair,
street carnival or exhibition is conducted.
   E.   Every person carrying on a ferris wheel, scenic railway, merry-go-
round, swing, kiddie car, airplane or similar amusement device or amusement
ride, shall pay a license fee for each such device as follows:
   1.   If located in any public park or grounds in the city, fifteen dollars
per year;
   2.   If not located in any public park or grounds in the city, five dollars
per day or fifteen dollars per year. (Prior code § 5.04.360)
5.04.390 Junk collector.
   Every person carrying on the business of a junk collector without a fixed
place of business shall pay a license tax of five dollars per day or fifty
dollars per year. (Prior code § 5.04.370)
5.04.400 Advertising by posting.
   Every person carrying on the business of advertising by posting, sticking,
tacking, affixing, or painting bills or signs to or upon fences, buildings or
other structures, except billboards or advertising signboards, shall pay a
license tax of five dollars per day. However, said posting shall not be allowed
upon any utility poles. Before a license is issued under this section, the
applicant must first obtain a permit from the building inspector of the city.
(Prior code § 5.04.380)
5.04.410 Transient photographers.
   A.   Every person carrying on the business of a photographer, who has no
fixed place of business in the city shall pay an annual license fee of sixty
dollars.
   B.   Every person engaged in the business of soliciting or canvassing or
taking orders for the taking or making of photographs or views, whether the
photographer has or has not a fixed place of business in the city, shall pay a
license fee of ten dollars per day for each such canvasser or solicitor;
provided, however, that no license shall be required for any person engaged in
soliciting such orders when the same are subject to interstate commerce laws or
regulations.
   Before a license is issued under this section, the applicant must obtain a
permit from the police department if required so to do. (Prior code § 5.04.390)
5.04.420 Wrestling or boxing.
   Every person carrying on the business of conducting wrestling or boxing
exhibitions, shall pay a license fee of twenty dollars per exhibition or one
hundred dollars per year. (Prior code § 5.04.400)
5.04.430 Museums.
   Every person carrying on the business of conducting a museum to which a
fixed admission fee is charged, shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred
dollars per year; museums without a fixed admission fee shall pay an annual
license fee of ten dollars per year, except that no license shall be required
for any museum conducted by the state or any political subdivision or by any
school or church. (Prior code § 5.04.410)
5.04.440 Motion picture theaters.
   Every person carrying on the business of operating a motion picture theater
shall pay an annual license tax as follows:
   A.   Indoor theater:
   1.   For a theater having one to seven hundred seats, inclusive, sixty
dollars;
   2.   For a theater having seven hundred one to one thousand two hundred
seats, inclusive, one hundred forty dollars;
   3.   For a theater having one thousand two hundred one to one thousand five
hundred seats, inclusive, one hundred fifty dollars;
   4.   For a theater having over one thousand five hundred seats, three
hundred dollars.
   B.   Outdoor theater:
   1.   For a theater having one to five hundred car stalls, inclusive, ninety
dollars;
   2.   For a theater having five hundred one to seven hundred fifty car
stalls, inclusive, one hundred twenty dollars;
   3.   For a theater having seven hundred fifty-one to one thousand car
stalls, inclusive, one hundred fifty dollars;
   4.   For a theater having over one thousand car stalls, one hundred eighty
dollars. (Prior code § 5.04.430)
5.04.450 Auctioneers.
   A.   Every person carrying on the business of an auctioneer shall pay a
license fee of one hundred dollars for each auction and an additional fifty
dollars for each day any such auction is conducted in excess of three days.
   B.   This section shall not apply to an auctioneer conducting an auction
room or store in the city. (Prior code § 5.04.440)
5.04.460 Fire, wreck or bankrupt sale.
   A.   Every person conducting a fire, wreck or bankrupt sale shall pay a
license fee of one hundred dollars for each such sale, and an additional fifty
dollars for each day any such sale is conducted in excess of three days.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, a "fire or wreck sale" means and
includes the sale of goods, wares, or merchandise, salvaged from a fire, wreck,
or other calamity, or a sale of goods, wares or merchandise advertised as a
fire or wreck sale.
   C.   For the purpose of this chapter, a "bankrupt sale" shall also include a
sale for the benefit of creditors, either directly or indirectly, or a sale
advertised as a bankrupt sale or sale for the benefit of creditors.
   D.   No license shall be required under the provisions of this section for
the sale of merchandise salvaged from any fire, wreck or other calamity
occurring within the city. (Prior code § 5.04.450)
5.04.470 Sellers of home-grown products.
   Every farmer, poultryman or horticulturist carrying on the business of
selling at wholesale or retail produce grown or raised wholly by himself or his
immediate family shall pay a license fee of one dollar per year. This provision
shall not apply to nurseries or other commercial establishments which buy
produce for resale as well as selling their own produce. (Prior code §
5.04.460)
5.04.480 Charitable organizations.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed or construed to require
the payment of a license fee to conduct, manage, or carry on any business,
occupation or activity from any institution or organization which is conducted,
managed or carried on wholly for the benefit of charitable purposes or from
which profit is not derived, either directly or indirectly, by any individual,
firm or corporation; nor shall any license fee be required for the conducting
of any entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture on scientific, historical,
literary, religious or moral subjects within the city, whenever the receipts of
any such entertainment, concert, exhibition, or lecture are to be appropriated
to any church or school or to any religious or benevolent purpose; nor shall
any license fee be required for the conducting of any entertainment, dance,
concert, exhibition or lecture by any religious, charitable, fraternal,
educational, military, state, county or municipal organization, or association
whenever the receipts of any such entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or
lecture are to be appropriated for the purpose and objects for which such
organization or association was formed and from which profit is not derived,
either directly or indirectly, by any individual, firm or corporation;
provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be deemed to exempt any
such organization or association from complying with the provisions of any
ordinance of the city requiring a permit from the council or any commission or
officer to conduct, manage or carry on any profession, trade, calling or
occupation. (Prior code § 5.04.470)
5.04.490 Disabled persons.
   Any person who is unable to obtain a livelihood by manual labor, due to
physical disability, may, at the discretion of the council obtain a license to
hawk or peddle any goods, wares or merchandise without payment of any license
tax or fee, by applying to said council and producing a certificate from a
local physician showing the applicant to be physically disabled. (Prior code §
5.04.480)
5.04.500 Garage sales.
   No license shall be required for a person to sell from his own personal
residence, for a period of not to exceed four days in any calendar year,
household furniture, furnishings, appliances and goods belonging to the
occupant of the residence and not acquired for the purpose of sale. Such sales
shall be referred to as "garage sales." Any sale taking place for more than
four days, whether consecutive or not, during any calendar year, or otherwise
not strictly complying with the provisions of this section, shall be deemed to
constitute the conduct of a business as defined in Section
5.04.010, and shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable provisions
of this chapter and of the city zoning laws. (Prior code § 5.04.490)
5.04.510 Closing hours for recreational-type businesses.
   A.   Except as provided in this section, none of the following business
licenses under this chapter shall operate or be open to the public for any
purpose at any time between the hours of two a.m. and six a.m. of any one day:
   1.   Shooting gallery;
   2.   Theaters, not motion pictures;
   3.   Gymnasium;
   4.   Physical culture;
   5.   Skating rink;
   6.   Archery range;
   7.   Dancing;
   8.   Public hall;
   9.   Golf driving range;
   10.   Swimming pool;
   11.   Bowling alleys and pool rooms;
   12.   Amusement halls;
   13.   Circuses and carnivals;
   14.   Wrestling or boxing;
   15.   Museums;
   16.   Motion picture theaters.
   B.   The council may grant special temporary permits exempting a business
from the limitation set forth in subsection A for bona fide marathon, public
benefit or similar special events, upon such terms and conditions as the
council deems necessary or appropriate for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Amended during 1991 codification; Ord. 90-19 § 2(F), 1990;
prior code § 5.04.510)
5.04.520 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or knowingly or
intentionally misrepresenting to any officer or employee of this city any
material fact in procuring the license or permit provided for in this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment
in the county jail for a period of not more than six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. (Prior code § 5.04.500)
Chapter 5.05 ARTS AND CRAFTS SHOWS
5.05.010 Arts and crafts show ordinance.
   This chapter shall be known as the arts and crafts show ordinance. (Ord. 315
(part), 1983)
5.05.020 Declaration of policy.
   The city council finds and declares that the public welfare and interest
will be served by the establishment of public arts and crafts shows in various
areas of the city to provide, among other things, recreational and cultural
encouragement to artists and craftsmen, recreational and cultural advantages to
the public at large, and the encouragement of tourist interest and trade to the
economic benefit of the community at large. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.030 Applicability of other ordinances.
   All arts and crafts shows shall comply with the provisions contained in
Article 17 of the municipal code, also referred to as the city of Pismo Beach
zoning ordinance. All shows, show operators and show exhibitors shall meet the
standards, shall have obtained the appropriate permits and licenses and shall
have paid the applicable fees and charges pertaining to the operation of arts
and crafts shows. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.040 Show established.
   Public arts and crafts shows are established and entitled the "Pismo Beach
Public Arts and Crafts Show." Public shows shall be reviewed and authorized by
the city parks, recreation and beautification commission. All private shows
conducted by private operators shall be reviewed and authorized by the city
planning commission and shall be subject to the permits procedures established
in the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.050 Definitions.
   "Private arts and crafts shows" means shows operated by private operators
generally on private property pursuant to the use permit stipulations of the
zoning ordinance.
   "Public arts and crafts shows" means shows operated by the city or by an
individual or group authorized by the city for such operation on public
property. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.060 Time, dates and location.
   A.   The public arts and crafts shows may take place from ten a.m. to dusk
on weekends of each week, and on legal holidays that are recognized by the city
at the specific locations designated by the city council. Only public arts and
crafts shows or art shows operated by bonafide nonprofit organizations may be
operated on city property.
   B.   Times, dates and locations of private shows shall be established by the
city planning commission under the individual use permit. (Ord. 315 (part),
1983)
5.05.070 Administration.
   A.   The parks, recreation and beautification commission shall administer
the public arts and crafts shows subject to the provisions of this chapter.
They may delegate that responsibility to an approved group or individual or
organization who they and the city council have approved to operate the public
show.
   B.   Private shows shall be administered by the show operator and it shall
be his or their responsibility to ensure that all requirements are met. (Ord.
315 (part), 1983)
5.05.080 Public show operator.
   Should the parks, recreation and beautification commission delegate the
responsibility for operation of the public arts and crafts show to another
individual group or organization, that individual or group shall also:
   A.   Receive approval of the city council;
   B.   Have adequate insurance for liability; and
   C.   Have a contract covering all of the specific requirements of the public
show operator and the distribution of any revenues to both the city and the
operator. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.090 Rules and regulations.
   The city council shall promulgate rules and regulations for the
administration of the public arts and crafts shows in addition to the
provisions of this chapter, not inconsistent therewith, as are reasonable and
necessary to implement its objectives. In promulgating these rules and
regulations, the city council may consider any advice or suggestions made by
the parks, recreation and beautification commission. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.100 Permits for arts and crafts shows.
   Public arts and crafts shows shall meet the requirements and standards
established in the zoning ordinance for arts and crafts shows. Such public
shows shall be subject to the approval of the parks, recreation and
beautification commission and shall not require a conditional use permit. All
shows conducted by private operators or organizations shall be subject to the
permits prescribed in the zoning ordinance. Such private shows must also meet
the requirements for fees and proper decorum addressed in the rules and
regulations. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.110 Permitted exhibits.
   All works exhibited at any arts and crafts show shall be individually hand
produced by the exhibitors and shall meet the requirements set forth in the
zoning ordinance. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.120 Maximum number of exhibitors.
   The city council shall set the maximum number of exhibitors based on
recommendations from the parks, recreation and beautification commission,
consistent with adequate display of works exhibited and the safety and
convenience of pedestrian traffic within each area designated for a public arts
and crafts show. The planning commission shall limit the number of exhibitors
at private arts and crafts shows. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.130 Application to exhibit.
   The parks, recreation and beautification commission or its delegated
operator shall approve all applications for exhibitors if the applicant shows
to their satisfaction that the applicant's arts or crafts meet the requirements
set forth in the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.140 Requirement for payment of fees.
   A.   If the exhibitor does not propose to sell his works, the license issued
to the exhibitor shall be plainly marked or stamped "NO SELLING PERMITTED," and
there shall be a fee of not more than five dollars, as determined by the city
council, payable by the applicant for the license.
   B.   If the exhibitor proposed to sell his work, the permit issued to that
exhibitor shall be plainly marked or stamped "SELLING PERMITTED," and the
applicant shall pay the following fee:
   1.   Exhibitor: one time only, fifteen dollars;
   2.   Exhibitor: yearly fee, thirty-five dollars;
   3.   Show operator: yearly fee, fifty dollars;
   These fees apply to both public and private art shows.
   C.   Art shows on any public property would include a nominal space rental
based on and somewhat lower than typical art gallery rentals on a square
footage basis. The rental fee shall be established by the city council, upon
recommendation from the parks, recreation and beautification commission.
   D.   The fees set forth herein may be amended from time to time by
resolution of the city council.
   E.   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be renewed, at expiration,
for additional one-year periods, upon the payment of the fee provided in this
section. No license shall be effective or valid until the fee required by this
section has been paid. All permits shall be clearly displayed by the operator
and exhibitors at both private and public shows. These fees do not include any
conditional use permit processing fees for operators of private arts and crafts
shows. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.150 State Board of Equalization permits.
   Prior to exhibiting any art or crafts for sale at the arts and crafts show,
all exhibitors shall first obtain a sellers permit from the California State
Board of Equalization. The permit shall be displayed by exhibitor. Submittal of
information regarding sales tax shall be the responsibility of the arts and
crafts show operators who shall keep accurate records for each exhibitor. (Ord.
315 (part), 1983)
5.05.160 Revocation of exhibitor business license.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or the rules of regulations
promulgated pursuant to this chapter may be grounds for the revocation of the
license issued either to the exhibitor or operator without refund of the
license fee. Such action may be appealed to the city council at its next
regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
5.05.170 Penalty for violations.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by:
   A.   A fine not exceeding fifty dollars for a first violation;
   B.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars for a second violation of the
same ordinance within one year;
   C.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars for each additional
violation of the same ordinance within one year. (Ord. 315 (part), 1983)
Chapter 5.08 BINGO
5.08.010 Definitions.
   Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   "Authorized organizations" refers only to:
   1.   Organizations exempted from the payment of bank and corporation tax by
Sections 23701(a), 23701(b), 23701(d), 23701(e), 23701(f) and 23701(g) of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code;
   2.   Mobile home park associations; and
   3.   Senior citizens organizations.
   "Bingo" means any game of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of
designated numbers or symbols on a card which conform to numbers or symbols
selected at random. (Prior code § 5.18.010)
5.08.020 Authorized organizations—License required--Regulations.
   Authorized organizations are authorized to conduct bingo games pursuant to a
license issued by the director of finance of the city and in accordance with
the requirements of the provisions of California Penal Code Section 326.5,
which provide as follows:
   A.   An authorized organization shall conduct a bingo game only on property
owned or leased by it, and which property is used by such organization for an
office or for performance of the purposes for which the organization is
organized. For purposes of this section, property owned or leased by the
organization need not be used or leased exclusively by such organization.
   B.   No minors shall be allowed to participate in any bingo game.
   C.   All bingo games shall be open to the public and not just the members of
the authorized organization responsible for the games.
   D.   All bingo games shall be operated and staffed only by members of the
authorized organization which organized it. Such members shall not receive a
profit, wage or salary from any bingo game. Only the organization authorized to
conduct a bingo game shall operate such game, or participate in the promotion,
supervision or any other administrative phase of such game.
   E.   No individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity except
the organization authorized to conduct a bingo game shall hold a financial
interest in the conduct of such bingo game.
   F.   With respect to organizations exempt from payment of the bank and
corporation tax by the Revenue and Taxation Code, all profits derived from a
bingo game shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall not be co-
mingled with any other fund or accounting. Such profits shall be used only for
charitable purposes. With respect to other organizations authorized to conduct
bingo games pursuant to this section, all proceeds derived from a bingo game
shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall not be co-mingled with any
other fund or account. Such proceeds shall be used only for charitable
purposes, except as follows:
   1.   Such proceeds may be used for prizes;
   2.   A portion of such proceeds may be used for rental of property, overhead
and administrative expenses;
   G.   No person shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game unless the
person is physically present at the time and place in which the bingo game is
being conducted.
   H.   The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo game
shall not exceed two hundred fifty dollars in cash or kind, or both, for each
separate game which is held. (Ord. 90-19 § 2(G) and (H), 1990: prior code §
5.18.020)
5.08.030 License—Application—Contents.
   Any application for a license to conduct bingo games shall contain the
following:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant organization;
   B.   A statement by the applicant that it is an authorized organization as
described in Section
5.08.010;
   C.   A certificate or determination of exemption under Section 23701 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or a letter of good standing from the Exemption
Division of the Franchise Tax Board in Sacramento, showing exemption under
Section 23701. If the eligibility for a bingo license is not determined by
Section 23701 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, then the applicant shall submit
such documents as required by the director of finance;
   D.   The exact location and street address of the property to be used by the
applicant for conducting the bingo game, and a statement that such property is
owned or leased by the applicant and that such property is used by the
applicant for its office or for the performance of the purpose for which the
applicant is organized;
   E.   A statement that the applicant agrees that the city, through its
authorized officers, shall have the right to examine and audit the applicant's
records described in Section
5.08.050 of this chapter. (Prior code § 5.18.030)
5.08.040 Licensing provisions.
   The license fee to be charged for an annual permit to conduct bingo games by
authorized organizations in the city shall be fifty dollars per annum, whether
for the initial license or for renewal. If an application for a license is
denied, one-half of any license fee paid shall be refunded to the organization.
Such license shall be issued only after written application for such license
has been filed with the director of finance of the city. Applications shall be
in writing on forms provided by the director of finance and shall be submitted
to the finance department no less than fourteen days prior to issuance of the
license. (Prior code § 5.18.040)
5.08.050 Licensee recordkeeping duties.
   The licensee shall keep full and accurate records of the income and expenses
which are authorized by this chapter. (Prior code § 5.18.050)
5.08.060 Profits and salaries prohibited.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to receive or pay a profit, wage or
salary from any bingo game authorized by Section 19 of Article IV of the State
Constitution. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions of
this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars,
which fine shall be deposited in the general fund of the city. A violation of
any other section of this chapter is a misdemeanor. (Prior code § 5.18.060)
5.08.070 Violation—Penalty.
   No person shall violate any provisions, or fail to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter. The city is empowered to bring an action to
enjoin any violation of this chapter. Any person or organization violating any
of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements
of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person or organization
convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions of this chapter, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment
in the county jail for a period not exceeding six months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. Each person or organization shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation or any
provision of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by such person
or organization and shall be punishable accordingly. (Prior code § 5.18.070)
Chapter 5.10 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Article I. General Provisions
5.10.010 Legislative purpose.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult-oriented businesses in
order to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the
city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including adult-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to adult-
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of adult-oriented entertainment to their intended
market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or
legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   The city council finds and determines as follows: On September 10, 1998, the
Ninth Circuit issued its opinion in Baby Tam & Co., Inc. v. City of Las Vegas,
154 F. 3d 1097 (1998), holding that adult use business licensing chapters are
required to provide for prompt hearing and prompt judicial review for persons
whose license or permit applications had been denied. On January 14, 2000, the
Ninth Circuit issued its opinion in Baby Tam & Co., Inc. v. City of Las Vegas,
No. 99-16809, making further holdings in this regard. The city council finds
that the time allowances in this chapter are the shortest fixed periods
compatible with the balancing between sound planning and land use and
protection of First Amendment freedoms. The city council finds that these time
frames are reasonable, in that the city is granting or denying an adult use
permit within seven days of the filing of a completed application for such
permit. After this filing of an appeal of a decision to grant, conditionally
grant, or deny an application, the city council conducts a public hearing on
such appeal and renders a written decision. The city council takes notice that
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.8 was adopted in direct
response to Baby Tam I and sets forth an expedited review process for review of
permits with any First Amendment protections. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.020 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter the words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by Title 17 of the Pismo Beach Municipal
Code which is adopted concurrently with this section and included herein as
though fully set forth at this point by this reference. Additional words and
phrases used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
   1.   "Adult-oriented business operator" or "operator" means a person who
supervises, manages, directs, organizes, controls or in any other way is
responsible for or in charge of the premises of an adult-oriented business or
the conduct of activities occurring on the premises thereof.
   2.   "Applicant" means a person who is required to file an application for a
permit under this chapter, including an individual owner, managing partner,
officer of a corporation, or other operator, manager, employee or agent of an
adult-oriented business.
   3.   "Bar" means any commercial establishment licensed by the State
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control to serve any alcoholic beverages on
the premises.
   4.   "Figure model" means any person who for pecuniary compensation,
consideration, hire or reward serves as a live human model for the purposes of
sexual stimulation of patrons, displays specified anatomical areas (see Title
17) to be observed, sketched, photographed, filmed, painted, sculpted or
otherwise depicted by persons paying such compensation or consideration.
   5.   "Health officer" means any duly authorized representative of the city
of Pismo Beach.
   6.   "Permittee" means the person to whom an adult-oriented business permit
is issued.
   7.   "Police chief" means the chief of police of the city of Pismo Beach or
any duly authorized representative thereof.
   8.   "Person" means any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm,
association, joint stock company, corporation, or combination of the above in
whatever form or character. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.030 Permits required.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to conduct or operate in the city of
Pismo Beach, the operation of an adult-oriented business unless the person
first obtains and continues to maintain in full force and effect a permit from
the city of Pismo Beach as herein required. (Adult-oriented business regulatory
permit)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in or participate in any live
performance depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual
activities in an adult-oriented business unless the person first obtains and
continues in full force and effect a permit from the city of Pismo Beach as
herein required. (Adult-oriented business performer permit)
   C.   The city's designee shall be the city manager or any other officer or
employee designated by the city manager to deal with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
Article II. Application and Permits
5.10.040 Adult-oriented business regulatory permit required.
   A.   Every person who proposes to maintain, operate or conduct an adult-
oriented business in the city of Pismo Beach shall file an application with the
city upon a form provided by the city of Pismo Beach and shall pay a filing
fee, as established by resolution adopted by the city council from time to
time, which shall not be refundable. The fee established may not exceed the
cost of processing the application.
   The city's designee is responsible for granting, denying, revoking,
suspending and canceling adult-oriented business permits for proposed or
existing adult-oriented businesses. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.050 Applications.
   A.   Adult-oriented business regulatory permits are nontransferable, except
in accordance with Section
5.10.080 of this chapter. Therefore, all applications shall include the
following information:
   1.   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his or
her legal name (including any aliases), address, and submit satisfactory
written proof that he or she is at least eighteen years of age.
   2.   If the applicant is a partnership, the partners shall state the
partnership's complete name, address, the names of all partners, whether the
partnership is general or limited.
   3.   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall provide its
complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is
in good standing under the laws of California, the names and capacity of all
officers and directors, the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
   B.   If the applicant is an individual, he or she shall sign the
application. If the applicant is other than an individual, an officer of the
business entity shall sign the application.
   C.   If the applicant intends to operate the adult-oriented business under a
name other than that of the applicant, the applicant shall file the fictitious
name of the adult-oriented business and show proof of registration of the
fictitious name.
   D.   A description of the type of adult-oriented business for which the
permit is requested and the proposed address where the adult-oriented business
will operate, plus the names and addresses of the owners and lessors of the
adult-oriented business site.
   E.   The address to which notice of action on the application is to be
mailed.
   F.   The names of all employees, independent contractors and other persons
who will perform at the adult-oriented business, who are required by Section
5.10.090 of this chapter to obtain an adult-oriented business performer license
(for ongoing reporting requirements see Section
5.10.090).
   G.   A sketch or diagram showing the interior configuration of the premises,
including a statement of the total floor area occupied by the adult-oriented
business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but must
be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior
of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
   H.   A diagram of the off-street parking areas and premises entries of the
adult-oriented business showing the location of the lighting system required by
Section
5.10.120 C of this chapter. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.060 Investigation and action on application.
   A.   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of the application
and permit fees, the city shall immediately stamp the application as received
and promptly investigate the information contained in the application to
determine whether the application is complete and whether the applicant shall
be issued an adult-oriented business regulatory permit.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the city, and upon
payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the city or its designee shall
immediately stamp the application as received on that date. Within two business
days of receipt the city shall determine whether or not the application is
complete. If the application is not complete the city shall promptly notify the
applicant of that fact. The time period for granting or denying a permit shall
be stayed during the period within which the application is incomplete.
   C.   Within fifteen days of receipt of the completed application, the city's
designee shall complete the investigation, grant or deny the application in
accordance with the provisions of this section, and so notify the applicant as
follows:
   1.   The city's designee shall write or stamp "granted" or "denied" on the
application and date and sign such notation.
   2.   If the application is denied, the city's designee shall attach to the
application a statement of the reasons for denial.
   3.   If the application is granted, the city's designee shall attach to the
application an adult-oriented business regulatory permit.
   4.   The application as granted or denied and the permit, if any, shall be
placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to the
applicant at the address stated in the application.
   D.   The city's designee shall grant the application and issue the adult-
oriented business regulatory permit upon findings that the proposed business
meets the location criteria of Title 17, unless the application is denied. The
permittee shall post the permit conspicuously in the adult-oriented business
premises.
   E.   If the city's designee grants the application or if the city's designee
neither grants nor denies the application within fifteen days after it is
stamped as received (except as provided in Section
5.10.050, the applicant may begin operating the adult-oriented business for
which the permit was sought subject to compliance with the development and
performance standards and requirements of Section
5.10.120 of this chapter. Compliance with all portions of the Pismo Beach
Municipal Code is a condition of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.070 Permit denial.
   The city's designee shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
   A.   The building, structure, equipment or location used by the business for
which an adult-oriented business regulatory permit is required does not comply
with the location or development and performance standards and requirements of
these regulations;
   B.   The applicant, his or her employee, agent, partner, director, officer,
shareholder or manager has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the application for an adult-oriented business
regulatory permit;
   C.   An applicant is under eighteen years of age;
   D.   The required application fee has not been paid.
(Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.080 Transfer of adult-oriented business regulatory permits.
   A.   A permittee shall not operate an adult-oriented business under the
authority of an adult-oriented business regulatory permit at any place other
than the address of the adult-oriented business stated in the application for
the permit.
   B.   A permittee shall not transfer ownership or control of an adult-
oriented business or transfer an adult-oriented business regulatory permit to
another person unless and until the transferee obtains an amendment to the
permit from the city's designee stating that the transferee is now the
permittee. Such an amendment may be obtained only if the transferee files an
application with the city's designee in accordance with Sections
5.10.040 and
5.10.050 of this chapter, accompanies the application with a transfer fee in an
amount set by resolution of the city council, and the city's designee
determines in accordance with Section
5.10.060 that the transferee would be entitled to the issuance of an original
permit. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.090 Adult-oriented business performer permit.
   A.   No person shall engage in or participate in any live performance with
an emphasis upon specified anatomical areas (see Section
5.10.020) or specified sexual activities (see Section
5.10.020) in an adult-oriented business, without a valid adult-oriented
business performer permit issued by the city. All persons who have been issued
an adult-oriented business regulatory permit shall promptly supplement the
information provided as part of the application for the permit required by
Section
5.10.040 of this chapter, with the names of all performers required to obtain
an adult-oriented business performer permit, within thirty days of any change
in the information originally submitted.
   B.   The city's designee shall grant, deny and renew adult-oriented business
performer permits.
   C.   The application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by the
city's designee. An original and two copies of the completed and sworn permit
application shall be filed with the city's designee.
   D.   The completed application shall contain the following information and
be accompanied by the following documents:
   1.   The applicants legal name and any other names (including stage names
and aliases) used by the applicant;
   2.   Age, date and place of birth;
   3    Height, weight, hair and eye color;
   4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
   5.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of:
   a.    Any of the offenses set forth in Sections 315, 316, 266a, 266b, 266c,
266e, 266g, 266h, 266i, 647(a), 647(b) and 647(d) of the California Penal Code
as those sections now exist or may hereafter be amended or renumbered,
   b.    The equivalent of the aforesaid offenses outside the state of
California.
   6.   Whether such person is or has ever been licensed or registered as a
prostitute, or otherwise authorized by the laws of any other jurisdiction to
engage in prostitution in such other jurisdiction. If any person mentioned in
this subsection has ever been licensed or registered as a prostitute, or
otherwise authorized by the laws of any other state to engage in prostitution,
a statement shall be submitted giving the place of such registration, licensing
or legal authorization, and the inclusive dates during which such person was so
licensed, registered or authorized to engage in prostitution;
   7.   State driver's license or identification number;
   8.   Satisfactory written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen
years of age;
   9.   If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a license, the
applicant shall attach a copy of the license to be renewed.
   E.   The completed application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
application fee. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the city
council. The amount of such fee may not exceed the cost of processing the
application.
   F.   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application fees, the
city's designee shall immediately stamp the application as received and
promptly investigate the application.
   G.   If the city's designee determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the city's designee shall promptly notify the applicant
of such fact. The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be stayed
during the period in which the application is incomplete. (Ord. 05-03 § 1
(part), 2005)
5.10.100 Notification of application.
   A.   Within two business days after receipt of the completed application,
the city's designee shall grant or deny the application and so notify the
applicant as follows:
   1.   The city's designee shall write or stamp "granted" or "denied" on the
application and date and sign such notation;
   2.   If the application is denied, the city's designee shall attach to the
application a statement of the reasons for denial;
   3.   If the application is granted, the city's designee shall attach to the
application an adult-oriented business performer permit;
   4.   The application as granted or denied and the permit, if any, shall be
placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to the
applicant at the residence address stated in the application.
   B.   The city's designee shall grant the application and issue the permit
unless the application is denied for one or more of the reasons set forth in
subsection D of this section.
   C.   If the city's designee grants the application or if the city's designee
neither grants nor denies the application within two business days after it is
stamped as received (except as provided in Section
5.10.090 G, the applicant may begin performing in the capacity for which the
license was sought.
   D.   The city's designee shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
   1.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of a material fact in the application for a permit;
   2.   The applicant is under eighteen years of age;
   3.   The adult-oriented business performer permit is to be used for
performing in a business prohibited by state or city law;
   4.   The applicant has been registered in any state as a prostitute;
   5.   The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses enumerated in
this title or convicted of an offense outside the state of California that
would have constituted any of the described offenses if committed within the
state of California. A permit may be issued to any person convicted of the
described crimes if the conviction occurred more than five years prior to the
date of the application.
   E.   Each adult-oriented business performer permit shall expire one year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed only by filing with the city's
designee a written request for renewal, accompanied by the application fee and
a copy of the permit to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at
least thirty days before the expiration date of the permit. Applications for
renewal shall be acted on as provided in this chapter for applications for
permits. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.110 Appeal of denial, suspension or revocation.
   A.   Administrative appeal to the city council.
   1.   After denial of an application or suspension or revocation of a permit,
the applicant or permittee may seek prompt review of such administrative action
through the city council, under the provisions of the Pismo Beach Municipal
Code and may appeal any decision of the city council to the superior court
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure 1094.8. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part),
2005)
Article III. Operating and Development Standards
5.10.120 Adult-oriented business development and operating standards.
   A.   Operating standards are a legitimate and reasonable means of ensuring
that adult businesses are conducted in a manner so as to minimize their adverse
secondary effects and to help assure that such operators and businesses comply
with reasonable regulations related to such requirements to minimize control
problems associated with such businesses and thereby protect the health, safety
and welfare of city residents, protect citizens from increased crime, preserve
the quality of life, preserve property values and the character of surrounding
neighborhoods and businesses, and deter the spread of urban blight. The
operational requirements contained in this chapter do not unreasonably restrict
the establishment or operation of constitutionally protected adult businesses
in the city.
   B.   The city council, in adopting operational standards, recognizes that
these standards do not preclude reasonable alternative avenues of
communication. For example, the closing hours requirement means that adult
businesses are free to operate seven days a week for sixteen hours per day. The
city council takes note of the proliferation of adult material on the Internet
and its availability as an alternative avenue of communication. The city
council also considers and relies on published decisions examining the
proliferation of communications on the Internet. (Reno v. American Civil
Liberties Union, 521 U.S. 844 [the principle channel through which many
Americans now transmit and receive sexually explicit communication is the
Internet]; Anheuser-Busch v. Schmoke, 101 F. 3d 325 [the Fourth Circuit
rejected a First Amendment challenge to a Baltimore chapter restricting alcohol
advertisements on billboards acknowledging that the Internet is one available
channel of communication]; U.S. v. Hockings, 129 F. 3d 1069; U.S. Thomas, 74 F.
3d 701 [recognizing the Internet as a medium for transmission of sexually
explicit material in the context of obscenity prosecutions].) The emergence of
the Internet brings with it a virtually unlimited additional source of adult
oriented sexual materials available to interested person(s) in every community
with a mere keystroke. An adult business no longer has to be actually
physically located in a city to be available in the community.
   C.   The city council has also determined that a closing hours requirement
promotes the reduction of deleterious secondary effects from adult facilities
and reasonably relies on prior court decisions on the need for closing hours
including Mitchell v. Comm. On Adult Entertainment, 10 F. 3d 123; Lady J.
Lingerie, Inc. v. City of Jacksonville, 973 F. Supp 1428; and City of Colorado
Springs v. 2345 mc, 896 P. 2d 272.
   D.   No adult-oriented business shall be operated in any manner that permits
the observation of any material or activities depicting, describing or relating
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas from any public
way or from any location outside the building or area of such establishment.
This provision shall apply to any display, decoration, sign, show window or
other opening. No exterior door or window on the premises shall be propped or
kept open at any time while the business is open, and any exterior windows
shall be covered with opaque covering at all times.
   E.   All off-street parking area and premise entries of the adult-oriented
business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation with a
lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal illumination of
one footcandle of light on the parking surface and/or walkways. The required
lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient illumination of
the parking areas and walkways serving the adult-oriented business for the
personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the incidence of
vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be shown on the required
sketch or diagram of the premises.
   F.   Except for those businesses also regulated by the California Department
of Alcoholic Beverage Control, an adult-oriented business shall be open for
business only between the hours of eight a.m. and two a.m. This restriction
shall not apply to an adult hotel or adult motel.
   G.   The building entrance to an adult-oriented business shall be clearly
and legibly posted with a notice indicating that persons under eighteen years
of age are precluded from entering the premises. No person under the age of
eighteen years shall be permitted within the premises at any time.
   H.   All indoor areas of the adult-oriented business within which patrons
are permitted, except restrooms, shall be open to view by the management at all
times.
   I.   Any adult-oriented business which is also an adult arcade shall comply
with the following provisions:
   1.   No adult booth/individual viewing area shall be occupied by more than
one individual at a time.
   2.   Each adult booth/viewing area within the adult business shall be
visible from a continuous and accessible main aisle in a public portion of the
establishment, and shall not be obscured by any door, curtain, wall, two-way
mirror or other device which would prohibit a person from seeing the entire
interior of the adult booth/individual viewing area from the main aisle. A
manager shall be stationed in the main aisle at all times. Further, no one
shall maintain any adult booth/individual viewing area in any configuration
unless the entire interior wherein the picture or entertainment that is viewed
is visible from one main aisle. The entire body of any patron in any adult
booth/individual viewing area must be visible from the main aisle without the
assistance of mirrors or other device.
   3.   No doors are permitted on an adult booth/individual viewing are. No
partially or fully enclosed adult booth/individual viewing areas or partially
or fully concealed adult booth/individually viewing areas shall be maintained.
   4.   The walls or partitions between viewing rooms or booths shall be
maintained in good repair at all times, with no holes between any two such
rooms such as would allow viewing from one booth into another or such as to
allow physical contact of any kind between the occupants of any two such booths
or rooms.
   5.   No holes or other openings (commonly known as glory holes) shall be
permitted between adult booths/individual viewing areas. Any such hole or
opening shall be repaired within twenty-four hours using pop rivets to secure
metal plates over the hole or opening to prevent patrons from removing the
metal plates.
   6.   The floors, seats, walls and other interior portions of all video
booths shall be maintained clean and free from waste and bodily secretions.
Presence of human excrement, urine, semen or saliva in any such booths shall be
evidence of improper maintenance and inadequate sanitary controls.
   7.   No beds shall be permitted in an adult booth/individual viewing area.
   J.   All areas of the adult-oriented business shall be illuminated at a
minimum of the following footcandles, minimally maintained and evenly
distributed at ground level:
 
 Area                     Footcandles   
Bookstores and other retail 20
establishments
                            5 (except during performances, at which
Theaters and cabarets       times lighting shall be at least 1.25
                            footcandles)
Arcades                     10
Motels/hotels               20 (in public areas)
Modeling studios            20
 
   K.   The adult-oriented business shall provide and maintain separate
restroom facilities for male patrons and employees, and female patrons and
employees. Male patrons and employees shall be prohibited from using the
restroom(s) for females, and female patrons and employees shall be prohibited
from using the restroom(s) for males, except to carry out duties of repair,
maintenance and cleaning of the restroom facilities. The restrooms shall be
free from any adult material. Restrooms shall not contain television monitors
or other motion picture or video projection, recording or reproduction
equipment. The foregoing provisions of this subsection shall not apply to an
adult-oriented business which deals exclusively with sale or rental of adult
material which is not used or consumed on the premises, such as an adult
bookstore or adult video store, and which does not provide restroom facilities
to its patrons or the general public.
   1.   On-Site Manager: Security Measures. All adult businesses shall have a
responsible person who shall be at least eighteen years of age and shall be on
the premises to act as a manager at all times during which the business is
open. No performer may serve as the manager. The individual(s) designated as
the on-site manager shall provide his/her name to the planning director to
receive all complaints and be given by the owner and/or operator the
responsibility and duty to address and resolve all violations taking place on
the premises. All adult businesses shall proved a security system that visually
records and monitors all parking lot areas, or in the alternative, state
licensed uniformed security guards to patrol and monitor the parking lot areas
during all times during which the business is open. If the business employs
security guards, they shall provide written confirmation to the police chief
prior to their employment that the guards are duly registered. No performer may
serve as a security guard. A sign indicating compliance with this provision
shall be posted on the exterior of the premises between four to six feet from
the ground. The sign shall not exceed two feet by three feet and shall at a
minimum be one foot by one and one-half feet and shall utilize red or black
printing letters of not less than one inch in size.
   M.   No exterior door or window on the premises of an adult business shall
be propped or kept open at anytime while the business is open and any exterior
windows shall be covered with opaque coverings at all times.
   N.   The following additional requirements shall pertain to adult-oriented
businesses providing live entertainment:
   1.   No person shall perform live entertainment for patrons of an adult-
oriented business except upon a stage at least eighteen inches above the level
of the floor which is separated by a distance of at least ten feet from the
nearest area occupied by patrons, and no patron shall be permitted within ten
feet of the stage while the stage is occupied by a performer. "Performer" means
any person who is an employee or independent contractor of the adult-oriented
business, or any person who, with or without any compensation or other form of
consideration, performs live entertainment for patrons of an adult-oriented
business;
   2.   The adult-oriented business shall provide separate dressing room
facilities for performers which are exclusively dedicated to the performers
use;
   3.   The adult-oriented business shall provide an entrance/exit for
performers which is separate from the entrance/exit used by patrons;
   4.   The adult-oriented business shall provide access for performers between
the stage and the dressing rooms which is completely separated from the
patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible, the adult-oriented
business shall provide a minimum three foot wide walk aisle for performers
between the dressing room area and the stage, with a railing, fence or other
barrier separating the patrons and the performers capable of (and which
actually results in) preventing any physical contact between patrons and
performers;
   5.   No performer, before, during or after performances, shall have physical
contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact with any
performer before, during or after performances by such performer. This
subsection shall only apply to physical contact on the premises of the adult-
oriented business. This limitation shall not be construed to apply to
incidental physical contact;
   6.   Fixed rail(s) at least thirty inches in height shall be maintained
establishing the separations between performers and patrons required by this
subsection;
   7.   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any performer and
no performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron;
   8.   No owner or other person with managerial control over an adult-oriented
business (as that term is defined herein) shall permit any person on the
premises of the adult-oriented business to engage in a live showing of the
human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully
opaque coverage, and/or the female breast with less than a fully opaque
coverage over any part of the nipple or areola and/or covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state. This provision may not be complied with by applying
an opaque covering simulating the appearance of the specified anatomical part
required to be covered. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.130 Register and permit number of employees.
   Every permittee of an adult-oriented business which provides live adult
entertainment must maintain a register of all persons so performing on the
premises and their permit numbers. Such register shall be available for
inspection during regular business hours by any police officer of the city of
Pismo Beach. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.140 Display of permit and identification cards.
   A.   Every adult-oriented business shall display at all times during
business hours the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for
such adult-oriented business in a conspicuous place so that the same may be
readily seen by all persons entering the adult-oriented business.
   B.   The police chief shall provide each adult-oriented business performer
required to have a permit pursuant to the chapter, with an identification card
containing the name, address, photograph and permit number of such performer.
   C.   An adult-oriented business performer shall have such card available for
inspection at all times during which such person is on the premises of the
adult-oriented business. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.150 Employment of and services rendered to persons under the age of
eighteen years prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in charge of
any adult-oriented business to employ or provide any service for which it
requires such permit, to any person who is not at least eighteen years of age.
   B.   It is unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in charge of
any adult-oriented business to knowingly permit to enter or remain within the
adult-oriented business, any person who is not at least eighteen years of age.
(Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
Article IV. Miscellaneous Provisions
5.10.160 Inspection.
   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the police
department, health department, fire department, planning division or other city
departments or agencies to inspect the premises of an adult-oriented business
for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied
or opened for business. A person who operates an adult-oriented business or his
or her agent or employee is in violation of the provisions of this section if
he/she refuses to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it
is occupied or open for business. (Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.170 Regulations nonexclusive.
   The provisions of this article regulating adult-oriented businesses are not
intended to be exclusive and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulations pertaining to the operation of
businesses as adopted by the city council of the city of Pismo Beach. (Ord. 05-
03 § 1 (part), 2005)
5.10.180 Employment of persons without permits unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any owner, operator, manager or permittee in charge of or
in control of an adult-oriented business which provides live adult
entertainment to allow any person to perform such entertainment who is not in
possession of a valid adult-oriented business performer permit. (Ord. 05-03 § 1
(part), 2005)
5.10.190 Time limit for filing application for permit.
   All persons who possess an outstanding business license heretofore issued
for the operation of an adult-oriented business and all persons required by
this chapter to obtain an adult-oriented business performer permit must apply
for and obtain such a permit within ninety days of the effective date of this
chapter. Failure to do so and continued operation of an adult-oriented business
or the continued performances in an adult-oriented business after such time
without a permit shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 05-03 § 1
(part), 2005)
5.10.200 Severability.
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase in this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid, or ineffective.
(Ord. 05-03 § 1 (part), 2005)
Chapter 5.11 PERSONAL SERVICES BUSINESSES
5.11.010 Purpose and intent.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, and
welfare as follows:
   A.   This chapter will regulate lawful personal services businesses pursuant
to Section 7 of Article XI of the Constitution of the State of California.
   B.   The permit requirements and operational restrictions imposed by this
chapter are reasonably necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the city of Pismo Beach. (Ord. O-2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
Article I. Massage Establishments
5.11.020 Purpose and intent—massage establishments.
   A.   In enacting this article regarding massage establishments, the city
council recognizes that commercial massage therapy is a professional pursuit
which can offer the public valuable health and therapeutic services. The city
council further recognizes that, unless properly regulated, the practice of
massage therapy and the operation of massage establishments may be associated
with unlawful activity and pose a threat to the quality of life in the local
community. Accordingly, it is the purpose and intent of this article to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare by providing for the orderly regulation
of businesses providing massage therapy and education services, discouraging
prostitution, human trafficking, and related illegal activities carried on
under the guise of massage therapy, and establishing certain sanitation,
health, and operational standards for massage establishments.
   B.   Furthermore, it is the council's purpose and intent to rely upon the
uniform statewide regulations applicable to massage practitioners and
establishments that were enacted by the State Legislature in 2008 as Business
and Professions Code Section 4600 et seq. by Senate Bill 731, amended in 2011
by Assembly Bill 619, amended in 2014 by Assembly Bill 1147, amended in 2016 by
Assembly Bill 2194 which also amended Government Code Section 51034, and
amended by Assembly Bill 1504, or substantially similar qualifications, and to
restrict the commercial practice of massage in the city to those persons duly
certified to practice by the California Massage Therapy Council or who have
substantially similar qualifications or are actively pursuing such
certification or substantially similar qualifications and are properly
supervised, and to provide for the registration and regulation of massage
establishments for health and safety purposes to the extent allowed by law.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.030 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, unless the particular provision or the
context otherwise clearly requires, the definitions in this section shall
govern the construction, meaning, and application of words and phrases used in
this article:
   A.   "Business" includes, but not by way of limitation, everything about
which a person can be employed, and means that which occupies the time,
attention, and labor of persons for the purpose of producing a livelihood or
profit, and connotes the efforts of persons by varied and diverse methods of
dealing with each other, to improve their individual economic conditions, and
for the purposes of this article shall include, without limitation, the
advertising and soliciting of massages. The term "business" includes, but is
not limited to, a massage practitioner who is the sole owner, operator, and
employee of a massage establishment operating as a sole proprietorship, as well
as a massage establishment which employs massage practitioners and therapists.
   B.   "California Massage Therapy Council" or "CAMTC" means the massage
therapy organization formed pursuant to Business and Professions Code Section
4600.5.
   C.   "Certified massage practitioner" means any individual certified by the
California Massage Therapy Council as a certified massage therapist or as a
certified massage practitioner pursuant to California Business and Professions
Code Section 4600 et seq.
   D.   "Client" means the customer or patron who pays for or receives massage
services.
   E.   "Compensation" means the payment, loan, advance, donation,
contribution, deposit, exchange, or gift of money or anything of value.
   F.   "Employee" means any person employed by a massage establishment who may
render any service to the business, and who receives any form of compensation
from the business.
   G.   "Established massage practitioner" means any person who is over
eighteen years of age and who holds an established massage practitioner permit
issued pursuant to Section 5.11.050 of this code and who is not a certified
massage practitioner.
   H.   "Health officer" means the person appointed by the County of San Luis
Obispo Health Department pursuant to the California Health and Safety Code or
their authorized representatives or designees.
   I.   "Massage" or "massage therapy" means and refers to any method of
treating the external parts of the body for remedial, health, or hygienic
purposes for any form of compensation by means of pressure on or friction
against, or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, or stimulating the
external parts of the body, with or without the aid of any mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliances.
   J.   "Massage establishment" means any establishment that offers massage
therapy in exchange for compensation, including both fixed places of business
and outcall services. This includes massage clinics, massage parlors, spas
offering massage services, and massage schools providing services to the public
for compensation, whether as part of their educational program or otherwise.
   K.   "Massage establishment permit" means the certification issued by the
police chief, or their authorized representative(s) or designee(s), and
required by this article in order to operate a massage establishment in Pismo
Beach.
   L.   “Massage instruction” means instruction in massage therapy techniques,
theory, or practice for compensation, whether or not such instruction includes
hands-on training or supervision.
   M.   "Massage practitioner" means a certified massage practitioner, an
established massage practitioner, or a probationary massage practitioner.
   N.   "Operator" or "massage establishment operator'' means any and all
owners of a massage establishment and/or massage school.
   O.   "Outcall massage" means the engaging in or carrying on of massage
therapy for compensation in a location other than the business operations
address set forth on the massage establishment permit.
   P.   "Owner" means any of the following persons:
   1.   Any person who is a general partner of a general or limited partnership
that owns a massage establishment.
   2.   Any person who has a five percent (5%) or greater ownership interest in
a corporation that owns a massage establishment.
   3.   Any person who is a member of a limited liability company that owns a
massage establishment.
   4.   Any person who has a five percent (5%) or greater ownership interest in
any other type of business association that owns a massage establishment.
   Q.   "Person" means any individual, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, joint venture, limited liability company, or combination of
individuals.
   R.   "Police chief' means the police chief of the city of Pismo Beach and
their authorized representative(s) or designee(s).
   S.   "Probationary massage practitioner" means any person who is over
eighteen years of age and who holds a probationary massage practitioner permit
issued pursuant to Section 5.11.060 and who is not a certified massage
practitioner. Probationary massage practitioners may be either employees or
students.
   T.   "Reception and waiting area" means an area immediately inside the front
door of the massage establishment dedicated to the reception and waiting of
patrons of the massage establishment and visitors, and which is not a massage
therapy room or otherwise used for the provision of massage therapy services.
   U.   "School of massage" or “massage school” means any school or institution
of learning that is recognized as an approved school pursuant to Business and
Professions Code Section 4600 et seq., as currently drafted or as may be
amended and is recognized and in good standing with the California Massage
Therapy Council.
   V.   "Sole proprietorship" means and includes any legal form of business
organization where the business owner (sometimes referred to as the "sole
proprietor") is the only person employed by that business to provide massage
services.
   W.   "Solicit" means to request, ask, demand, or otherwise arrange for the
provision of services.
   X.   “Student” means any individual receiving instruction in massage therapy
who is not an employee of a massage establishment.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.040 CAMTC certification and city permit required.
   A.   Individuals. At any time later than six (6) months after the effective
date of this article, it shall be unlawful for any individual to practice
massage therapy within the city of Pismo Beach unless that individual is (i) a
certified massage practitioner by the California Massage Therapy Council, (ii)
an established massage practitioner or (iii) a probationary massage
practitioner. Certified massage practitioners and established massage
practitioners who are providing massage therapy or instruction services as an
independent contractor must obtain a valid city of Pismo Beach business
license. Probationary massage practitioners must practice massage and/or
massage therapy under the supervision of a certified massage practitioner or an
established massage practitioner at a business with a valid massage
establishment permit.
   B.   Businesses. At any time later than six (6) months after the effective
date of this article, it shall be unlawful for any business to provide massage
therapy within the city of Pismo Beach unless all individuals employed by the
massage establishment to perform massage, whether as an employee, independent
contractor, or sole proprietorship, are certified massage practitioners,
established massage practitioners, or probationary massage practitioners
(provided such probationary massage practitioners are provided adequate
supervision) and said business has obtained a valid massage establishment
permit issued by the police chief as provided in this article and a valid city
of Pismo Beach business license.
   C.   Massage Schools. At any time later than six (6) months after the
effective date of this article, it shall be unlawful for any person or business
to operate a massage school within the city of Pismo Beach without a valid
massage establishment permit. No person shall provide massage instruction
except through a licensed school of massage that holds a valid massage
establishment permit issued under this article.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.050 Established massage practitioner permit.
   A.   Application. The application for an established massage practitioner
permit shall include all of the following:
   1.   Legal name of the applicant seeking to practice massage.
   2.   Address and telephone number of the applicant.
   3.   Name, address, and telephone number of the massage establishment the
applicant owns or at which the applicant is employed or independently
contracted.
   4.   An application for a background check, including the following: Live
scan fingerprints; all arrest, felony or misdemeanor convictions, pleas of
guilty, pleas of nolo contendere, or expungements; the individual's business,
occupation, and employment history for the five (5) years preceding the date of
the application; the inclusive dates of such employment history; the name and
address of any massage establishment, massage school, or similar business owned
or operated by the individual whether inside or outside the city of Pismo
Beach.
   5.   A diploma, certificate, or similar documentation from a licensed
massage or massage therapy school demonstrating successful completion of
curricula in massage and related subjects that incorporates appropriate school
assessment of student knowledge and skill.
   6.   Documentation demonstrating sufficient level of training and/or
experience as follows:
   a.   Completion of a minimum of five hundred (500) hours of massage therapy
instruction, at least one hundred (100) hours of which addressed anatomy,
physiology, contraindications, health and hygiene, and business ethics, and
passage of a massage and bodywork competency assessment examination that meets
generally recognized psychometric principles.
   b.   In lieu of or in addition to training and experience required under
Section
5.11.050(A)(6)(a) of this code, the applicant may instead provide documentation
that the applicant has been practicing massage therapy in good standing since
before 2016, as evidenced by a valid business license, massage therapy license,
or similar license, permit, or approval that has not been suspended or revoked
at any point during the relevant time period.
   7.   A valid and current driver's license and/or identification issued by a
state or federal governmental agency or other photographic identification
bearing a bona fide seal by a foreign government.
   8.   A signed statement that all of the information contained in the
application is true and correct; and acknowledging that failure to comply with
any applicable local, state, or federal law, or the provisions of this article
may result in revocation of the established massage practitioner permit.
   B.   Issuance. Upon provision by the applicant of the foregoing
documentation, the police chief may issue the applicant an established massage
practitioner permit, which shall be valid for two (2) years from the date of
issuance. No reapplication will be accepted within one (1) year after an
application or renewal is denied or a permit is revoked. Established massage
practitioner permits may not be issued if the applicant:
   1.   Is currently serving a suspension or revocation pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code;
   2.   Has received a notice of suspension, revocation, or fine issued
pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code, or there is a currently pending appeal of such a
suspension, revocation, or fine;
   3.   Has outstanding fines issued pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code that have not been paid;
   4.   Is a certified massage practitioner or a probationary massage
practitioner.
   C.   Amendment. An established massage practitioner shall notify the police
chief within thirty (30) days after any change in the established massage
practitioner permit information, including, but not limited to any changes in
address and/or telephone number, place of employment, or qualifications.
   D.   Renewal. An established massage practitioner shall apply to the police
chief to renew its established massage practitioner permit at least thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration of said permit. If an application for renewal of
an established massage practitioner permit and all required information are not
timely received and the permit expires, no right or privilege to provide
massage therapy or instruction shall exist.
   E.   Fees. A nonrefundable fee as set by resolution of the city council
shall accompany the submission of each established massage practitioner permit
application and renewal application to defray the costs of the application
review and permit preparation. There shall be no fee for any amendment of an
established massage practitioner permit. The provisions of this section shall
not prevent the city from establishing fees for safety inspections as may be
conducted from time to time and for the background checks, fingerprinting, and
subsequent arrest notification for established massage practitioners.
   F.   Transfer. An established massage practitioner permit is not
transferable.
   G.   Denial. In the event of a denial for an established massage
practitioner permit, notification of the denial and reasons therefor shall be
provided in writing and shall be provided to the applicant by personal delivery
or by registered or certified mail.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.060 Probationary massage practitioner permit.
   A.   Application. The application for a probationary massage practitioner
permit shall include all of the following:
   1.   Legal name of the applicant seeking to practice massage.
   2.   Address and telephone number of the applicant.
   3.   Name, address, and telephone number of the massage establishment at
which the applicant is or will be studying, employed, or independently
contracted.
   4.   Name and address of a certified massage practitioner or an established
massage practitioner sponsoring the applicant who works at the same massage
establishment as the applicant.
   5.   An application for a background check, including the following: Live
scan fingerprints; all arrest, felony, or misdemeanor convictions, pleas of
guilty, pleas of nolo contendere, or expungements; the individual's business,
occupation, and employment history for the five years preceding the date of the
application; the inclusive dates of such employment history; the name and
address of any massage establishment or similar business owned or operated by
the individual whether inside or outside the city of Pismo Beach.
   6.   Proof of current enrollment in school of massage (i.e. a CAMTC-approved
school or a licensed massage or massage therapy school).
   7.   Documentation of successful completion of a minimum of one hundred
(100) hours of curricula in massage and related subjects.
   8.   A valid and current driver's license and/or identification issued by a
state or federal governmental agency or other photographic identification
bearing a bona fide seal by a foreign government.
   9.   A signed statement that all of the information contained in the
application is true and correct; certifying that the applicant is actively
pursuing certification with the CAMTC, and acknowledging that failure to comply
with the California Business and Professions Code Section 4600 et seq., any
other applicable local, state, or federal law, or the provisions of this
article may result in revocation of the probationary massage practitioner
permit.
   B.   Issuance. Upon provision by the applicant of the foregoing
documentation, the police chief may issue the applicant a probationary massage
practitioner permit, which shall be valid for one (1) year from the date of
issuance. No reapplication will be accepted within one (1) year after an
application or renewal is denied or a permit is revoked. Probationary massage
practitioner permits may not be issued if the applicant:
   1.   Is currently serving a suspension or revocation pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code;
   2.   Has received a notice of suspension, revocation or fine issued pursuant
to Section
5.11.132 of this code, or there is a currently pending appeal of such a
suspension, revocation, or fine;
   3.   Has outstanding fines issued pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code that have not been paid;
   4.   Is a certified massage practitioner or an established massage
practitioner.
   C.   Amendment. A probationary massage practitioner shall notify the police
chief within thirty (30) days after any change in the probationary massage
practitioner permit information, including, but not limited to any changes in
address and/or telephone number, place of employment or study, qualifications,
or successful certification by the CAMTC, or successful completion of curricula
at a licensed massage or massage therapy school and sufficient level of
training and/or experience such that the probationary massage practitioner is
eligible for an established massage practitioner permit.
   D.   Renewal. A probationary massage practitioner shall apply to the police
chief to renew its probationary massage practitioner permit at least thirty
(30) days prior to the expiration of said permit. If an application for renewal
of a probationary massage practitioner permit and all required information are
not timely received and the permit expires, no right or privilege to provide
massage shall exist.
   E.   Fees. A nonrefundable fee as set by resolution of the city council
shall accompany the submission of each probationary massage practitioner permit
application and renewal application to defray the costs of the application
review and permit preparation. There shall be no fee for any amendment of a
probationary massage practitioner permit. The provisions of this section shall
not prevent the city from establishing fees for safety inspections as may be
conducted from time to time and for the background checks, fingerprinting, and
subsequent arrest notification for probationary massage practitioners.
   F.   Transfer. A probationary massage practitioner permit is not
transferable.
   G.   Denial. In the event of a denial for a probationary massage
practitioner permit, notification of the denial and reasons therefor shall be
provided in writing and shall be provided to the applicant by personal delivery
or by registered or certified mail.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021)
5.11.070 Massage establishment permit.
   A.   Application. The application for a massage establishment permit shall
include all of the following:
   1.   Legal name of the massage establishment.
   2.   Address and telephone number of the proposed massage establishment
location.
   3.   Legal names of all owners of the massage establishment.
   4.   A list of all of the massage establishment's employees, students, and
independent contractors who will be performing massage therapy and, for each
employee, student, or independent contractor, either (i) a current copy of the
CAMTC certification, (ii) the documentation required under Section
5.11.050 of this code for established massage practitioners or an established
massage practitioner permit, or (iii) the documentation required under Section
5.11.060 of this code for probationary massage practitioners or a probationary
massage practitioner permit.
   5.   Residential address and telephone number of all owners of the massage
establishment.
   6.   Business address and telephone number of all owners of the massage
establishment.
   7.   The form of business under which the massage establishment will be
operating (i.e., corporation, general or limited partnership, limited liability
company, or other form).
   8.   Each owner or operator of the massage establishment who is not a
certified massage practitioner, established massage practitioner, or
probationary massage practitioner shall submit an application for a background
check, including the following: Live scan fingerprints; all arrest, felony, or
misdemeanor convictions, pleas of guilty, pleas of nolo contendere or
expungements; the individual's business, occupation, and employment history for
the five (5) years preceding the date of the application; the inclusive dates
of such employment history; the name and address of any massage establishment,
massage school, or similar business owned or operated by the individual whether
inside or outside the city of Pismo Beach.
   9.   For all owners, a valid and current driver's license and/or
identification issued by a state or federal governmental agency or other
photographic identification bearing a bona fide seal by a foreign government.
   10.   For all owners, a signed statement that all of the information
contained in the application is true and correct; that all owners shall be
responsible for the conduct of the business's employees, students, or
independent contractors providing massage services; and acknowledging that
failure to comply with the California Business and Professions Code Section
4600 et seq., any local, state, or federal law, or the provisions of this
article may result in revocation of the business's massage establishment
permit.
   B.   Issuance. Upon provision by the massage establishment of the foregoing
documentation, the police chief may issue the massage establishment a massage
establishment permit, which shall be valid for two (2) years from the date of
issuance. No reapplication will be accepted within one (1) year after an
application or renewal is denied or a permit is revoked. Massage establishment
permits may not be issued to a massage establishment seeking to operate at a
particular location if:
   1.   Another massage establishment is or was operating at that particular
location and that massage establishment is currently serving a suspension or
revocation pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code, during the pendency of the suspension or one (1) year
following revocation;
   2.   Another massage establishment is or was operating at that particular
location and that massage establishment has received a notice of suspension,
revocation, or fine issued pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code, during the ten (10) day period following receipt of the
notice or while any appeal of a suspension, revocation, or fine is pending;
   3.   Another massage establishment is or was operating at that particular
location and that massage establishment has outstanding fines issued pursuant
to Section
5.11.132 of this code that have not been paid.
   C.   Amendment. A massage establishment shall notify the police chief within
thirty (30) days after any change in the massage establishment permit
information, including, but not limited to, the hiring or termination of
certified massage practitioners, established massage practitioners, or
probationary massage practitioners, or any changes in the owner(s)' addresses
and/or telephone numbers.
   D.   Renewal. A massage establishment shall apply to the police chief to
renew its massage establishment permit at least thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of said permit. If an application for renewal of a massage
establishment permit and all required information are not timely received and
the certificate expires, no right or privilege to provide massage therapy or
instruction shall exist.
   E.   Fees. A nonrefundable fee as set by resolution of the city council
shall accompany the submission of each massage establishment permit application
and renewal application to defray the costs of the application review and
permit preparation. There shall be no fee for any amendment of a massage
establishment permit unless there is a change of address for the business
location, at which time a new massage establishment permit application will be
required along with a new facility inspection by both the police and fire
departments. The provisions of this section shall not prevent the city from
establishing fees for safety inspections as may be conducted from time to time
and for the background checks, fingerprinting, and subsequent arrest
notification for owners of a massage establishment who are subject to such
background checks pursuant to this article.
   F.   Transfer. A massage establishment permit is not transferable to a new
owner or ownership group. A new application for a massage establishment permit
shall be submitted to the city by the new owner(s). A massage establishment
permit may not be transferred to a new owner during any period of suspension or
one (1) year following revocation pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code, during the ten (10) day period following a massage
establishment's receipt of a notice of suspension, revocation, or fine issued
pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code or while any appeal of a suspension, revocation, or fine
is pending. Further, a massage establishment permit application shall not be
approved until all outstanding fines issued pursuant to Section
5.11.132 of this code have been paid.
   G.   Denial. In the event of a denial for a massage establishment permit,
notification of the denial and reasons therefor shall be provided in writing
and shall be provided to the applicant by personal delivery or by registered or
certified mail.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021)
5.11.080 Operating requirements.
   At any time later than six (6) months after the effective date of this
article, no person shall engage in, conduct, carry on, or permit any massage
therapy and/or instruction within the city of Pismo Beach unless all of the
following requirements are met:
   A.   All massage practitioners must register, in person, with the Pismo
Beach Police Department and certified massage practitioners must present a
valid CAMTC certificate. Application for and issuance of an established massage
practitioner permit or a probationary massage practitioner permit shall satisfy
this in-person registration requirement.
   B.   Massage therapy and/or instruction shall be provided or given only
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. No massage establishment shall be
open and no massage therapy and/or instruction shall be provided between 9:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. A massage therapy or instruction session commenced prior to
9:00 p.m. shall nevertheless terminate at 9:00 p.m., and, in the case of a
massage establishment, all clients shall exit the premises at that time. It is
the obligation of the massage establishment to inform clients of the
requirement that services must cease at 9:00 p.m.
   C.   A copy of the CAMTC certificate of each and every certified massage
practitioner employed in the massage establishment shall be displayed in the
reception area or similar open public place on the premises. A copy of the
established massage practitioner permit or probationary massage practitioner
permit of each and every established and probationary massage practitioner
shall be present on site and available for immediate inspection during business
hours. CAMTC certificates, established massage practitioner permits, or
probationary practitioner permits of former employees and/or contractors shall
be removed as soon as those massage practitioners are no longer employed by or
offering services through the massage establishment.
   D.   For each massage therapy service provided, including massage therapy
sessions provided for purposes of instruction, every massage establishment
shall keep a complete and legible written record of the following information:
The date and hour that service was provided; the service received; the name or
initials of the employee entering the information; and the name of the massage
practitioner administering the service. Such records shall be open to
inspection and copying by police officers, or other city officials charged with
enforcement of this article. These records may not be used by any massage
practitioner or operator for any purpose other than as records of service
provided and may not be provided to other parties by the massage practitioner
or operator unless otherwise required by law. Such records shall be retained on
the premises of the massage establishment for a period of two years and be
immediately available for inspection during business hours.
   E.   Massage establishments shall at all times be equipped with an adequate
supply of clean sanitary towels, coverings, and linens. Clean towels,
coverings, and linens shall be stored in enclosed cabinets. Towels and linens
shall not be used on more than one (1) client, unless they have first been
laundered and disinfected. Disposable towels and coverings shall not be used on
more than one (1) client. Soiled linens and paper towels shall be deposited in
separate, approved receptacles.
   F.   Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms or cabinets, toilet rooms,
shower and bathrooms, tanning booths, whirlpool baths, and pools shall be
thoroughly cleaned and disinfected as needed, and at least once each day the
premises are open, with a disinfectant approved by the health officer. Bathtubs
shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use with a disinfectant approved by the
health officer. All walls, ceilings, floors, and other physical facilities for
the business must be in good repair and maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   G.   Instruments utilized in performing massage therapy and/or instruction
shall not be used on more than one (1) client unless they have been sterilized,
using approved sterilization methods under the California Safe Body Art Act,
Health & Safety Code Section 119300 et seq.
   H.   All massage establishment operators and their employees and/or
students, including massage practitioners, shall wear clean, non-transparent
outer garments. Said garments shall not expose their genitals, pubic areas,
buttocks, or chest, and shall not be worn in such manner as to expose the
genitals, pubic areas, buttocks, or chest. For the purposes of this section,
outer garments means a garment worn over other garments and does not include
garments like underwear, bras, lingerie, or swimsuits.
   I.   No tobacco products or cannabis products shall be stored, sold, served,
consumed, or furnished on the premises of any massage establishment. No person
shall enter, be, or remain in any part of a massage establishment while
consuming or using any tobacco or cannabis product. The owner, operator,
responsible managing employee, or manager shall not permit any such person to
enter or remain upon such premises.
   J.   No massage establishment shall place, publish or distribute, or cause
to be placed, published, or distributed any advertising matter that depicts any
portion of the human body that would reasonably suggest to prospective clients
that any service is available other than those services as described in
compliance with the provisions of this article.
   K.   No massage therapy or instruction shall be given unless the client's
genitals are, at all times, fully covered. A massage practitioner shall not, in
the course of administering any massage, make physical contact with the
genitals of any other person regardless whether the contact is over or under
the person's clothing.
   L.   Where the establishment has staff available to assure security for
clients and massage staff are behind closed doors, the entry to the reception
area of the massage establishment shall remain unlocked during business hours
when the establishment is open for business or when clients are present.
   M.   No massage establishment located in a building or structure with
exterior windows fronting a public street, highway, walkway, or parking area
shall, during business hours, block visibility into the interior reception and
waiting area through the use of curtains, closed blinds, tints, or any other
material that obstructs, blurs, or unreasonably darkens the view into the
premises. For the purpose of this subsection, there is a presumption that the
visibility is impermissibly blocked if more than ten percent (10%) of the
interior reception and waiting area is not visible from the exterior window.
   N.   All signs shall be in conformance with the current ordinances of the
city of Pismo Beach or as otherwise outlined in any applicable planning
entitlement(s) or building permit(s) for the massage establishment.
   O.   Minimum lighting consisting of at least one (1) artificial light of not
less than forty (40) watts shall be provided and in operation in each room or
enclosure where massage therapy and/or instruction services are being
performed, and in all areas where clients are present.
   P.   Ventilation shall be provided in accordance with applicable building
codes and regulations.
   Q.   Hot and cold running water shall be provided at all times.
   R.   Adequate dressing, locker, and toilet facilities shall be provided for
clients.
   S.   A minimum of one (1) wash basin with hot and cold running water for
employees shall be provided at all times. The basin shall be located within or
as close as practicable to the area devoted to performing of massage services.
Sanitary towels shall also be provided at each basin.
   T.   Pads used on massage tables shall be covered with durable, washable
plastic or other waterproof material. One-time use disposable pads are
permitted as long as they are only used for one (1) client and then disposed
of.
   U.   All massage establishments shall comply with all state and federal laws
and regulations for disabled clients.
   V.   A massage practitioner shall operate only under the name specified in
their CAMTC certificate, established massage practitioner permit, or
probationary massage practitioner permit. A massage establishment shall operate
only under the name specified in its massage establishment permit and city
business license.
   W.   No massage establishment permit shall be issued for the operation of a
massage establishment in a residence and no person shall be allowed to reside
within the massage establishment or in attached structures owned, leased, or
controlled by the massage establishment.
   X.   No massage establishment shall be open for business or provide massage
therapy or instruction services between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
No patron shall be permitted to enter or remain on the premises outside of the
permitted operating hours.
   Y.   No new primary massage establishment shall be established or operated
within five hundred (500) feet from any like establishment. Five hundred feet
shall be the minimum linear distance between the closest points along the
boundaries of the parcel upon which the existing personal services business is
located and the parcel upon which the additional personal services business is
proposed, respectively, as determined by the community development director or
designee. "Primary" for purposes of this subsection means occupying more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the establishment.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a school of massage may operate as a stand-alone
facility or as part of a massage establishment and shall not be subject to the
distance requirement set forth in this section.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.090 Outcall massage.
   Outcall massage may only be performed under the following criteria:
   A.   Residences: Massage may be given at private residences owned or rented
by the client. The massage practitioner must be either an employee, independent
contractor, or sole proprietor of a currently permitted massage establishment
in the city of Pismo Beach. Non-employee students receiving instruction in
massage therapy shall not perform outcall massage services.
   B.   Special Events: At a city of Pismo Beach-approved special event by a
certified massage practitioner who is either an employee, student, independent
contractor, or sole proprietor of a currently permitted massage establishment
in Pismo Beach or an individual operating only at the special event and who is
in possession of and has on display a valid city of Pismo Beach business
license.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.100 Inspection by officials.
   The investigating and enforcing officials of the city of Pismo Beach and the
county of San Luis Obispo, including but not limited to law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire officials, health officer, and the community development
director, or their respective authorized representative(s) or designee(s),
shall have the right to enter the massage establishment premises from time to
time during regular business hours for the purpose of making reasonable
inspections to observe and enforce compliance with building, fire, electrical,
plumbing, or health regulations, and to enforce compliance with applicable
regulations, laws, and statutes, and with the provisions of this article. The
Pismo Beach police department, community development department, and fire
department may charge a nonrefundable fee for any safety inspections. Such fee
shall be established by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021-006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.110 Notifications.
   A.   A massage establishment shall notify the police chief of any changes
described in Section
5.11.070 of this code pursuant to the timelines specified therein.
   B.   A registrant shall report to the police chief any of the following
within ninety-six (96) hours of the occurrence:
   1.   Arrests of any employees or owners of the registrant's massage
establishment for an offense other than a misdemeanor traffic offense;
   2.   Resignations, terminations, or transfers of massage practitioners
employed by, or studying at, the registrant's massage establishment;
   3.   Any event involving the registrant's massage establishment or the
massage practitioners employed or studying therein that constitutes a violation
of this article or state or federal law.
   C.   This section requires reporting to the police chief even if the massage
establishment believes that the police chief has or will receive the
information from another source.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.120 Exemptions.
   A.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following classes
of individuals or businesses while engaged in the performance of their duties
and providing massage therapy or instruction under their scope of practice:
   1.   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, nurses, or any
physical therapists who are duly licensed to practice their respective
professions in the State of California and persons working directly under the
supervision of or at the direction of such licensed persons, working at the
same location as the licensed person, and administering massage services
subject to review or oversight by the licensed person.
   2.   Acupuncturists who are duly licensed under the laws of the State of
California while engaging in the practice of acupuncture pursuant to California
law.
   3.   Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under the laws of the
State of California while engaging in practices within the scope of their
licenses, except that this provision shall apply solely to the massaging of the
neck, face and/or scalp, hands, or feet of the clients.
   4.   Hospitals, nursing homes, mental health facilities, or any other health
facilities duly licensed by the State of California, and employees of these
licensed institutions, while acting within the scope of their employment.
   5.   Accredited high schools, junior colleges, colleges, or universities
whose coaches and trainers are acting within the scope of their employment.
   6.   Trainers of amateur, semi-professional, or professional athletes or
athletic teams while engaging in their training responsibilities for and with
athletes; and trainers working in conjunction with a specific athletic event.
   7.   Individuals administering massages or health treatment involving
massage to persons participating in single-occurrence athletic or recreational
event, such as road races, track meets, triathlons, and other similar events,
provided that all of the following conditions are satisfied:
   a.   The massage services are made equally available to all participants in
the event;
   b.   The event is open to participation by the general public or a
significant segment of the public such as employees of sponsoring or
participating corporations;
   c.   The massage services are provided at the site of the event and either
during, immediately preceding, or immediately following the event;
   d.   The sponsors of the event have been advised of and have approved the
provisions of massage services;
   e.   The persons providing the massage services are not the primary sponsors
of the event.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.130 Unlawful business practices may be enjoined; remedies cumulative.
   Any massage establishment operated, conducted, or maintained contrary to the
provisions of this article shall constitute an unlawful business practice
pursuant to California Business & Professions Code Section 17200 et seq., and
the city attorney may, in the exercise of discretion, in addition to or in lieu
of taking any other action permitted by this article, commence an action or
actions, proceeding or proceedings in the Superior Court of San Luis Obispo
County, seeking an injunction prohibiting the unlawful business practice and/or
any other remedy available at law, including but not limited to abatement,
removal of enjoinment thereof, fines, attorneys' fees, and costs. All remedies
provided for in this article are cumulative.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.132 Suspension and revocation of permits.
   A.   Reasons.
   1.   Massage establishment permits may be suspended or revoked by the police
chief upon finding any of the following grounds:
   a.   A massage practitioner employed or contracted by, or studying at, the
massage establishment and providing massage services is no longer in possession
of current and valid CAMTC certification, established massage practitioner
permit, or probationary massage practitioner permit. This subsection shall
apply to a sole proprietor or a person employed or used by a massage
establishment to provide massage therapy and/or instruction.
   b.   An owner or sole proprietor:
   i.   Is required to register under the provisions of California Penal Code
Section 290;
   ii.   Is arrested or convicted of a violation of any of the following
sections of the California Penal Code: 266i, 315, 316, 318, 647(b), 653.22,
653.23;
   iii.   Has a business permit or license denied, revoked, restricted, or
suspended by any agency, board, city, county, territory, or state;
   iv.   Is subject to an injunction for nuisance pursuant to California Penal
Code sections 11225–11235;
   v.   Is convicted of a felony offense involving a controlled substance;
   vi.   Is convicted of any crime involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit,
violence, or moral turpitude; or
   vii.   Is convicted in any other state of an offense which, if committed in
this state, would have been punishable as one or more referenced offenses in
this subsection.
   c.   The city determines that a material misrepresentation was included on
the application for a massage establishment permit or a Pismo Beach business
license or renewal of either.
   d.   Violations of any of the following occurred on the premises of a
massage establishment or were committed by a massage practitioner: California
Business and Professions Code Section 4600 et seq.; any local, state, or
federal law; or the provisions of this article.
   2.   Established massage practitioner permits or probationary massage
practitioner permits may be suspended or revoked by the police chief upon
finding the massage practitioner:
   a.   Is required to register under the provisions of California Penal Code
Section 290;
   b.   Is arrested or convicted of a violation of any of the following
sections of the California Penal Code: 266i, 315, 316, 318, 647(b), 653.22,
653.23;
   c.   Has a business permit or license denied, revoked, restricted, or
suspended by any agency, board, city, county, territory, or state;
   d.   Is subject to an injunction for nuisance pursuant to California Penal
Code sections 11225–11235;
   e.   Is convicted of a felony offense involving a controlled substance;
   f.   Is convicted of any crime involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit,
violence, or moral turpitude;
   g.   Is convicted in any other state of an offense which, if committed in
this state, would have been punishable as one or more referenced offenses in
this subsection;
   h.   Materially misrepresented information on the application for an
established massage practitioner permit or a probationary massage practitioner
permit or renewal of either; or
   i.   Committed violations of any of the following: California Business and
Professions Code Section 4600 et seq.; any local, state, or federal law; or the
provisions of this article.
   B.   Procedures. Written notice of the suspension or revocation with the
legal violation and supporting facts shall be served on the sole proprietor or
owners or established massage practitioner or probationary massage
practitioner, as applicable, by certified mail. The notice shall contain an
advisement of the right to request an appeal hearing pursuant to
Chapter 1.24 of this Code.
   C.   Time period of suspension of permit. The police chief may suspend a
permit for a period of time between five (5) days and the end of the permit
term, at the police chief’s discretion.
   D.   Effective date of suspension or revocation. A suspension or revocation
will become effective if no timely appeal is filed. In the event the police
chief has denied the issuance or renewal of a permit, or has revoked an
existing permit, the applicant or owner may elect to file an appeal of that
decision to the hearing administrator. Such appeal must be made, and hearing
proceedings shall be conducted to the greatest extent possible, in accordance
with the provisions of
Chapter 1.24 of this Code.
   E.   Reapplication. No reapplication for a massage establishment permit,
established massage practitioner permit, or probationary massage practitioner
permit will be accepted within one (1) year after such permit is suspended or
revoked.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021- 006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.134 Public nuisance.
   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for a massage establishment to be
operated, conducted, or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article.
The city may exercise its discretion, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting
a criminal action, to commence proceedings for the abatement, removal, and
enjoinment of that business in any manner provided by law.
(Ord. O-2025-006 § 2 (part), 2025: Ord. O-2021-006 § 2 (part), 2021: Ord. O-
2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
Article II. Tattoo Establishments
5.11.140 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, unless the particular provision or the
context otherwise clearly requires, the definitions in this section shall
govern the construction, meaning, and application of words and phrases used in
this article:
   A.   "Body piercing" means the creation of an opening in the human body for
the purpose of inserting jewelry or decorative objects. This includes but is
not limited to piercing of an ear, lip, tongue, nose, belly button, cheek,
forehead, or eyebrow. Body piercing does not, for the purpose of this article,
include piercing the leading edge or earlobe of the ear with a sterile,
disposable, single-use stud or solid needle that is applied using a mechanical
device to force the needle or stud through the ear.
   B.   "Business" includes, but not by way of limitation, everything about
which a person can be employed, and means that which occupies the time,
attention, and labor of persons for the purpose of producing a livelihood or
profit, and connotes the efforts of persons by varied and diverse methods of
dealing with each other, to improve their individual economic conditions, and
for the purposes of this article shall include, without limitation, the
advertising and soliciting of tattooing or body piercing services. The term
"business" includes, but is not limited to, a tattoo artist who is the sole
owner, operator and employee of a tattoo establishment operating as a sole
proprietorship, as well as a tattoo establishment which employs other tattoo
artists.
   C.   "Compensation" means the payment, loan, advance, donation,
contribution, deposit, exchange, or gift of money or anything of value.
   D.   "Employee" means any person employed by a tattoo establishment who may
render any service to the business, and who receives any form of compensation
from the business.
   E.   "Health officer" means the person appointed by the county of San Luis
Obispo Health Department pursuant to the California Health and Safety Code or
their authorized representatives or designees.
   F.   "Operator" or "tattoo establishment operator" means any and all owners
of a tattoo establishment.
   G.   "Outcall tattooing" means the engaging in or carrying on of tattooing
for compensation in a location other than the business operations address set
forth on the tattoo establishment business license.
   H.   "Owner" or "tattoo establishment owner" means any of the following
persons:
      1.   Any person who is a general partner of a general or limited
partnership that owns a tattoo establishment.
      2.   Any person who has a five percent or greater ownership interest in a
corporation that owns a tattoo establishment.
      3.   Any person who is a member of a limited liability company that owns
a tattoo establishment.
      4.   Any person who has a five percent or greater ownership interest in
any other type of business association that owns a tattoo establishment.
   I.   "Person" means any individual, sole proprietorship, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, joint venture, limited liability company, or
combination of individuals.
   J.   "Sole proprietorship" means and includes any legal form of business
organization where the business owner (sometimes referred to as the "sole
proprietor'') is the only person employed by that business to provide tattooing
services.
   K.   "Tattoo establishment" means any business where permanent marking or
coloring of the skin is performed by pricking in coloring matter or by
producing scars by use of heat, blades, or needles, and which is conducted in
exchange for financial or other valuable consideration. Does not include the
application of permanent cosmetics (permanent makeup) or tattooing when applied
by a licensed dermatologist on premises licensed as a dermatological office.
Any business that offers any combination of tattooing and other services shall
be deemed a tattoo establishment under this article.
   L.   "Tattooing" means to pierce or puncture the human skin with a needle or
other instrument for the purpose of the application of pigments or the
inserting of pigment under the surface of the skin; the application of pigments
or inks inserted into or under the skin for the purpose of producing a mark or
by production of scars.
(Ord. O-2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.150 Operating requirements.
   At any time after the effective date of this ordinance, no person shall
engage in, conduct, carry on, or permit any tattooing, application of permanent
makeup, or branding or body piercing within the city of Pismo Beach unless all
of the following requirements are met:
   A.   No new tattoo establishment shall be established or operated within one
thousand (1,000) feet from any like establishment. One thousand feet shall be
the minimum linear distance between the closest points along the boundaries of
the parcel upon which the existing personal services business is located and
the parcel upon which the additional personal services business is proposed,
respectively, as determined by the community development director or designee.
   B.   Tattoo establishments shall operate only between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
   C.   Service or consumption of alcohol, cannabis-based substances, or other
controlled substances shall not be permitted in a tattoo establishment. No
smoking shall be allowed inside of a tattoo establishment pursuant to section
6404.5 of the California State Labor Code.
   D.   "Specified anatomical areas" as defined in Title 17 of this code shall
not be exposed in the publicly accessible areas of the tattoo establishment or
viewable from the public right-of-way.
   E.   The operator of a tattoo establishment shall prevent loitering and loud
noises around the subject site during and after the hours of business
operation.
   F.   A sign stating, "No tattoo service will be provided for anyone under
the age of 18," shall be visible at all times on or immediately adjacent to the
front entrance to the tattoo establishment.
   G.   The operator of a tattoo establishment shall comply with all applicable
California and county of San Luis Obispo health regulations including, but not
limited to the state Safe Body Art Act regarding the establishment and
operation of businesses engaged in tattooing, body piercing and permanent
cosmetic application.
   H.   Tattoo establishments shall be developed and maintained in a neat,
quiet, and orderly condition and operated in a manner so as not to be
detrimental to adjacent properties and occupants. This shall encompass the
maintenance of exterior facades of the building, designated parking areas
serving the tattoo establishment, fences and the perimeter of the site
(including all public parkways).
   I.   Exterior security bars and roll-up doors applied to windows and
pedestrian building entrances shall be prohibited.
   J.   The operator of a tattoo establishment shall remove any graffiti found
on the exterior of a tattoo establishment not later than twenty-four (24) hours
after its appearance.
   K.   Each tattoo establishment shall have a readily accessible sink that is
not in a public restroom and is equipped with hot and cold running water. All
tables, chairs, furniture or other procedure surfaces that may be exposed to
blood or body fluids during the tattooing or piercing procedure shall be
constructed of stainless steel, or other suitable material that will allow
complete sanitization, and shall be sanitized between uses with a liquid
chemical germicide. For each client, single use disposable barriers shall be
provided on all equipment used as part of the procedure that cannot be
sterilized. Examples may include, but are not limited to spray bottles,
procedure light fixture handles, and tattoo machines.
   L.   All inks, dyes, and other pigments shall be specifically manufactured
for tattoo procedures and FDA-approved. The mixing of approved inks, dyes, or
pigments, or their dilution with distilled water or alcohol is acceptable.
Immediately before applying a tattoo or permanent cosmetic, the quantity of the
dye used shall be transferred from the dye bottle and placed into single use
paper or plastic cups. Upon completion of the application, these single use
cups and their contents shall be discarded.
   M.   Tattoo establishments shall have an artificial light source equivalent
to twenty (20) foot-candles at least three (3) feet above the floor. At least
one hundred (100) foot-candles of light shall be provided at the level where
body art procedures are performed, where sterilization takes place, and where
instruments and sharps are assembled.
   N.   The area(s) where tattooing or body piercing are performed must be
separated from any retail sales area or any other area that may cause potential
cross-contamination of work surfaces.
   O.   Single-use gloves of adequate size and quality as to preserve dexterity
shall be used for touching clients, for handling sterile instruments, or for
handling blood or body fluids. Gloves must be changed if they become damaged,
come in contact with any non-clean surface or objects, or come in contact with
a third person. Gloves shall be discarded after the completion of a procedure
on a client.
(Ord. O-2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.160 Inspection by officials.
   The investigating and enforcing officials of the city of Pismo Beach and the
county of San Luis Obispo, including but not limited to law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire officials, health officer, and the director of community
development, or their respective authorized representative(s) or designee(s),
shall have the right to enter a tattoo establishment from time to time during
regular business hours for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to
observe and enforce compliance with building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
health regulations, and to enforce compliance with applicable regulations,
laws, and statutes, and with the provisions of this article. The Pismo Beach
police department, community development department, and fire department may
charge a nonrefundable fee for any safety inspections. Such fee shall be
established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. O-2019-012 § 2 (part),
2019)
Article III. Other Personal Services Businesses
5.11.170 Definitions.
   A.   "Check-cashing establishment." Any establishment whose primary purpose
is to provide check cashing, pay day loans, car title loans, signature loans,
and other similar financial services. Does not include a state or federally
chartered bank, savings association, credit union, or industrial loan company.
Does not include retail sellers engaged primarily in the business of selling
consumer goods that provides check cashing services for a flat fee not
exceeding two dollars ($2.00) as an incidental service.
   B.   "Gold and silver exchange." Any establishment that is engaged in
accepting gold, silver, and/or other precious metals, primarily from jewelry,
in exchange for monies. For establishments that engage in the exchange of
monies for valuable articles other than precious metals, see "pawn shop."
   C.   "Pawn shop." Any establishment that engages in the business of
receiving jewelry, precious stones, valuables, firearms, clothing, personal
property, or any other article or articles in pledge for loans, or as security,
or in pawn for the repayment of monies, and exacts an interest for such loans,
or that purchases articles or personal property and agrees to resell such
articles so purchased to the vendors thereof, or their assigns, at prices
agreed upon at or before the time of such purchases, respectively. Does not
include banks, trust companies, or bond brokers, who may otherwise be regulated
by law and authorized to deal in commercial papers, shares of stock, bonds, and
other certificates of value.
   D.   "Smoke shop." Any establishment that either: (1) devotes more than
fifteen percent (15%) of its floor space or (2) devotes at least sixteen (16)
cumulative cubic feet of shelf space to smoking paraphernalia. For purposes of
this section, "smoking paraphernalia" means paraphernalia relating to the
smoking of tobacco, cannabis, or other psychoactive substances, or inhalation
of vapor containing nicotine, tetrahydrocannabinol, or other psychoactive
substances, including but not limited to pipes, rolling papers, grinders,
lighters, vape pens/e- cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars, chew, and loose tobacco.
(Ord. O-2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
5.11.180 Proximity limitations.
   No personal service business defined in this article shall be established or
operated within one thousand (1,000) feet from any like establishment. One
thousand feet shall be the minimum linear distance between the closest points
along the boundaries of the parcel upon which the existing personal services
business is located and the parcel upon which the additional personal services
business is proposed, respectively, as determined by the community development
director or designee. (Ord. O-2019- 012 § 2 (part), 2019)
Article IV. Violations
5.11.190 Violations.
   A.   Violations. Every person, except those persons who are specifically
exempted by this chapter, whether acting as an individual, owner, employee of
the owner, operator or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere
helper for the owner, employee or operator, or whether acting as a participant
or worker in any way, who violates any provision of this chapter, is guilty of
a misdemeanor.
   B.   Upon a finding by a law enforcement or code enforcement officer that a
person or business has violated any provision of this chapter, the officer may
issue an administrative citation as outlined in
Chapter 1.24 of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
   C.   Separate violations. Each violation of any provision of this chapter
shall constitute a separate violation. Each day upon which a personal services
establishment regulated by this chapter remains open for business in violation
of this chapter shall also constitute a separate violation.
   D.   Failure to pay fine. If said fine is not paid within the time period
specified on the administrative violation, an additional late fee shall be
charged. The amount of the late fee shall be ten percent of the total amount of
the civil penalty due. In addition, any outstanding fines must be paid prior to
the issuance or renewal of any permit or city of Pismo Beach business license.
(Ord. O-2019-012 § 2 (part), 2019)
Chapter 5.12 CABLE SYSTEM FRANCHISES*
Note to Article 12
   * Editor's Note: Existing ordinances 85-4 and 85-13 shall apply to any cable
system franchise in force prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified
in this chapter.
   Prior code history: Prior code §§ 4.04.010--4.04.070.011, 4.04.080.005,
4.04.090.001--4.04.090.007, 4.04.100.001, 4.04.100.002, 4.04.110.001,
4.04.120.001--4.04.120.003, 4.04.130.001--4.04.130.005, 4.04.130.007,
4.04.130.009-4.04.130.014, 4.04.140.001--4.04.140.008, 4.04.150.001,
4.04.150.002
Article I. General
5.12.010 Authority.
   The city pursuant to applicable federal and state law, is authorized to
grant one or more non-exclusive franchises to construct, operate, maintain and
construct cable systems within the city limits. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.020 Findings.
   The city council finds that the development of cable systems has the
potential of having great benefit and impact upon the residents of the city.
Because of the complex and rapidly changing technology associated with cable
systems, the city council further finds that the public convenience, safety and
general welfare can best be served by establishing regulatory powers which
should be vested in the city or such persons as the city may designate. It is
the intent of this chapter and subsequent amendments to provide for and specify
the means to attain the best possible cable service to the public and any
franchises issued pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this as
an integral finding thereof. It is the further intent of this chapter to
establish regulatory provisions that permit the city to regulate cable system
franchises to the extent permitted by federal and state law, including but not
limited to the Federal Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, the Federal
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996, applicable Federal Communications Commission
regulations and applicable California law. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.022 Short title.
   This chapter shall constitute the "Cable System Regulatory Ordinance" of the
city of Pismo Beach and may be referred to as such. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part),
2001)
5.12.024 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. Words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   "Basic cable service" means any service tier which includes the
retransmission of local television broadcast signals.
   "Cable operator" means any person or group of persons who:
   1.   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly or through one
or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such cable system; or
   2.   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement, the
management and operation of such cable system.
   "Cable service" means:
   1.   The one-way transmission to subscribers of:
   a.   Video programming; or
   b.   Other programming service; and
   2.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or
use of such video programming or other programming service.
   "Cable system" or "system" means a facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes video
programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within a community,
but such term does not include:
   1.   A facility that serves only to retransmit television signals of one or
more television broadcast stations;
   2.   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public rights-of-
way;
   3.   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part,
to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended,
except that such facility shall be considered a cable system (other than for
the purposes of 47 USC 541) to the extent such facility is used in the
transmission of video programming directly to subscribers; unless the extent of
such use is solely to provide interactive on-demand services;
   4.   An open video system that complies with 47 USC 573 (Section 653 of the
Communications Act of 1934); or
   5.   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating its
electric utility system.
   "Channel" or "cable channel" means a portion of the electromagnetic
frequency spectrum, which is used in a cable system and which is capable of
delivering a television channel as defined by the Federal Commun-ications
Commission.
   "Council" means the city council of the city of Pismo Beach.
   "Franchise" means an initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by
the council, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise, which
authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not supersede the requirement to
obtain any other license or permit required for the privilege of transacting
business within the city as required by the other ordinances and laws of the
city.
   "Franchise agreement" means a franchise grant ordinance or a contractual
agreement, containing the specific provisions of the franchise granted,
including references, specifications, requirements and other related matters.
   "Franchise fee" means any fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the city
on a grantee as compensation for the grantee's use of the public rights-of-way
for the provision of cable service. The term "franchise fee" does not include:
   1.   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any such
tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their
services, but not including a tax, fee or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
   2.   Capital costs which are required by the franchise to be incurred by
grantee for public, educational, or governmental access facilities;
   3.   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding or enforcing of the
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
   4.   Any fee imposed under Title 17, United States Code.
   "Grantee" means any "person" receiving a franchise pursuant to this chapter
and under the granting franchise ordinance or agreement, and its lawful
successor, transferee or assignee.
   "Grantor" or "city" means the city of Pismo Beach as represented by the
council or any delegate, acting within the lawful scope of its jurisdiction.
   "Gross annual cable service revenues" means the annual gross revenues
received by a grantee from the operations of the cable system within the city
to provide cable service utilizing the public rights-of-way for which a
franchise is required, excluding refundable deposits, rebates or credits, and
any sales, excise or other taxes or charges imposed externally to the
franchise, and collected for direct pass-through to local, state or federal
government.
   "Installation" means the connection of the system to subscribers' terminals,
and the provision of service.
   "Person" means an individual, partnership, association, joint stock company,
trust, corporation or governmental entity.
   "Public, educational or government access facilities" or "PEG access
facilities" means the total of the following:
   1.   Channel capacity designated for noncommercial public, educational, or
government use; and
   2.   Facilities and equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
   "Section" means any section, subsection or provision of this chapter.
   "Service area" or "franchise area" means the entire geographic area within
the municipal boundaries of the city as it is now constituted or may in the
future be constituted, unless otherwise specified in the franchise.
   "Service tier" means a category of cable service or other services provided
by a cable operator and for which a separate rate is charged.
   "State" means the state of California.
   "Street" or "public way" or "public rights-of-way" means each of the
following which have been dedicated to the public or are hereafter dedicated to
the public and maintained under public authority or by others and located
within the service area: streets, roadways, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys,
sidewalks, easements, rights-of-way and similar public property.
   "Subscriber" or "customer" or "consumer" means any person who or which
elects to subscribe to, for any purpose, cable service provided by the grantee
by means of or in connection with the cable system, and who pays the charges
therefor. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article II. Franchise Terms and Conditions
5.12.030 Franchise purposes.
   A franchise granted by the city under the provisions of this chapter shall
encompass the following purposes:
   A.   To permit the grantee to engage in the business of providing cable
service, and such other services as may be permitted by law which grantee
chooses to provide to subscribers within the designated service area.
   B.   To permit the grantee to erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild,
reconstruct, replace, maintain, and retain, cable lines, related electronic
equipment, supporting structures, appurtenances, and other property in
connection with the operation of the cable system in, on, over, under, upon,
along and across streets or other public places within the designated service
area.
   C.   To permit the grantee to maintain and operate said franchise properties
for the origination, reception, transmission, amplification, and distribution
of television and radio signals and for the delivery of cable services, and
such other services as may be permitted by law.
   D.   To set forth the obligations of the grantee under the franchise. (Ord.
01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.040 Franchise required.
   After the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful for any person to construct, install or operate a cable system in
the city within any public way without a properly granted franchise awarded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.050 Term of the franchise.
   A.   A franchise granted hereunder shall be for a term established in the
franchise agreement, commencing on the grantor's adoption of an ordinance or
resolution author-izing the franchise.
   B.   A franchise granted hereunder may be renewed upon application by the
grantee pursuant to the provisions of applicable state and federal law. (Ord.
01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.060 Franchise territory.
   Any franchise shall be valid within all the municipal limits of the city,
and within any area added to the city during the term of the franchise, unless
otherwise specified in the franchise agreement.
5.12.070 Federal or state jurisdiction.
   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all applicable
federal and state laws, and shall apply to all franchises granted or renewed
after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter to the
extent permitted by applicable law.
5.12.080 Franchise non-transferable.
   A.   Grantee shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign or dispose of, in whole
or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale,
contract, consoli-dation or otherwise, the franchise or any of the rights or
privileges therein granted, without the prior consent of the council, which
consent shall not be unreasonably denied, withheld or delayed; provided,
however, that the prior consent of the council shall not be required for an
intracorporate or intracompany transfer from one wholly-owned subsidiary to
another wholly-owned subsidiary. Any attempt to sell, transfer, lease, assign
or otherwise dispose of the Franchise without the consent of the council shall
be null and void. The granting of a security interest in any grantee assets, or
any mortgage or other hypothecation or by assignment of any right, title or
interest in the cable system in order to secure indebtedness, shall not be
considered a transfer for the purposes of this section.
   B.   The requirements of subsection (A) shall apply to any change in control
of grantee. The word "control" as used herein includes majority ownership, and
actual working control in whatever manner exercised. In the event that grantee
is a corporation, prior consent of the council shall be required where
ownership or control of more than twenty percent of the voting stock of the
grantee is acquired by a person or group of persons acting in concert, none of
whom own or control the voting stock of the grantee as of the effective date of
the franchise, singularly or collectively.
   C.   Grantee shall notify grantor in writing of any foreclosure or any other
judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the franchise property of the
grantee or upon the termination of any lease or interest covering all or a
substantial part of said franchise property. Such notification shall be
considered by grantor as notice that a change in control of ownership of the
franchise has taken place and the provisions under this section governing the
consent of grantor to such change in control of ownership shall apply.
   D.   For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such change,
transfer, or acquisition of control, grantor may inquire into the
qualifications of the prospective transferee or controlling party, and grantee
shall assist grantor in such inquiry. In seeking grantor's consent to any
change of ownership or control, grantee shall have the responsibility of
insuring that the grantee and/or the proposed transferee complete an
application in accordance with Federal Communications Commission Form 394 or
equivalent. Grantor may require grantee to submit such additional information
as the grantor may reasonably require to determine that the proposed transferee
possesses the legal, technical and financial qualifications, or that grantee is
in compliance with all substantive franchise requirements. Said grantor
requests shall be made within thirty business days of receipt of the FCC Form
394 or equivalent. An application shall be submitted to grantor not less than
one hundred twenty days prior to the proposed date of transfer. If the legal,
technical and financial qualifications of the applicant are determined by the
grantor to be satisfactory, and if grantor determines that grantee is in
compliance with all substantive franchise requirements, the grantor shall
consent to the transfer of the franchise. If the grantor has not taken action
on the grantee's request for transfer within one hundred twenty days after
receiving FCC Form 394 or equivalent, grantor's consent to such transfer shall
be deemed given. The consent of the grantor to such transfer shall not be
unreasonably denied or delayed. Grantor does not waive any legal authority it
may have to impose conditions on the transfer.
   E.   Any financial institution having a pledge of the grantee or its assets
for the advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of the
franchise shall have the right to notify the grantor that it or its designee
satisfactory to the grantor shall take control of and operate the cable system,
in the event of a grantee default of its financial obligations. Further, said
financial institution shall also agree in writing to continue cable service and
comply with all franchise requirements during the term the financial
institution exercises control over the System.
   F.   Upon transfer, grantee shall reimburse grantor for grantor's reasonable
processing and review expenses in connection with the transfer of the
franchise, including without limitation, costs of administrative review,
financial, legal and technical evaluation of the proposed transferee,
consultants (including technical and legal experts and all costs incurred by
such experts), notice and publication costs and document preparation expenses.
Any such reimbursement shall not be charged against any franchise fee due to
grantor during the term of the franchise. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.090 Geographical coverage.
   A.   Grantee shall design, construct and maintain the cable system to have
the capability to pass every residential dwelling unit in the service area,
subject to any service area line extension requirements of the franchise
agreement.
   B.   After service has been established by activating trunk and/or
distribution cables for any service area, Grantee shall provide service to any
requesting subscriber within that service area within thirty days from the date
of request, provided that the grantee is able to secure all rights-of-way
necessary to extend service to such subscriber within such thirty day period on
reasonable terms and conditions. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.100 Nonexclusive franchise.
   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be nonexclusive. The
grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional
franchises for a cable system, as it deems appropriate, subject to applicable
state and federal law, provided that if the grantor grants an additional
franchise, then the material provisions of any such additional franchise shall
be reasonably comparable to the terms and conditions contained in the initial
grantee's franchise, so that all grantees are accorded competitively neutral
and nondiscriminatory treatment. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.110 Multiple franchises.
   A.   Grantor may grant any number of franchises subject to applicable state
or federal law. Grantor may limit the number of franchises granted, based upon,
but not necessarily limited to, the requirements of applicable law and specific
local considerations, such as:
   1.   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate multiple cables
in addition to the cables, conduits and pipes of the utility systems, such as
electrical power, telephone, gas and sewerage.
   2.   The benefits that may accrue to subscribers as a result of cable system
competition, such as lower rates and improved service.
   3.   The disadvantages that may result from cable system competition, such
as the requirement for multiple pedestals on residents' property, and the
disruption arising from numerous excavations of the public rights-of-way.
   B.   Where electric and telephone utilities are to be placed underground in
any new residential housing developments, grantor and the developer of such new
residential housing shall give each grantee serving the franchise area within
which the new residential housing development is located at least ten working
days prior written notice of the date on which open trenching will be available
for the grantee's installation of conduit, pedestals and vaults. On request of
the grantor or developer, the grantee shall provide specifications needed for
trenching.
   C.   Grantor may require that any new entrant, nonincumbent grantee be
responsible for its own underground trenching and the costs associated
therewith, if, in grantor's opinion, the public rights-of-way in any particular
area cannot feasibly and reasonably accommodate additional cables. (Ord. 01-01
§ 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.120 Franchise modification.
   The grantee may be required to pay any costs incurred by the grantor in
processing a grantee request for franchise modification, lease, hypothecation
or trust of franchise. Such costs may include the costs incurred for hiring
consultants to assist in evaluating the request. Such costs shall be paid by
the grantee prior to final consideration of the request by the grantor. (Ord.
01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article III. Franchise Applications and Renewal.
5.12.130 Filing of applications.
   Any person desiring an initial franchise for a cable system shall file an
application with the city. A reasonable nonrefundable initial application fee
established by the city shall accompany the initial franchise application to
cover all validly documented reasonable costs associated with processing and
reviewing the application, including without limitation costs of administrative
review, financial, legal and technical evaluation of the applicant, consultants
(including technical and legal experts and all costs incurred by such experts),
notice and publication requirements with respect to the consideration of the
application and document preparation expenses. In the event such validly
documented reasonable costs exceed the application fee, the selected applicant
(s) shall pay the difference to the city within thirty days following receipt
of an itemized statement of such costs. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.140 Applications—Contents.
   An application for an initial franchise for a cable system shall contain,
where applicable:
   A.   A statement as to the proposed franchise and service area;
   B.   A resume of prior history of the applicant, including the expertise of
applicant in the cable system field;
   C.   A list of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by each
stockholder, if a corporation;
   D.   A list of officers, directors and managing employees of the applicant,
together with a description of the background of each such person;
   E.   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the applicant or
any other business entity owning or controlling the applicant in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant;
   F.   A current financial statement of the applicant verified by a certified
public accountant audit or otherwise certified to be true, complete and correct
to the reasonable satisfaction of the city;
   G.   A proposed construction and service schedule;
   H.   Any reasonable relevant additional information that the city deems
applicable. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.150 Consideration of initial applications.
   A.   Upon receipt of any application for an initial franchise, the city
manager or a delegate shall prepare a report and make recommendations
respecting such application to the council.
   B.   A public hearing shall be set prior to any initial franchise grant, at
a time and date approved by the council. Within sixty days after the close of
the hearing, the council shall make a decision based upon the evidence received
at the hearing as to whether or not the initial franchise(s) should be granted,
and, if granted, subject to what conditions. The council may grant one or more
franchises, or may decline to grant any franchise. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part),
2001)
5.12.160 Franchise renewal.
   Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable law. Grantor and
grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal negotiations at any time
during the term of the franchise. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article IV. Minimum Consumer Protection and Service Standards
5.12.170 Operational standards.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, grantee shall
maintain the necessary facilities, equipment and personnel to comply with the
following consumer protection and service standards under normal conditions of
operation:
   1.   Sufficient toll-free telephone line capacity during normal business
hours to assure telephone answer time by a customer service representative,
including wait time, shall not exceed thirty seconds; and callers needing to be
transferred within grantee's operation shall not be required to wait more than
thirty seconds before being connected to a service representative. Under normal
operating conditions, a caller shall receive a busy signal less than three
percent of the time.
   2.   Emergency toll-free telephone line capacity on a twenty-four hour
basis, including weekends and holidays. After normal business hours, the
telephone calls may be answered by a service or an automated response system,
including an answering machine. Calls received after normal business hours must
be responded to by a trained company representative on the next business day.
During periods when an answering service or machine is used, grantee shall
provide on-call personnel who shall contact the answering service or machine,
at a minimum, every four hours to check on requests for service or complaints.
   3.   A conveniently located local business and service and/or payment office
open during normal business hours at least eight hours daily, and at least four
hours weekly on evenings or weekends, and adequately staffed to accept
subscriber payments and respond to service requests and complaints. The grantee
may petition the grantor to reduce its business hours if the extended hours are
not justified by subscriber demand.
   4.   An emergency system maintenance and repair staff, capable of responding
to and repairing major system malfunction on a twenty-four hour per day basis.
   5.   An installation staff, capable of installing service to any subscriber
requiring a standard installation within seven days after receipt of a request,
in all areas where trunk and feeder cable have been activated. "Standard
installations" shall be those that are located up to one hundred twenty-five
feet from the existing distribution system, unless otherwise defined in any
franchise agreement.
   6.   Grantee shall schedule, within a specified four hour time period during
normal business hours, all appointments with subscribers for installation of
service, service calls and other activities at the subscriber location. Grantee
may schedule installation and service calls outside of normal business hours
for the express convenience of the customer. Grantee shall not cancel an
appointment with a customer after the close of business on the business day
prior to the scheduled appointment. If a grantee representative is running late
for an appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment
as scheduled, the customer shall be contacted as soon as possible and the
appointment rescheduled, as necessary, at a time which is convenient for the
customer, and within reason.
   B.   The standards of paragraphs A1 and A2 above shall be met not less than
ninety percent of the time measured on a quarterly basis. The standards of
paragraphs A4--A6 shall be met not less than ninety-five percent of the time
measured on a quarterly basis.
   C.   Grantee shall not be required to acquire equipment or perform surveys
to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above unless an
historical record of complaints indicates a clear failure to comply. (Ord. 01-
01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.180 Service standards.
   A.   Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Scheduled interruptions of an anticipated duration of two consecutive hours or
longer, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur during
a period of minimum use of the cable system, preferably between midnight and
six a.m. local time.
   B.   The grantee shall maintain a repair force of technicians normally
capable of responding to subscriber requests for service within the following
time frames:
   1.   For a system outage: Within two hours, including weekends, of receiving
subscriber calls or requests for service which by number identify a system
outage of sound or picture of one or more channels, affecting at least ten
percent of the subscribers of the system.
   2.   For an isolated outage: Within twenty-four hours, including weekends,
of receiving requests for service identifying an isolated outage of sound or
picture for one or more channels that affects three or more subscribers. On
weekends, an outage affecting fewer than three subscribers shall result in a
service call no later than the next business day.
   3.   For inferior signal quality: Within two business days of receiving a
request for service identifying a problem concerning picture or sound quality.
   C.   In the event a service problem requires a visit to the subscriber's
residence, grantee shall be deemed to have responded to a request for service
under the provisions of this section when a technician arrives at the service
location and begins work on the problem. In the case of a subscriber not being
home when the technician arrives, the technician shall leave written
notification of arrival.
   D.   Grantee shall not charge for the repair or replacement of defective or
malfunctioning equipment provided by grantee to subscribers, unless the defect
was caused by the subscriber.
   E.   Unless excused, grantee shall determine the nature of the problem
within two business days of beginning work and resolve all cable system related
problems within five business days unless technically infeasible. (Ord. 01-01 §
3, (part), 2001)
5.12.190 Billing and information standards.
   A.   Subscriber bills shall be clear, concise and understandable. Bills
shall be fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic
and premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills shall also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
   B.   In case of a billing dispute, the grantee shall respond to a written
complaint from a subscriber within thirty days.
   C.   Upon request, grantee shall provide credits or refunds to subscribers
whose service has been interrupted for two or more hours for interruption(s)
beyond the reasonable control of the grantee.
   Credits or refunds shall automatically be provided by grantee on a pro rate
basis to any subscriber(s) affected by interruption(s) of service for more than
two hours due to actions or outages under the control of the grantee, exclusive
of scheduled repairs or maintenance that grantee has provided advance notice of
to subscribers. In cases where notice has been given to subscribers and the
service interruption exceeds the period detailed in said notice, the provisions
of this section shall apply.
   In the event grantee has improperly or inadvertently disconnected cable
services to a subscriber, grantee shall provide for restoration without charge
to subscriber within two days of discovery of disconnection. Grantee shall
credit or provide refunds to any subscriber improperly or inadvertently
disconnected from receiving cable services for the period of time without cable
service.
   All credits or refunds for service shall be issued no later than the
customer's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted. For subscribers terminating service, refunds shall be issued
promptly, but no later than thirty days after the return of any grantee-
supplied equipment.
   D.   Grantee shall provide written information on each of the following
areas: (i) at the time of the installation of cable service, (ii) at least
annually to all subscribers, and (iii) at any time upon request:
   1.   Cable services offered;
   2.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other cable services;
   3.   Installation and service maintenance policies;
   4.   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
   5.   Channel positions of programming carried on the system; and
   6.   Billing and complaint procedures, including the, address and telephone
number of the grantor office designated for dealing with cable-related issues.
   E.   Subscribers shall be notified of any changes in rates, programming
services or channel positions as soon as possible in writing and in accordance
with state and federal law. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of
thirty days in advance of such changes if the change is within the control of
the grantee. In addition, grantee shall notify subscribers thirty days in
advance of any significant changes in the information required in paragraph D.
(Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.200 Verification of compliance with standards.
   A.   Upon thirty calendar days prior written notice, grantee shall respond
to a request for information made by grantor regarding grantee's compliance
with any or all of the standards required in Sections
5.12.160, 5.12.170 and
5.12.180. Grantee shall provide sufficient docu-mentation to permit grantor to
verify grantee's compliance for the previous twenty-four month period. Grantee
may request, and grantor shall not unreasonably deny, a request for a
reasonable extension of time in which to produce such documentation.
   B.   A repeated and verifiable pattern of non-compliance with the consumer
protection standards of Sections
5.12.160 through
5.12.180 above, after grantee's receipt of due notice and a reasonable
opportunity to cure, may be deemed a material breach of the franchise
agreement.
   C.   In order to determine whether sufficient telephone lines are provided,
the grantor may require, upon thirty calendar days written notice, the grantee
to submit a report verifying the adequacy of its telephone line capacity. If
grantee is unable to provide such a report, grantor may require that a busy
study, traffic study or other study be conducted, at grantee's expense, if any,
by the local telephone company. Should grantee have its own telephone equipment
which can report on telephone line(s) usage, the grantee may submit such report
from its own system. The grantor may require grantee to acquire equipment to
determine compliance with the telephone answering standards of this section.
   D.   Should the grantor determine that insufficient telephone lines or
inadequate staff exists, grantee shall take necessary steps to ensure that
adequate telephone lines and/or staffing are available to permit grantee to
satisfy its obligations under this chapter and the franchise. Consideration
shall be given for periods of promotional activities or outages. The monthly
billing period shall be considered as a normal, daily activity for purposes of
determining the availability of adequate telephone lines and/or staffing. (Ord.
01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.210 Subscriber complaints and disputes.
   A.   Grantee shall establish written procedures for receiving, acting upon
and resolving subscriber complaints without intervention by the grantor. The
written procedures shall prescribe the manner in which a subscriber may submit
a complaint either orally or in writing specifying the subscriber's grounds for
dis-satisfaction. Grantee shall file a copy of these procedures with grantor.
The written procedures shall include a requirement that grantee respond to any
written complaint from a subscriber within thirty days of receipt.
   B.   Upon prior written request, grantor shall have the right to review
grantee's response to any subscriber complaints in order to determine grantee's
compliance with the franchise requirements, subject to the subscriber's right
to privacy.
   C.   Subject to applicable law, it shall be the right of all subscribers to
continue receiving cable service insofar as their financial and other
obligations to the grantee are honored. In the event that the grantee elects to
rebuild, modify, or sell the system, or the grantor gives notice of intent to
terminate or not to renew the franchise, the grantee shall act so as to ensure
that all subscribers receive cable service so long as the franchise remains in
force.
   D.   In the event of a change of control of grantee, or in the event a new
operator acquires the system, the original grantee shall cooperate with the
grantor, new grantee or operator in maintaining continuity of service to all
subscribers. During such period, grantee shall be entitled to the revenues for
any period during which it operates the system.
   E.   Grantee response to subscriber complaints, as well as complaints made
by subscribers to grantor and provided by grantor to grantee, shall be
initiated within one business day of receipt by grantee. The resolution of
subscriber complaints shall be effected by grantee not later than three
business days after receipt of the complaint. For complaints received by
grantor and provided by grantor to grantee, grantee shall notify grantor of
grantee's progress in responding to, and resolving, said complaints. (Ord. 01-
01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.220 Other requirements.
   A.   In the event grantee fails to operate the system for seven consecutive
days other than for reasons beyond the control of grantee, without prior
approval or subsequent excuse of the grantor, the grantor may, at its sole
option, operate the system or designate an operator until such time as grantee
restores service under conditions acceptable to the grantor or a permanent
operator is selected. If the grantor should fulfill this obligation for the
grantee, then during such period as the grantor fulfills such obligation, the
grantor shall be entitled to collect all revenues from the system, and the
grantee shall reimburse the grantor for all reasonable costs or damages in
excess of the revenues collected by grantor that are the result of grantee's
failure to perform.
   B.   All officers, agents or employees of grantee or its contractors or
subcontractors who, in the normal course of work come into contact with members
of the public or who require entry onto subscribers' premises shall carry a
photo identification card. Grantee shall account for all identification cards
at all times. Every vehicle of the grantee or its major subcontractors shall be
clearly identified as working for grantee.
   C.   Additional service standards and standards governing consumer
protection and response by grantee to subscriber complaints not otherwise
provided for in this chapter may be established in the franchise agreement or
by separate ordinance. A verified and continuing pattern of noncompliance may
be deemed a material breach of the franchise, provided that grantee shall
receive due process, including prior written notification and a reasonable
opportunity to cure, prior to any sanction being imposed. (Ord. 01-01 § 3
(part), 2001)
Article V. Franchise Fee and Financial Requirement
5.12.230 Franchise fee.
   A.   Following the issuance and acceptance of the franchise, the grantee
shall pay to the grantor a franchise fee on gross annual cable service revenues
in the amount and at the times set forth in the franchise agreement.
   B.   In the event that any franchise fee payment or payment of any
adjustment to any franchise fee is not made on or before the dates specified in
the franchise agreement, grantee shall pay:
   1.   An interest charge, computed from such due date, at an annual rate
equal to the highest of the most recently published prime lending rate of any
of the five largest member banks of the New York Clearing House Association,
plus two percent during the period for which payment was due; and
   2.   If the payment is late by ninety days or more, a sum of money equal to
five percent of the amount due in order to defray those additional expenses and
costs incurred by the grantor due to grantee's delinquent payment.
   C.   In the event grantee overpays its franchise fee, the grantee shall
notify the grantor in writing, and provide sufficient documentation to verify
the alleged overpayment. Upon written authorization by the grantor, the grantee
may begin deducting the amount overpaid beginning with the next franchise fee
payment due from grantee to grantor, and grantee may continue to deduct the
amount paid on subsequent franchise fee payments until the amount overpaid is
fully reimbursed to grantee.
   D.   The grantor, on an annual basis, shall be furnished a statement within
ninety days of the close of the calendar year, either audited and certified by
an independent certified public accountant or certified by an officer of the
grantee, reflecting the total amounts of gross revenues and all payments,
deductions and computations for the period covered by the payment.
   E.   Franchise fee payments shall be made in accordance with the schedule
indicated in the franchise agreement.
   F.   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the grantor shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the grantor may have for further or additional sums payable as a
franchise fee under this chapter or for the performance of any other obligation
of the grantee. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.240 Franchise fee audit.
   Upon thirty days prior written notice, grantor shall have the right to
conduct an independent financial audit of grantee's gross annual cable service
revenues and franchise fee records, in accordance with generally accepted
accounting procedures (GAAP), and if such audit indicates a franchise fee
underpayment of two percent or more, the grantee shall assume all reasonable
documented costs of such audit. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.250 Security fund.
   A.   Grantor may require grantee to provide a security fund, in an amount
and form established in the franchise agreement. The amount of the security
fund shall be established based on the extent of the grantee's obligations
under the terms of the franchise.
   B.   The security fund shall be available to grantor to satisfy all claims,
liens and/or taxes due grantor from grantee which arise by reason of
construction, operation, or maintenance of the system, and to satisfy any
actual or liquidated damages arising out of a material breach of the franchise
agreement, subject to the procedures and amounts designated in the franchise
agreement.
   C.   If the security fund is drawn upon by grantor in accordance with the
procedures established in this chapter and the franchise agreement, grantee
shall cause the security fund to be replenished to the original amount no later
than thirty days after receiving written confirmation from the bank where such
security fund is deposited that grantor has made a draw against the security
fund. Failure to replenish the security fund shall be deemed a material breach
of the franchise. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article VI. Construction Requirement
5.12.260 System Construction.
   A.   Grantee shall not construct any cable system facilities until grantee
has secured the necessary permits from grantor, or other responsible public
agencies. The grantee shall be subject to all permit and bonding requirements
applicable to contractors working within the public rights-of-way. No provision
of this chapter or the franchise agreement shall be deemed a waiver of the
obligation of a grantee to pay grantor for the issuance of a permit.
   B.   In those areas of the city where transmission lines or distribution
facilities of the public utilities providing telephone and electric power
service are underground, the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and
maintain its transmission and distribution facilities underground.
   C.   In those areas of the city where the grantee's cables are located on
the above-ground transmission or distribution facilities of the public and/or
municipal utility providing telephone or electric power service, and in the
event that the facilities of both the telephone and electric power utilities
subsequently are placed underground, then the grantee likewise shall
reconstruct, operate and maintain its transmission and distribution facilities
underground, at grantee's cost, provided, however, that if grantee is required
by the grantor to place any of grantee's pre-existing above-ground cable system
underground, the grantee shall be allowed to recover from subscribers such
reasonable and documented undergrounding costs in the manner prescribed by and
in accordance with federal and state law and regulation. Certain of grantee's
existing equipment, such as pedestals, amplifiers and power supplies, which
normally are placed above ground, may continue to remain in above-ground
enclosures, unless otherwise provided in the franchise agreement.
   D.   Any changes in or extensions of any poles, anchors, wires, cables,
conduits, vaults, laterals or other fixtures and equipment (herein referred to
as "structures"), or the construction of any additional structures, in, upon,
along, across, under or over the streets, alleys and public ways shall be made
under the direction of grantor's city manager or the city manager's designee,
who shall, if the proposed change, extension or construction conforms to the
provisions hereof, issue written permits therefor within thirty days of
receiving a complete permit application. The height above public thoroughfares
of all aerial wires shall conform to the requirements of the California
regulatory body having jurisdiction thereof.
   1.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the grantee shall be located so as not to interfere with the proper
use of the public rights-of-way, and to cause minimum interference with the
rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said
public rights-of-way, and not to materially interfere with existing public and
municipal utility installations. The grantor reserves the right to make this
determination in the event of any dispute.
   2.   Upon issuance of a written finding by the grantor that any property or
improvement of the grantor in the public rights-of-way is disturbed or damaged
by the grantee or any of its contractors, agents or employees in connection
with undertaking any and all work pursuant to the rights granted to the grantee
pursuant to this chapter and the franchise agreement, the grantee shall
promptly, at the grantee's sole cost and expense, restore as nearly as
practicable to at least their former condition and to the grantor's reasonable
satisfaction said property or improve-ment which was so disturbed or damaged.
If such property or improvement becomes uneven, unsettled or otherwise require
additional restorative work, repair or replacement because of the initial
disturbance or damage to the property by the grantee, then the grantee, as soon
as reasonably possible, shall, promptly upon receipt of written notice from the
grantor and at the grantee's sole cost and expense, restore as nearly as
practicable to at least their former condition and to the grantor's reasonable
satisfaction said property or improvement which was disturbed or damaged. Any
such restoration by the grantee shall be made in accordance with such materials
and specifications as may, from time to time, be established by the grantor.
   3.   Prior to commencing any work on the system in the public rights-of-way,
the grantee shall obtain any and all permits, licenses and authorizations
lawfully required for such work. If emergency work on the system in the public
right-of-way is required, the grantee shall with all due diligence, seek to
obtain and apply for any and all such required permits, licenses and
authorizations within seven calendar days after commencing such emergency work.
   4.   There shall be no unreasonable or unnecessary obstruction of the public
rights-of-way by the grantee in connection with any of the work provided for
herein. The grantee shall maintain any barriers, signs and warning signals
during any work performed on or about the public rights-of-way or adjacent
thereto as may be necessary to reasonably avoid injury or damage to life and
property.
   5.   If the grantor lawfully elects to alter or change the grade or location
of any public right-of-way, the grantee shall, upon reasonable notice by the
grantor, and in a timely manner (as determined by the grantor), remove, relay
and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other
fixtures at it own expense. If, however, other similarly situated users of such
public rights-of-way are compensated or reimbursed for any of the cost
associated with the removal, relay or relocation of any equipment or
facilities, grantee shall be entitled to compensation in kind.
   6.   The grantee shall not place poles, conduits or other fixtures above or
below ground where the same will interfere with any gas, electric, telephone
fixtures, water hydrants or other utility, and all such poles, conduits or
other fixtures placed in any street shall be so placed as to comply with all
ordinances of the grantor.
   7.   In accordance with applicable law, the grantee or any utility user of
the public rights-of-way may be required by the grantor to permit joint use of
its poles and/or conduit located in the public rights-of-way, by any authorized
user insofar as such joint use may be reasonably practicable and upon payment
of a reasonable rental fee for such usage. In the absence of agreement
regarding such joint use, each party shall be entitled to exercise any rights
and defenses provided by applicable law.
   8.   The grantee, on request of any person holding a moving permit issued by
the grantor, shall temporarily raise or lower its wires or fixtures to permit
the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of
wires or fixtures shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the
grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
grantee shall be given not less than ten business days prior written notice to
arrange for the temporary wire or equipment changes.
   9.   The grantee shall have the authority to trim any trees or other natural
growth overhanging the public rights-of-way so as to prevent the branches of
such trees or other natural growth from coming in contact with the grantee's
wires, cables and other equipment. The grantor may require all trimming of
trees and natural growth to be done under its supervision and direction, at the
expense of the grantee.
   10.   Grantee shall be subject to any and all requirements established by
the grantor with regard to the location, either above ground or underground, as
well as reasonable screening of grantee's facilities and equipment located in
the public rights-of-way. Such requirements may include, but not be limited to,
use of landscaping to screen pedestals and cabinets, use of camouflaging
techniques and materials, and requiring that construction be flush with the
natural grade of the surrounding area. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.270 Multiple franchises.
   A.   Subject to applicable law, in the event that more than one franchise is
awarded, the grantor reserves the right to limit the number of unused drop
cables per residence.
   B.   The grantor reserves the right to grant an encroachment permit to a
cable franchisee applicant to install conduit and/or cable in anticipation of
the granting of a franchise. Such installations shall be at the applicant's
risk, with no recourse against the grantor in the event the pending franchise
application is not granted. The grantor may require an applicant to provide a
separate trench for its conduit and/or cable, at the applicant's cost.
   C.   If the grantor authorizes or permits another cable system to operate
within the municipal limits of the city, it shall do so on conditions that such
new cable system entrant indemnify and hold harmless the initial grantee from
and against all costs and expenses incurred in strengthening poles, replacing
poles, rearranging attachments, placing underground facilities and all other
costs including those of the initial grantee, the city and utilities, incident
to inspections, make ready, and construction of an additional cable system in
the franchise area; and the initial grantee shall be designated a third party
beneficiary of such conditions as are incorporated into the authorization(s)
granted to such new entrant cable system. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article VII. Technical Standards
5.12.280 Applicable technical standards.
   A.   The grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its cable
system in a manner consistent with all applicable laws, ordinances,
construction standards, governmental requirements, FCC technical standards, and
any detailed standards set forth in its franchise agreement. In addition, the
grantee shall provide to the grantor, upon written request, a written report of
the results of the grantee's periodic proof of performance tests conducted
pursuant to FCC and franchise standards and guidelines.
   B.   Should the FCC no longer require proof of performance tests, the
grantee shall make and submit such equivalent proof of performance tests and
reports in response to a written request from the grantor. Such report shall be
submitted to the grantor within sixty days of issuance of the grantor request.
   C.   Repeated and verified failure to maintain specified technical standards
shall constitute a material breach of the franchise. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part),
2001)
5.12.290 Costs of technical assistance.
   The grantee shall pay all reasonable costs actually incurred by the grantor
for obtaining any technical assistance deemed necessary by the grantor for
independent verification of technical compliance with applicable technical
standards. The grantee shall be obligated to pay for such technical review not
more frequently than once per any thirty-six month period. (Ord. 01-01 § 3
(part), 2001)
Article VIII. Indemnification and Insurance Requirements
5.12.300 Hold harmless.
   Grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold grantor, its officers, agents and
employees harmless from any liability, claims, damages, costs or expenses, to
the extent provided in the franchise agreement. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.310 Insurance.
   A.   On or before commencement of franchise operations, the grantee shall
furnish to grantor certificates of insurance for liability, workers'
compensation and property insurance, in the coverage limits provided in the
franchise agreement, from appropriately qualified insurance companies, which
shall be "admitted" in the state of California. The certificates of insurance
shall provide that the insurance is in force and will not be canceled or
modified without thirty days prior written notice to grantor. The certificates
of insurance shall be in a form satisfactory to grantor. The grantee shall
maintain at its cost throughout the term of the franchise, the insurance
required herein and in any franchise agreement:
   B.   The policy of liability insurance shall:
   1.   Name grantor, its officers, agents and employees as additional
insureds;
   2.   Indemnify all liability for personal and bodily injury, death and
damage to property arising from activities conducted and premises used pursuant
to this chapter by providing coverage therefor, including but not limited to:
   a.   Negligent acts or omissions of grantee, and its agents, servants and
employees, committed in the conduct of cable system operations, and/or
   b.   Use of motor vehicles;
   3.   Provide a combined single limit for compre-hensive general liability
and comprehensive automobile liability insurance in the amount provided for in
the franchise agreement.
   C.   The policy of workers' compensation insurance shall comply with the
laws of the state of California.
   D.   The policy of property insurance shall provide fire insurance with
extended coverage on the cable system property used by grantee in the conduct
of cable system operations in an amount adequate to enable grantee to resume
cable system operations following the occurrence of any risk covered by this
insurance.
   The certificates of insurance shall indicate the following information:
   1.   The policy number;
   2.   The date upon which the policy will become effective and the date upon
which it will expire;
   3.   The names of the primary insureds and any additional insured required
by the franchise agreement;
   4.   The subject of the insurance;
   5.   The type of coverage provided by the insurance; and
   6.   The amount or limit of coverage provided by the insurance.
   If the certificates of insurance do not provide all of the above
information, grantor reserves the right to inspect the relevant insurance
policies.
   E.   The commencement of franchise operations shall not begin until grantee
has complied with the afore-mentioned provisions of this section.
   F.   In the event grantee fails to maintain any of the above described
policies in full force and effect, grantor shall, upon three business days
notice to grantee, have the right to procure the required insurance and recover
the cost thereof from grantee. Grantor shall also have the right to suspend the
franchise during any period that grantee fails to maintain said policies in
full force and effect. In order to account for increases in consumer prices, no
more than once during any five year period, grantor shall have the right to
order grantee to increase the amounts of the insurance provided in the
franchise agreement. Such order may be made by grantor after conducting a duly
noticed public hearing. Increases in insurance coverage shall be based upon
current prudent business practices of like enterprises involving the same or
similar risks. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article IX. Records and Reports
5.12.320 Records required.
   A.   Grantee shall at all times maintain:
   1.   A written or computer-stored record of all service calls and
interruptions or degradation of service experienced for the preceding two
years, provided that such complaints result in or require a service call,
subject to the subscriber's right of privacy;
   2.   A full and complete set of record drawings showing the locations of the
cable system installed or in use in the city, exclusive of subscriber service
drops and equipment provided in subscriber's homes.
   3.   If requested by grantor, a summary of service calls, identifying the
number, general nature and disposition of such calls, on a monthly basis. A
summary of such service calls shall be submitted to the grantor within thirty
days following any written request by grantor, in a form reasonably acceptable
to the grantor;
   4.   If requested by grantor, a complaint record which shall contain a semi-
annual (through June 30 and December 31) breakdown indicating the total number
of complaints received for the preceding reporting period, and shall indicate
the classifications of complaints as follows: construction, billing, customer
relations/service and miscellaneous;
   5.   A full and complete record of rates for cable services, such as
programming services, equipment, installations and other subscriber charges.
This information shall include, but not be limited to, rates for the basic
service tier, tiers of service beyond the basic tier, premium service, pay-per-
view services, late fees, additional outlets, converters, remote controls and
any charges for installation or service at the subscriber premises.
   B.   The grantor may impose requests for additional information, records and
documents from grantee, provided they reasonably relate to the scope of the
city's rights under this chapter or the grantee's franchise agreement.
   C.   Upon reasonable written notice, and during normal business hours,
grantee shall permit examination by any duly authorized representative of the
grantor of all:
   1.   Cable system property and facilities, together with any appurtenant
property and facilities of grantee situated within the service area; and
   2.   All records relating to the operation of the cable system, provided
they are necessary to enable the grantor to carry out its regulatory
responsibilities under this chapter or the franchise agreement. Grantee shall
have the right to be present at any such examination. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part),
2001)
5.12.330 Annual reports.
   A.   Within one hundred twenty days after the end of the calendar year,
grantee shall, upon written request made within thirty days of the close of the
calendar year, submit a written report to grantor with respect to the preceding
calendar year in a form approved by grantor, including, but not limited to, the
following information:
   1.   A summary of the previous year's (or in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year's) activities in development of the cable
system, including but not limited to, cable services begun or discontinued
during the reporting year;
   2.   A list of grantee's officers and members of its board of directors;
   3.   A list of stockholders or other equity investors holding five percent
or more of the voting interest in grantee;
   4.   An indication of any residences in grantee's service area where service
is not available, and a schedule for providing service;
   5.   Information as to:
   a.   The number of homes passed,
   b.   Total subscribers, and
   c.   The number of basic and pay subscribers,
   6.   Any other information relevant to franchise regulation which the
grantor shall reasonably request, and which is relevant to its regulatory
responsibilities.
   B.   Upon written request, grantee shall submit to grantor copies of all
pleadings, applications and reports submitted by grantee to any federal, state
or local court, regulatory agency, or other governmental body as well as copies
of all decisions issued in response to such pleadings, applications and
reports, which are non-routine in nature and which will materially affect its
cable system within the franchise area.
   C.   Information otherwise confidential by law and so designated by grantee,
which is submitted to grantor, shall be retained in confidence by grantor and
its authorized agents and shall not be made available for public inspection.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, grantee shall have no obligation to provide
copies of documents to grantor which contain trade secrets of grantee or which
are otherwise of a confidential or proprietary nature to grantee unless it
receives satisfactory assurances from grantor that such information can and
will be held in strictest confidence and protected by the grantor. To the
extent possible, grantee may provide grantor with summaries of any required
documents or copies thereof with trade secrets and proprietary matters deleted
therefrom. The burden of proof shall be on grantee to establish the
confidential nature of any information submitted, to the reasonable
satisfaction of the grantor.
   D.   If grantee or its parent is publicly held, grantee shall, upon written
grantor request, submit a copy of grantee's or grantee's parent's publicly
filed annual or quarterly financial statement within forty-five days of such a
request.
   E.   Upon grantor's written request, but no more than annually, grantee
shall submit to grantor a privacy report indicating the degree of compliance
with the provisions contained in Section
5.12.470 C, D and F herein and all steps taken to assure that the privacy
rights of individuals have been protected.
   F.   All reports required under this chapter, except those required by law
to be kept confidential, shall be available for public inspection in the
grantor's offices during normal business hours.
   G.   All reports and records required to be delivered to grantor under this
chapter shall be furnished at the sole expense of grantee, except as otherwise
provided in the franchise agreement.
   H.   The willful refusal, failure, or willful negligence of grantee to file
any of the reports required as and when due under this chapter, may be deemed a
material breach of the franchise agreement if such reports are not provided to
grantor within sixty days after written request therefor, and may subject the
grantee to all remedies, legal or equitable, which are available to grantor
under this chapter or the franchise agreement.
   I.   Any materially false or misleading statement or representation made
knowingly and willfully by the grantee in any report required under this
chapter or under the franchise agreement may be deemed a material breach of the
franchise and may subject grantee to all remedies, legal or equitable, which
are available to grantor. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.340 Opinion survey.
   Upon written request of the grantor, but not more than once every two years,
the grantee shall conduct a subscriber satisfaction survey pertaining to
quality of service, which may be transmitted to subscribers in grantee's
invoice for cable services. The results of such survey shall be provided to the
grantor on a timely basis. The cost of such survey shall be borne by the
grantee. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article X. Review of System Performance
5.12.350 Biannual review.
   A.   Every two years throughout the term of the franchise, if reasonably
requested by prior written notice from the grantor, grantor and grantee shall
meet publicly to review system performance and quality of service. The various
reports required pursuant to this chapter, results of technical performance
tests, the record of subscriber complaints and grantee's response to those
complaints, and the information acquired in any subscriber surveys, shall be
utilized as the basis for review. In addition, any subscriber may submit
comments or complaints during the review meetings, either orally or in writing,
and these shall be considered. Within thirty days after the conclusion of such
a review meeting, grantor may issue findings with respect to the cable system's
franchise compliance and quality of service.
   B.   If grantor determines that grantee is not in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter or the grantee's franchise agreement, grantor
shall provide grantee, in the form of written findings, the specific details of
each alleged noncompliance. Grantor may then direct grantee to correct the
areas of noncompliance within a reasonable period of time, but not less than
thirty days. failure of the grantee, after due notice, to:
   1.   Correct the area(s) of noncompliance within the period specified
therefor, or
   2.   Commence compliance within such period and diligently achieve
compliance thereafter; or
   3.   Demonstrate that the allegations of non-compliance are incorrect;
   Shall be considered a material breach of the franchise, and grantor may
exercise any remedy within the scope of this chapter and the franchise
agreement considered appropriate under the circumstances. (Ord. 01-01 § 3
(part), 2001)
5.12.360 Special review.
   When there have been extensive complaints made or where there exists other
demonstrative evidence which, in the reasonable judgment of the grantor, casts
reasonable doubt on the reliability or quality of cable service to the effect
that the grantee is not in compliance with the requirements of this chapter or
its franchise, the grantor shall have the right to compel the grantee to test,
analyze and report on the performance of the cable system in order to protect
the public against substandard cable service. Grantor may not compel grantee to
provide such tests or reports unless and until grantor has provided grantee
with at least thirty days prior written notice of its intention to exercise its
rights under this Section
5.12.350 and has provided grantee with an opportunity to be heard prior to its
exercise of such rights. Such test or tests shall be made and the report shall
be delivered to the grantor no later than thirty days after the grantor
notifies the grantee in writing that it is exercising such right, and shall be
made at grantee's sole cost. Such report shall include the following
information: The nature of the complaints which precipitated the special tests,
what system component was tested, the equipment used and procedures employed in
said testing, the results of such tests, and the method by which such
complaints were resolved. Any other information pertinent to the special test
shall be recorded. Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article XI. Franchise Violations
5.12.370 Remedies for violations.
   If grantee fails to perform in a timely manner any material obligation
required by this chapter or a franchise granted hereunder, following reasonable
written notice from the grantor and a reasonable opportunity to cure such
nonperformance in accordance with the provisions of Sections
5.12.370 through
5.12.400 of this chapter and the franchise, grantor may at its option and in
its sole discretion:
   A.   Cure the violation and recover the actual cost thereof from the
security fund established in the franchise agreement if such violation is not
cured within thirty days after written notice to the grantee of grantor's
intention to cure and draw upon the security fund,
   B.   Assess against grantee liquidated damages in an amount set forth in the
franchise agreement for any such violations(s) if such violation is not cured,
or if grantee has not commenced a cure, on a schedule reasonably acceptable to
grantor, within thirty days after written notice to the grantee of grantor's
intention to assess liquidated damages. Such assessment may be withdrawn from
the security fund, and shall not constitute a waiver by grantor of any other
right or remedy it may have under the franchise or applicable law, including
without limitation, its right to recover from grantee such additional damages,
losses, costs and expenses, including actual attorney's fees, as may have been
suffered or incurred by grantor by reason of or arising our of such material
breach of the franchise.
5.12.380 Procedure for remedying franchise violations.
   Prior to imposing any remedy or other sanction against grantee specified in
this chapter, grantor shall give grantee notice and opportunity to be heard on
the matter, in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Grantor shall first notify grantee of the alleged violation in writing
by personal delivery or registered or certified mail, and demand correction, or
evidence of non-violation, within a reasonable time, which shall not be less
than fifteen business days in the case of the failure of the grantee to pay any
sum or other amount due the grantor under this chapter or the grantee's
franchise and thirty business days in all other cases. If grantee fails to:
   1.   Correct the alleged violation within the time prescribed; or
   2.   Commence correction of the alleged violation within the time prescribed
and diligently remedy such alleged violation thereafter; or
   3.   Provide evidence that there is no violation,
   The grantor shall then give, by personal delivery or registered or certified
mail written notice of not less than thirty days of a public hearing to be held
before the council. Said notice shall set forth in detail each of the
violations alleged to have occurred.
   B.   Subsequent to the public hearing, the council shall hear and consider
all other relevant evidence, and thereafter render findings and its decision.
   C.   If the council finds that:
   1.   The grantee has corrected the alleged violation; or
   2.   The grantee has diligently commenced correction of such alleged
violation after notice thereof and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy
such alleged violation; or
   3.   No material violation has occurred.
   The proceedings shall terminate and no penalty or other sanction shall be
imposed.
   D.   If the council finds that material violations exist and that grantee:
   1.   Has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner; or
   2.   Has not diligently commenced correction of such violation after notice
thereof and is not diligently proceeding to fully remedy such violation.
   Then the council may impose one or more of the remedies provided in this
chapter and the franchise agreement as it, in its discretion, deems appropriate
under the circumstances.
5.12.390 Grantor's power to revoke.
   A.   Grantor may revoke any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter and
rescind all rights and privileges associated with it in the following circum-
stances, each of which shall represent a default by grantee and a material
breach under the franchise:
   1.   If grantee fails to perform any of its material obligations under this
chapter or the franchise agreement and continues such failure to perform after
receipt of due notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure;
   2.   If grantee fails to provide or maintain in full force and effect the
insurance coverage or security fund as required in the franchise agreement;
   3.   If grantee violates any order or ruling of any regulatory body having
jurisdiction over the grantee relative to the grantee's franchise, unless such
order or ruling is being contested by grantee in good faith in an appropriate
proceeding;
   4.   If grantee knowingly practices any material fraud or deceit upon
grantor;
   5.   If grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or
is adjudged a bankrupt.
   B.   After completing the procedures set forth in Section
5.12.380, the grantor may make a formal request before the council that the
grantee's franchise be revoked. The council shall cause to be served on the
grantee written notice of its intent to consider revoking grantee's franchise.
Such notice shall be served on grantee at least sixty days prior to the date of
the hearing on the issue. The notice shall contain the time and place of the
hearing and shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation within the franchise area ten days prior to the hearing date.
   C.   The council shall hear any person(s) interested in the revocation and
within ninety days after the date of the hearing shall make its determination,
based on a preponderance of the evidence, whether the grantee has committed a
material breach of the franchise.
   D.   If the grantor determines that the grantee has committed a material
breach, then the grantor may:
   1.   Declare the franchise revoked and any security fund and bonds
forfeited; or
   2.   If the material breach is curable by the grantee, direct the grantee to
take appropriate remedial action within the time and manner and under the terms
and conditions reasonably specified by the grantor.
   The termination and forfeiture of the grantee's franchise shall in no way
affect any right of grantor to pursue any remedy under the franchise or any
provision of law.
5.12.400 Appeal of finding of revocation.
   The grantee may appeal a finding of revocation made pursuant to Section
5.12.390 to an appropriate court of jurisdiction, which shall have the power to
review "de novo." Any such appeal must be initiated by the grantee within sixty
days of the issuance of the grantor's decision to revoke the franchise.
5.12.402 Force majeure--Grantee's inability to perform.
   In the event grantee's performance of any of the terms, conditions or
obligations required by this chapter or a franchise granted hereunder is
prevented by a cause or event not within grantee's control, such inability to
perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed
as a result thereof; provided, however, that such inability to perform shall
not relieve a grantee from the obligations imposed by Section
5.12.190 C, pertaining to refunds and credits for interruptions in service. For
the purpose of this section, causes or events not within the control of grantee
shall include without limitation acts of God, war, strikes, sabotage, riots or
civil disturbances, labor disputes, restraints imposed by order of a
governmental agency or court, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural
disasters such as floods, earthquakes, landslides, and fires, but shall not
include financial inability of the grantee to perform or failure of the grantee
to obtain any necessary permits or licenses from other governmental agencies or
the right to use the facilities of any public utility where such failure is due
solely to the acts or omissions of grantee, or the failure of the grantee to
secure supplies, services or equipment necessary for the installation,
operation, maintenance or repair of the cable system where the grantee has
failed to exercise reasonable diligence to secure such supplies, services or
equipment. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article XII. Abandonment or Removal of Franchise Property
5.12.410 Abandonment or removal.
   A.   If the grantee discontinues the use of any of its property within the
public rights-of-way for a continuous period of twelve months, such property
shall be deemed to have been abandoned by grantee. Any part of the cable system
that is parallel or redundant to other parts of the system and is intended for
use only when needed as a backup for the system or a part thereof, shall not be
deemed to have been abandoned because of its lack of use. The grantee shall
inform the grantor of the specific locations of such parallel or redundant
equipment.
   B.   Grantor, upon such reasonable terms as grantor may lawfully impose, may
give grantee permission to abandon, without removing, any system facility or
equipment laid, directly constructed, operated or maintained under the
franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, the grantee shall remove all abandoned above-ground facilities
and equipment upon receipt of written notice from grantor and shall restore to
grantor's reasonable satisfaction any affected public right-of-way to at least
its former state at the time such facilities and equipment were installed. In
removing its plant, structures and equipment, grantee shall refill, at its own
expense, any excavation that shall be made by it and shall leave all public
rights-of-way in as good condition as that prevailing prior to such removal
without materially interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other
utility wires, poles, or attachments. Grantor shall have the right to inspect
and approve the condition of the public rights-of-way, cables, wires,
attachments and poles prior to and after removal. The liability, indemnity and
insurance provisions of this chapter and the security fund as provided herein
shall continue in full force and effect during the period of removal and until
full compliance by grantee with the terms and conditions of this Section
5.12.410.
   C.   Upon the approved abandonment of any cable system property, the
grantee, if required by the grantor, shall submit to the grantor an instrument,
satisfactory in form to the grantor, transferring to the grantor the ownership
of the abandoned cable system property.
   D.   At the expiration, without renewal or extension, of the term for which
the franchise is granted, or upon its revocation, as provided herein, the
grantor shall have the right to require grantee to remove, at its own expense,
all above-ground portions of the cable system from all streets and public ways
within the service area within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be
less than one hundred eighty days, nor more than three hundred sixty five days
from the date of grantor's written notification to grantee regarding such
removal.
   E.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this chapter, the
grantee, with the written approval of the grantor, may abandon any underground
cable system property in place so long as it does not materially interfere with
the use of the public rights-of-way in which such property is located or with
the use thereof by any public utility or other franchise holder. (Ord. 01-01 §
3 (part), 2001)
5.12.420 Restoration by grantor--Reimbursement of costs.
   Upon reasonable written notice and upon the failure of the grantee to
commence, pursue or complete any work to be done in any public right-of-way
required by law or by the provisions of this chapter or the franchise
agreement, within the time prescribed and to the reasonable satisfaction of the
grantor, the grantor may cause the work to be commenced and/or completed. The
grantor shall provide to the grantee an itemized work order setting forth in
detail the exact nature of the work completed and the supplies used in such
work. The grantee shall pay to the grantor the reasonable costs for such work
no later than thirty days after receipt of the itemized work order. (Ord. 01-01
§ 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.430 Extended operation and continuity of services.
   Upon expiration or revocation of the franchise, the grantor shall have the
discretion to permit grantee to continue to operate the cable system for an
extended period of time. Grantee shall continue to operate the system under the
terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise and to provide the
regular subscriber service and any and all of the cable services that may be
provided at that time. It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue to
receive all available cable services provided that financial and other
obligations to grantee are honored. The grantee shall use reasonable efforts to
provide continuous, uninterrupted service to its subscribers, including
operation of the system during transition periods following franchise
expiration or termination.
5.12.440 Receivership and foreclosure.
   A.   At the option of the grantor and subject to applicable law, a franchise
granted hereunder may be revoked one hundred twenty days after appointment of a
receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the business of grantee, whether
in a receivership, reorganization, bank-ruptcy or other action or proceeding,
unless:
   1.   The receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated within said one
hundred twenty days; or
   2.   Such receivers or trustees within said one hundred twenty days shall
have remedied all the defaults under the franchise or provided a plan for the
remedy of such defaults which is satisfactory to the grantor; or
   3.   Such receivers or trustees shall, within said one hundred twenty days,
have executed an agreement duly approved by the court having jurisdiction
whereby such receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by each and
every term, provision and limitation of the franchise.
   B.   In the case of a foreclosure or other judicial sale of the cable
system, in whole or in part, the grantor may serve notice of revocation upon
grantee and the successful bidder at such sale, and all rights and privileges
of the grantee hereunder shall be revoked thirty days after service of such
notice, unless:
   1.   A transfer request has been submitted by grantee for grantor review; or
   2.   Grantor shall have approved the transfer of the franchise, in the
manner provided by law; and
   3.   The successful bidder shall have covenanted and agreed with Grantor to
assume and be bound by all terms and conditions of the franchise. (Ord. 01-01 §
3 (part), 2001)
Article XIII. Grantor and Subscriber Rights
5.12.450 Reservation of grantor rights.
   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by this
chapter, the grantor reserves to itself every right and power which is required
to be reserved by a provision of any ordinance or under the franchise. (Ord.
01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.460 Waiver.
   A.   The grantor shall have the right to waive any provision of the
franchise, except those required by federal or state regulation, if the grantor
determines: (1) that it is in the public interest to do so, (2) and that the
enforcement of such provision will impose an undue hardship on the grantee or
on the subscribers. To be effective, such waiver shall be evidenced by a
statement in writing signed by a duly authorized representative of the grantor.
Waiver of any provision in one instance shall not be deemed a waiver of such
provision subsequent to such instance nor be deemed a waiver of any other
provision of the franchise unless the statement so recites.
   B.   The grantee shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter or the franchise agreement by any failure of the
grantor on any one or more occasions to require or seek compliance with any
such terms or conditions. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
5.12.470 Rights of individuals.
   A.   Grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate
against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, age or sex. Grantee shall comply at an times
with all other applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to nondiscrimination.
   B.   Grantee shall adhere to the applicable equal employment opportunity
requirements of federal, state and local regulations, as now written or as
amended from time to time.
   C.   Unless directed or conducted by an authorized law enforcement agency,
which has obtained all necessary permits, neither grantee, nor any person, or
entity shall, without the subscriber's consent, tap, or arrange for the
tapping, of any cable, line, signal input device, or subscriber outlet or
receiver for any purpose except routine maintenance of the system, detection of
unauthorized service, polling with audience participation, or audience viewing
surveys to support advertising research regarding viewers where individual
viewing behavior cannot be identified.
   D.   In the conduct of providing its cable services or in pursuit of any
collateral commercial enterprise resulting therefrom, grantee shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a subscriber's or general citizen's
right of privacy or other personal rights through the use of the system as such
rights are delineated or defined by applicable law. The grantee shall not
without lawful court order or other applicable valid legal authority utilize
the system's interactive two-way equipment or capability, if such equipment or
capability exists, for unauthorized personal surveillance of any subscriber or
general citizen.
   E.   No cable line, wire amplifier, converter, or other piece of equipment
owned by grantee shall be installed by grantee in the subscriber's premises,
other than in appropriate easements, without first securing any required
consent. If a subscriber requests service, permission to install upon
subscriber's property shall be deemed granted.
   F.   The grantee, or any of its agents or employees, shall not sell, or
otherwise make available to any party without consent of the subscriber
pursuant to state and federal privacy laws:
   1.   Any list of the names and addresses of subscribers containing the names
and addresses of subscribers who request in writing to be removed from such
list; and
   2.   Any list which identifies the viewing habits of individual subscribers,
without the prior written consent of such subscribers. This does not prohibit
the grantee from providing composite ratings of subscriber viewing to any
party. (Ord. 01-01 § 3 (part), 2001)
Article XIV. State Video Franchises
5.12.500 Special provisions applicable to holders of state video franchises.
   A.   Franchise fees. A state video franchise holder operating in the city
shall pay to the city a franchise fee that is equal to five percent of the
gross revenues of that state video franchise holder. The term "gross revenues"
shall be defined as set forth in Public Utilities Code Section 5860. Each state
video franchise holder shall remit the franchise fee to the city quarterly,
within forty-five days after the end of the quarter for that calendar quarter.
Each payment shall be accompanied by a summary explaining the basis for the
calculation of the franchise fee. If the state video franchise holder does not
pay the franchise fee when due, the state video franchise holder shall pay a
late payment charge at a rate per year equal to the highest prime lending rate
during the period of delinquency, plus one percent. If the state video
franchise holder has overpaid the franchise fee, it may deduct the overpayment
from its next quarterly payment.
   B.   Audit authority. Not more than once annually, the city may examine and
perform an audit of the business records of a holder of a state video franchise
to the extent reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with all applicable
statutes and regulations related to the computation and payment of franchise
fees. A state video franchise holder shall keep all business records reflecting
any gross revenues, even if there is a change in ownership, for at least four
years after those revenues are recognized by the state video franchise holder
on its books and records. If the examination discloses that the state video
franchise holder has underpaid franchise fees by more than five percent during
the examination period, the state video franchise holder shall pay all of the
reasonable and actual costs of the examination in addition to the underpaid
franchise fees and interest imposed under subsection A. above. If the
examination discloses that the state video franchise holder has not underpaid
franchise fees, the city shall pay all of the reasonable and actual costs of
the examination. In every other instance, each party shall bear its own costs
of the examination.
   C.   Customer service penalties under state video franchises.
   1.   The holder of a state video franchise shall comply with all applicable
state and federal customer service and protection standards pertaining to the
provision of video service.
   2.   The city shall monitor the compliance of state video franchise holders
with respect to state and federal customer service and protection standards.
The city will provide to the state video franchise holder written notice of any
material breaches of applicable customer service and protection standards, and
will allow the state video franchise holder thirty days from receipt of the
notice to remedy the specified material breach. A material breach for the
purposes of assessing penalties shall be deemed to have occurred for each day
within the city, following the expiration of the thirty-day time period
specified herein, that any material breach has not been remedied by the video
service provider, irrespective of the number of customers or subscribers
affected. Material breaches not remedied within the thirty-day time period will
be subject to the following monetary penalties to be imposed by the city in
accordance with state law:
      a.   For the first occurrence of a violation, a monetary penalty of five
hundred dollars shall be imposed for each day the violation remains in effect,
not to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars for each occurrence of a
material breach of applicable customer service and protection standards.
      b.   For a second violation of the same nature within twelve months, a
monetary penalty of one thousand dollars shall be imposed for each day the
violation remains in effect, not to exceed three thousand dollars for each
occurrence of a material breach of applicable customer service and protection
standards.
      c.   For a third or further violation of the same nature within twelve
months, a monetary penalty of two thousand five hundred dollars shall be
imposed for each day the violation remains in effect, not to exceed seven
thousand five hundred dollars for each occurrence of a material breach of
applicable customer service and protection standards.
   3.   A state video franchise holder may appeal a monetary penalty assessed
by the city within sixty days. After relevant evidence and testimony is
received, and staff reports are submitted, the city council will vote to either
uphold or vacate the monetary penalty. Except as otherwise provided in Public
Utilities Code Section 5900, the city council's decision on the imposition of a
monetary penalty shall be final.
   D.   City response to state video franchise applications.
   1.   Applicants for state video franchises within the boundaries of the city
must concurrently provide to the city complete copies of any application or
amendments to applications filed with the California Public Utilities
Commission. One complete copy must be provided to the city clerk.
   2.   The city will provide any appropriate comments to the California Public
Utilities Commission regarding an application or an amendment to an application
for a state video franchise.
   E.   PEG channel capacity. A state video franchise holder that uses the
public rights-of-way shall designate sufficient capacity on its network to
enable the carriage of at least three public, educational, or governmental
(PEG) access channels.
   1.   PEG access channels shall be for the exclusive use of the city or its
designees to provide public, educational, or governmental programming.
   2.   The PEG access channels shall be used only for noncommercial purposes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, advertising, underwriting, or
sponsorship recognition may be carried on the PEG access channels for the
purpose of funding PEG-related activities.
   3.   The PEG access channels shall be carried on the basic service tier. The
PEG signal shall be receivable by all subscribers, whether they receive digital
or analog service, or a combination thereof, without the need for any equipment
other than the equipment necessary to receive the lowest cost tier of service.
The PEG access capacity provided shall be of similar quality and functionality
to that offered by commercial channels on the lowest cost tier of service
unless the signal is provided to the state cable franchise holder at a lower
quality or with less functionality.
   4.   To the extent feasible, the PEG access channels shall not be separated
numerically from other channels carried on the basic service tier, and the
channel numbers for the PEG access channels shall be the same channel numbers
used by the incumbent cable operator unless prohibited by federal law.
   5.   After the initial designation of PEG access channel numbers, the
channel numbers shall not be changed without the prior written consent of the
city, unless the change is required by federal law.
   6.   Each PEG access channel shall be capable of carrying a National
Television System Committee (NTSC) television signal.
   F.   PEG support fee and payments. In accordance with Public Utilities Code
Section 5870(n), state video franchise holders shall pay to city a PEG support
fee in the amount of one percent of gross revenues. State franchise holders
shall remit PEG support fees in the same manner as franchise fees as set forth
in subsection A. above. The PEG support fee may be shown as a separate line
item on the regular bill of each subscriber.
   G.   Emergency alert system and emergency overrides. A state video franchise
holder must comply with the emergency alert system requirements of the Federal
Communications Commission in order that emergency messages may be distributed
over the holder's network.
   H.   Interconnection. Where technically feasible, a state video franchise
holder and incumbent cable operator shall negotiate in good faith to
interconnect their networks for the purpose of providing PEG access channel
programming. Interconnection may be accomplished by direct cable, microwave
link, satellite, or other reasonable method of connection. State video
franchise holders and incumbent cable operators shall provide interconnection
of the PEG access channels on reasonable terms and conditions and may not
withhold the interconnection. If a state video franchise holder and an
incumbent cable operator cannot reach a mutually acceptable interconnection
agreement, the city may require the incumbent cable operator to allow the state
video franchise holder to interconnect its network with the incumbent's network
at a technically feasible point on the state video franchise holder's network
as identified by the state video franchise holder. If no technically feasible
point for interconnection is available, the state video franchise holder shall
make an interconnection available to the channel originator and shall provide
the facilities necessary for the interconnection. The cost of any
interconnection shall be borne by the state video franchise holder requesting
the interconnection unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
   I.   The city's interpretation of Section 5870(n) of the Public Utilities
Code is that the one percent fee to support PEG channel facilities authorized
by that code section does not expire upon the expiration of any particular
state franchise holder. However, to the extent any court or reviewing authority
finds otherwise, the city hereby reauthorizes the fee set forth in this section
on state-franchised video service providers operating within the city, to
support public, educational, and governmental access channel facilities, which
fee shall remain unchanged and in full effect as to all state-franchised video
service providers operating within the city. The city hereby reauthorizes the
fee on any additional state franchised video service providers that are or will
be operating in the City of Pismo Beach to support public, educational, and
governmental access channel facilities, upon the expiration of that state
franchise, which fee shall remain unchanged and in full effect. Notwithstanding
Public Utilities Code Section 5870(n), upon the expiration of any state video
franchise, without any further action of the city council, this section shall
be deemed to have been automatically reauthorized, unless the state franchise
holder has given the city manager and the city council written notice ninety
days prior to the expiration of its state franchise that the state franchise
holder believes the section will expire concurrently with the expiration of its
state franchise pursuant to the terms of Public Utilities Code Section 5870(n).
(Ord. O-2017-006 § 1, 2017: Ord. O-2014-001 § 1, 2014)
Chapter 5.16 CARD GAMES AND TABLES
5.16.010 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter:
   "Controlled game" shall have the same meaning as in Section 337j of the
California Penal Code, as amended from time to time.
   "Card room" means any building or structure, or any portion of a building or
structure or any premises or place, wherein controlled games are conducted. The
term "card room" is synonymous with the term "gambling establishment" as used
in the Gambling Control Act (commencing at Section 19800 of the California
Business and Professions Code). (Ord. O-2025-002 § 19 (part), 2025)
5.16.020 Prohibition.
   Controlled games and card rooms are prohibited throughout the city. (Ord. O-
2025-002 § 19 (part), 2025)
Chapter 5.20 MOBILEHOME PARK RENT CONTROL REGULATIONS
5.20.010 Findings and declaration of purpose.
   A.   In November 1982, the city council adopted Ordinance No. 305, a
"mobilehome rent stabilization ordinance ...*providing a formula for maximum
annual rent increases and providing a procedure for hardship exceptions," the
provisions of which were set forth in former Sections
5.20.010 through
5.20.060 of this code. In November 1982, all of the mobilehome parks in the
city were owned by private parties who operated their parks as a for-profit
business and who did not reside in the parks.
   B.   The findings and declaration of purpose set forth in Ordinance No. 305
referred to the following conditions: the shortage of mobilehome spaces in the
city and surrounding areas and the corresponding low vacancy rate in mobilehome
parks, the high cost and impracticality of individual homeowners moving their
mobilehomes from one park to another, the substantial investment of mobilehome
owners in their homes, and the large numbers of residents in the mobilehome
parks who were senior citizens and others on fixed incomes for whom there was a
lack of suitable alternative housing. In view of these factors, the city
council found and declared in Ordinance No. 305 that it was "necessary to take
action to protect the owners and occupiers of mobilehomes from unreasonable
rent increases, while at the same time recognizing the need of mobilehome park
owners to make a suitable profit on the operation of mobilehome parks in Pismo
Beach, with rental increases sufficient to cover increased operating costs such
as repairs, maintenance, insurance, utilities, general upkeep*...*and to
receive a fair return on the owner's property."
   C.   In the middle 1980s, the ownership of each of the mobilehome parks in
the city changed hands. At the time, Ordinance No. 305 had been in effect for
several years and regulated the rents in all or substantially all of the
mobilehome spaces in the parks.
   D.   One of the parks was purchased by a corporation whose shareholders
were/are mobilehome owners in and residents of that park (the "resident-owned
park"). While a majority of the spaces in the resident-owned park are occupied
by shareholders of the corporation which owns the park and such resident owners
do not pay rent, a significant number of spaces in the resident-owned park
remain as rental spaces. The rental spaces in the resident-owned park were and
remain subject to mobilehome rent stabilization.
   E.   Increasingly, the owners of mobilehome parks in the city, including the
resident-owned park, sought rent increases in excess of the automatic "seventy-
five percent of CPI" increase allowed by the formula in Ordinance No. 305,
pursuant to the "hardship exception" in Ordinance No. 305. The basis for a
hardship exception rent increase under Ordinance No. 305 was a showing that the
park owner was "unable to make a reasonable profit and return on the property
involved."
   F.   In support of the requested hardship exception rent increases, the park
owners have asserted various different rationales and arguments. Such requested
hardship exception rent increases were vigorously opposed by park tenants, and
the rent hearings before the city council were very controversial and
adversarial.
   G.   Following hearings on requested hardship exception rent increases in
fall 1991, and pursuant to Section
5.20.050 of this code, a subcommittee of the city council was formed and
studied the substance and procedures of the Ordinance No. 305 in detail,
conducted a number of meetings with the park owners and their representatives
and with the representatives of mobilehome owners, presented several reports
with supporting materials to the city council and made a variety of
recommendations to the city council. The city council conducted three public
hearings in review of the subcommittee's reports and recommendations, and
received extensive public comment.
   H.   The city council finds and declares:
   1.   The original conditions which prompted adoption of Ordinance No. 305
(set forth in subsection B of this section) have not disappeared and there is a
continuing need to regulate mobilehome park rents in response to each of such
conditions. While the regulation of mobilehome
park rents is necessary to protect mobilehome owners from unreasonable rent
increases, park owners need to receive rent increases which are sufficient to
cover increased operating costs and the costs of capital repairs and to provide
a fair profit and return on the owner's property.
   2.   It is in the public interest to retain the concept of limiting the
automatic annual rent increase to a seventy-five percent of CPI increase, but
to define more specifically how increases in base rent in excess of seventy-
five percent of the CPI should be calculated and how capital expenses of the
park should be treated in relation to such rent calculations.
   3.   The prior conduct of the park owners provides a ready basis for
determining what is a fair profit and return for each of the mobilehome parks
in the city. The park owners presumably knew the income and expenses of their
parks at the time they purchased them and believed that the rent-controlled
income of the park at that time less its operating expenses at that time would
yield a fair operating profit and return. If the mobilehome park's operating
income is maintained at approximately the level of operating income at the time
the park owners purchased their parks in the mid-1980s, with adjustments for
inflation, then the park owners will be receiving a fair profit and return.
Therefore, increases in base rent in excess of seventy-five percent of CPI
should be permitted if such increases are necessary to maintain the mobilehome
park's net operating income adjusted for inflation and thereby provide a fair
profit and return to the park owner.
   4.   The basic concept of defining a minimum fair profit and return by
maintaining net operating income of a mobilehome park has been reviewed and
upheld in the courts and adopted into rent stabilization ordinances in other
jurisdictions. However, the concept was not proposed by park owners in their
recent hardship exception rent increase applications.
   5.   As a practical matter, it is necessary to define and implement the
maintenance of net operating income concept on per space basis in the
mobilehome parks in the city because the resident-owned park includes both
rental and nonrental spaces and the number of rental spaces in such park has
been decreasing over the years (as purchasers of mobilehomes in former rental
spaces have also purchased shares in the resident-owned corporation).
   6.   As parks age, large capital expenses become increasingly necessary and
inevitable. Expressly providing for rent increases to reimburse park owners for
capital expenses is intended to assure that, over the long run, the condition
of the park is maintained and kept up for the benefit of its residents. There
are two purposes in calculating rent increases for capital expenses separately
from maintenance of net operating income increases in base rent:
   a.   To assure homeowners that rent increases for capital expenses (one-time
expenditures which are subject to wide fluctuation from year to year) will be
charged to homeowners only for so long as necessary to reimburse such expenses,
that capital expenses will not result in permanent increases in base rent, and
that capital expense rent increases are not subject to being "compounded" by
automatic annual seventy-five percent of CPI increases; and
   b.   To assure park owners that capital expenses will be reimbursed fully
and do not reduce net operating income of the park below the amount necessary
to provide a fair return.
   7.   It is in the public interest to alter the procedures governing rent
increases in excess of seventy-five percent of CPI increases, which now provide
for a hearing before the city council at city expense on every proposed rent
increase in excess of seventy-five percent of the CPI. Such modified procedures
should include (a) provisions for recovery of the city's cost of rent hearings,
which in ordinary circumstances should be paid in equal shares by the tenants
as a group and by the park owner, (b) better-defined requirements for financial
reporting and information from park owners, (c) procedures requiring that park
owners and tenant representatives meet and confer regarding rent increases in
excess of seventy-five percent of the CPI, including the disclosure of the
financial information used to calculate the rent increase, with incentives to
negotiate an agreed rent increase and avoid the expense and divisiveness of an
adversarial rent hearing, (d) procedures requiring that a petition for a rent
hearing be signed by a homeowner majority before a rent hearing is held, and
(e) procedures for selection of an independent hearing officer to conduct and
decide rent hearings without the matter coming before the city council. (Ord.
92-17 § 1, 1992: prior code § 9.60.010)
5.20.015 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   "Base rent" means the amount of monthly rent which is subject to annual CPI
rent increases and operating costs increases. "Base rent" does not include rent
increases for capital expenses or capital improvements.
   "Capital expense" means a repair or replacement of existing facilities or
improvements which has an expected life of more than one year, in excess of
five thousand dollars. Examples of a capital expense are resurfacing of
existing park roadways, replacement of the roof of an existing clubhouse, and
replacement of existing utility transmission lines and/or underground pipe
systems within the park. (An expenditure which would otherwise be characterized
as a capital expense but which is less than five thousand dollars per year
shall be treated as a maintenance expense, rather than as a capital expense.)
   "Homeowner" means the owner of a mobilehome and tenant of a mobilehome space
in a mobilehome park, responsible for paying rent to management.
   "Homeowner majority" means the number equal to at least fifty percent of the
number of mobilehome spaces in the park which are entitled to cast a vote at
the time of voting, plus one space. On voting matters such as petitioning for
rent arbitration or approving a capital improvement, each space in a mobilehome
park shall be entitled to cast one vote; if there is more than one homeowner
for a space, then any of the homeowners may cast the vote for the space. If a
homeowner requests that management not provide to homeowner representatives
such homeowner's name or mailing address, then such space shall be excluded
from the number of spaces in the park for purposes of calculating a homeowner
majority.
   "Management" means the owner of a mobilehome park or agent or representative
authorized to act on behalf of the owner in connection with matters relating to
a tenancy in the park.
   "Meet and confer session" means an informal meeting between authorized
representatives of management and homeowners of the same park for the purpose
of discussing a proposed increase in rent and the basis for it.
   "Mobilehome," for purposes of this chapter, means and includes a structure
designed for human habitation and for being moved on the street or highway.
   "Mobilehome park" means an area of land where two or more sites used to
accommodate mobilehomes are rented, or held out for rent, for greater than
thirty consecutive days.
   "New construction" means any newly constructed spaces initially held out for
rent after January 1, 1990.
   "Once a year" means once every twelve months.
   "Park" means the mobilehome park.
   "Rent" means any consideration demanded or received in connection with the
use or occupancy of any mobilehome space, but exclusive of any amounts paid for
the use of the mobilehome dwelling unit itself. Rent includes base rent,
capital expense charges (if any) and capital improvement charges (if any).
"Rent" does not include charges for the use of coin-operated washers and dryers
in park laundry facilities, or charges for storage facilities off the
mobilehome site.
   "Rules" refers to the rules for mobilehome park rent hearings, adopted by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 03-02 § 1, 2003; Ord. 02-04 §§ 1, 2,
2002; Ord. 92-17 § 1, 1992)
5.20.020 Applicability of chapter.
   A.   The rent control provisions of this chapter shall apply to any
mobilehome park where two or more mobilehome sites are rented or held out for
rent, subject to the following exemptions set forth in subsection C below.
   B.   For purposes of enforcement of the rent control provisions under this
chapter, the application of this chapter to mobilehome parks, as defined
herein, but not meeting the definition of mobilehome park under the Mobilehome
Residency Law (Civil Code § 798.4), is intended to be and is prospective from
November 1, 2002.
   C.   Exemptions.
   1.   Lease in Excess of Twelve Months.
   a.   i.   Rental agreements meeting the criteria of subdivision b shall be
exempt from the rent control provisions of this chapter. The terms of a rental
agreement meeting the criteria of subdivision b shall be exempted from coverage
under this chapter restricting rents in mobilehome parks, only during the term
of the rental agreement or one or more uninterrupted, continuous extensions
thereof. If the rental agreement is not extended and no new rental agreement in
excess of twelve months' duration is entered into, then the last rental rate
charged for the space under the previous rental agreement shall be the base
rent for purposes of rent control calculations.
   ii.   In the first sentence of the first paragraph of a rental agreement
entered into on or after January 1, 1993, pursuant to this section, there shall
be set forth a provision in at least twelve-point boldface type if the rental
agreement is printed, or in capital letters if the rental agreement is typed,
giving notice to the occupant that the rental agreement will be exempt from
local rent control provisions.
   b.   Rental agreements subject to this section shall meet all of the
following criteria:
   i.   The rental agreement shall be in excess of twelve months' duration.
   ii.   The rental agreement shall be entered into between the management and
an occupant for the personal and actual residence of the occupant.
   iii.   The occupant shall have at least thirty days from the date the rental
agreement is first offered to the occupant to accept or reject the rental
agreement.
   iv.   The occupant who executes a rental agreement offered pursuant to this
section may void the rental agreement by notifying management in writing within
seventy-two hours of the occupant's execution of the rental agreement.
   c.   If, pursuant to paragraph iii or iv of subdivision b, the occupant
rejects the offered rental agreement or rescinds a signed rental agreement, the
occupant shall be entitled to instead accept a rental agreement for a term of
twelve months or less from the date the offered rental agreement was to have
begun. In the event the occupant elects to have a rental agreement for a term
of twelve months or less, including a month-to-month rental agreement, the
rental agreement shall contain the same rental charges, terms and conditions as
the rental agreement offered pursuant to subdivision b, during the first twelve
months, except for options, if any, contained in the offered rental agreement
to extend or renew the rental agreement.
   d.   Nothing in subdivision c shall be construed to prohibit the management
from offering gifts of value, other than rental rate reductions, to occupants
who execute a rental agreement pursuant to this section.
   e.   With respect to any space in a mobilehome park that is exempt under
subdivision a from the rent control provisions of this chapter a mobilehome
park shall not be assessed any fee or other exaction for a park space that is
exempt under subdivision a for the purpose of defraying the cost of
administration thereof.
   f.   At the time the rental agreement is first offered to the occupant, the
management shall provide written notice to the occupant of the occupant's right
(1) to have at least thirty days to inspect the rental agreement, and (2) to
void the rental agreement by notifying management in writing within seventy-two
hours of the acceptance of a rental agreement. The failure of the management to
provide the written notice shall make the rental agreement voidable at the
occupant's option upon the occupant's discovery of the failure. The receipt of
any written notice provided pursuant to this subdivision shall be acknowledged
in writing by the occupant.
   g.   No rental agreement subject to subdivision a that is first entered into
on or after January 1, 1993, shall have a provision which authorizes automatic
extension or renewal of, or automatically extends or renews, the rental
agreement for a period beyond the initial stated term at the sole option of
either the management or the occupant.
   h.   This section does not apply to or supersede other provisions of this
chapter or state law.
   2.   Space Not Used as Principal Residence.
   a.   Notwithstanding any other section in this chapter, if a mobilehome
space within a mobilehome park is not the principal residence of the occupant
and the occupant has not rented the mobilehome to another party, it shall be
exempt from the rent control provisions of this chapter.
   b.   Nothing in this section is intended to require any occupant to disclose
information concerning his or her personal finances. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to authorize management to gain access to any records which
would otherwise be confidential or privileged.
   c.   For purposes of this section, a mobilehome shall be deemed to be the
principal residence of the occupant, unless the requirements of Civil Code
Section 798.21(c) are satisfied.
   d.   Before modifying the rent or other terms of tenancy as a result of a
review of state or county records, as described in subdivision c, the
management shall notify the occupant, in writing, of the proposed changes and
provide the occupant with a copy of the documents upon which management relied.
   e.   The occupant shall have ninety days from the date the notice described
in subdivision d is mailed to review and respond to the notice. Management
shall not modify the rent or other terms of tenancy prior to the expiration of
the ninety-day period or prior to responding, in writing, to information
provided by the occupant. Management shall not modify the rent or other terms
of tenancy if the occupant provides documentation reasonably establishing that
the information provided by management is incorrect or that the occupant is not
the same person identified in the documents. However, nothing in this
subdivision shall be construed to authorize the occupant to change the owner's
exemption status of the other property or mobilehome owned by the occupant.
   f.   This section shall not apply under any of the following conditions:
   i.   The owner or occupant is unable to rent or lease the mobilehome because
the owner or management of the mobilehome park in which the mobilehome is
located does not permit, or the rental agreement limits or prohibits, the
assignment of the mobilehome or the subletting of the park space.
   ii.   The mobilehome is being actively held available for sale by the
occupant, or pursuant to a listing agreement with a real estate broker licensed
pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 10130) of Part 1 of Division 4
of the Business and Professions Code, or a mobilehome dealer, as defined in
Section 18002.6 of the Health and Safety Code.
   iii.   The legal owner has taken possession or ownership, or both, of the
mobilehome from a registered owner through either a surrender of ownership
interest by the registered owner or a foreclosure proceeding.
   3.   New Construction. Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter,
"new construction" as defined herein, shall be exempt from the rent control
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 03-02 § 2, 2003: Ord. 99-03 § 1, 1999: prior
code § 9.60.020)
5.20.030 Limitations on rent increases.
   A.   Increases in Base Rents.
   1.   Provided that the notice of increase required by law is given, once a
year management may increase the base rent, either by a seventy-five percent of
CPI rent increase (pursuant to Section
5.20.031 A) or by an amount necessary to maintain net operating income of the
park, adjusted for inflation (pursuant to Section
5.20.031 C).
   2.   On transfer of the mobilehome in place, management may increase the
base rent for the successor occupant as provided in Section
5.20.070.
   3.   When a mobilehome space reverts to management control through lawful
means, for example, by voluntary action taken by the occupant (i.e., the
occupant voluntarily terminates his or her right to occupy the space regardless
of whether the mobilehome is removed from the space) or when a tenancy is
terminated as allowed by law, or when there has been an abandonment, management
may negotiate a new base rent for the reverted space notwithstanding the
maximum rent allowed under this chapter. The new base rent shall thereafter be
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Rent Increases for Capital Expenses and/or Capital Improvements. Rents
shall not include any charges for capital expenses and/or capital improvements,
except pursuant to Sections
5.20.031 D and E. (Ord. 03-02 §§ 3, 4, 2003; Ord. 92-17 § 3, 1992: prior code §
9.60.030)
5.20.031 Annual rent increases.
   A.   Seventy-Five Percent of CPI Increase. Once a year, management may
notice a "seventy-five percent of CPI increase," to be calculated as the
product of (a) base rent then in effect, multiplied by (b) seventy-five percent
of the increase in the most recently published Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers, All Items, in the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim area ("CPI"),
over the CPI one year earlier. If the Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, should discontinue use of such CPI, then the city clerk shall
specify and management shall use the most similar index available.
   B.   Rent Increases in Excess of Seventy-Five Percent of CPI. The park owner
may notice and receive an annual increase in rent in excess of seventy-five
percent of CPI only if such increase in rent is calculated in compliance with
Section
5.20.031 C (increases in base rent to maintain net operating income), Section
5.20.031 D (rent increases for capital expense charges) and Section
5.20.031 E (rent increases for capital improvement charges).
   C.   Increases in Base Rent to Maintain Net Operating Income. Management
shall be entitled to an increase in base rent to the extent necessary to
provide management with the same net operating income per rental space as
management received in the base year, after adjusting base year net operating
income for inflation. Such maintenance of net operating income increase in base
rent shall be calculated as set forth below.
   1.   "Base year" means the last fiscal or calendar year in which the park
was owned by the predecessor owner to the park owner on July 1, 1992. If
financial information for such year is unavailable or incomplete, then "base
year" means the first fiscal or calendar year in which the park was owned by
the park owner on July 1, 1992.
   2.   "Prior year" means the calendar or fiscal year which ended prior to the
notice of rent increase. The last month of the base year for a park shall be
the same month of the year as the last month of the prior year. For example, if
the base year was January 1 through December 31, 1986, then, for purposes of
maintenance of net operating income calculations for a rent increase noticed in
spring 1994 to become effective on July 1, 1994, the prior year would be
January 1 through December 31, 1993.
   3.   "Operating income per space per month" means the sum of management's
annual gross receipts from base rent, submetered utilities, coin-operated
laundry facilities and storage charges (e.g., for recreational vehicles),
divided by the number of rental spaces in the park, divided by twelve months.
   4.   "Operating costs per space per month" means management's annual
ordinary and necessary operating expenses, divided by the total number of
spaces in the park (which may be equal to or more than the number of rental
spaces), divided by twelve months.
   a.   "Management's ordinary and necessary operating expenses" means the sum
of insurance premiums for the park, maintenance and repair costs (other than
capital expenses), supplies, property taxes and assessments, licenses and fees
in connection with operating the park, resident manager and other on-site
employee expenses, the cost of obtaining an annual review by a licensed public
accountant or certified public accountant of park income and expenses for
purposes of maintaining financial data pursuant to this chapter, all utility-
related expenses (after discounts and rebates) and other reasonably required
expenses in connection with operating the park (e.g., cost of recreational
activities provided for park residents).
   b.   If a management fee for off-site property management services is paid
in the immediate prior year but was not paid in the base year, then a
management fee shall be imputed in the base year on the same basis as such fee
is charged in the prior year and included as an operating cost in the base year
as well as in the prior year.
   c.   "Management's ordinary and necessary operating costs" shall not include
any amounts for mortgage expenses, either for principal or interest, or for
depreciation.
   5.   "Net operating income per space per month" or "NOI per space per month"
means the difference between operating income per space per month and operating
costs per space per month.
   a.   "Prior year NOI per space per month" means the net operating income per
space per month in the prior year.
   b.   "Base year NOI per space per month" means the net operating income per
space per month in the base year.
   c.   "Inflation -- adjusted base year NOI per space per month" means base
year NOI per space per month, multiplied by the CPI in the last month of the
prior year, divided by the CPI in the last month of the base year.
   6.   If inflation-adjusted base year NOI per space per month is greater than
prior year NOI per space per month, then management shall be entitled to an
increase in base rent for each rental space in the park equal to such
difference in lieu of the seventy-five percent of CPI increase.
   D.   Capital Expenses.
   1.   If management seeks a maintenance of net operating income increase in
base rent, then, in addition to any allowable maintenance of net operating
income increase in base rent, management may also seek and shall receive a rent
increase to reimburse its costs for a capital expense which (a) was incurred
during the prior year or in the current year (prior to the date of the rent
increase notice) in response to an urgent need or emergency condition (e.g., to
repair a failure in an underground natural gas pipeline), or (b) is proposed to
be carried out (e.g., nonemergency but needed road resurfacing).
   2.   The amount of a rent increase for capital expense charges shall be
calculated as follows: the total cost of the capital expense together with
reasonable financing costs shall be amortized on a monthly basis over the
expected useful life of the capital expense and then divided by the total
number of spaces in the park, in order to determine the amount of the capital
expense per space per month. The expected useful life of a capital expense
shall, if possible, be determined by reference to Internal Revenue Service
straightline depreciation/amortization schedules and guidelines.
   3.   Each capital expense shall be reasonably necessary, including emergency
repairs. If all or a part of the capital expense is not reasonably necessary,
then all or such part of the capital expense shall not be the basis for a rent
increase under this subsection. For example, if park roadways are repaved and
have a useful life of ten years, a further capital expense for repaving such
roads should not be reasonably necessary under ordinary circumstances until
near or after the end of the expected useful life of the prior repaving job.
However, an expected useful life of a capital expense does not guarantee that
the repair or replacement will not require a further capital expense prior to
full amortization of the prior capital expense (since the expected useful life
is based on averages), and a further rent increase for the further capital
expense shall be permitted if reasonably necessary under the circumstances.
   4.   Any notice of a rent increase which includes a rent increase for
capital expenses shall contain a payment plan for the capital expense rent
increase per space per month and the time period required to amortize the cost
of the capital expense over the expected useful life with reasonable financing
(e.g., ten dollars per space for seventy-two months). Such rent increase for a
capital expense shall be included in rent until the capital expense has been
fully amortized under the payment plan. Management shall discontinue charging a
rent increase for a capital expense at the time which was specified by the
payment plan.
   5.   If management fails to begin construction of a proposed capital expense
within six months after beginning to charge for the cost of the capital
expense, then management shall discontinue the increase for the capital expense
and shall credit any amounts collected to each homeowner on his/her next rent
statement.
   E.   Capital Improvements.
   1.   In addition to either a seventy-five percent of CPI or a maintenance of
net operating income increase in base rent, management may also seek and obtain
a rent increase for a capital improvement if (a) management has obtained the
written consent to such capital improvement of either (i) a majority of the
owners of mobilehomes in any park owned by a corporation whose shareholders are
residents in the park, with each rental space and shareholder-occupied space in
such a park being entitled to one vote, or (ii) a homeowner majority in any
other park, or (b) the capital improvement is required by a change in
governmental law or regulation.
   2.   The amount of a rent increase for a capital improvement shall be
calculated as follows: the total cost of the capital improvement together with
reasonable financing costs shall be amortized on a monthly basis over the
expected useful life of the capital improvement and then divided by the total
number of spaces in the park, in order to determine the amount of the capital
improvement per space per month. The expected useful life of a capital
improvement shall, if possible, be determined by reference to Internal Revenue
Service straightline depreciation/amortization schedules and guidelines.
   3.   Any notice of a rent increase which includes rent for a capital
improvement shall contain a payment plan showing the cost of the capital
improvement per mobilehome space and the time period required to amortize the
cost of the improvement over the expected useful life with reasonable financing
(e.g., ten dollars per space for seventy-two months). Such amount shall be
included in rent until the capital improvement has been fully amortized.
Management shall discontinue charging rent for a capital improvement at the
time which was specified by the payment plan.
   4.   If management fails to begin construction of a capital improvement
within six months after beginning to charge for the cost of the capital
improvement, then management shall discontinue the rent increase for the
capital improvement and shall credit any amounts collected to each homeowner on
his/her next rent statement. (Ord. 92-22 § 1, 1992; Ord. 92-17 § 4, 1992)
5.20.032 Monthly rent and utility statements.
   Each month management shall provide each homeowner with a statement showing
the following:
   A.   The rent then in effect, including a breakdown showing:
   1.   Base rent; and
   2.   The monthly amount for each capital expense and/or capital improvement
included in rent, if any, and the date by which the charge for each capital
expense and/or capital improvement included in rent will be fully amortized;
and
   B.   Each submetered utility charge. (Ord. 92-17 § 5, 1992)
5.20.033 Notice of rent increase.
   A.   An annual notice of rent increase, given in accordance with state law,
shall set forth (1) the increase in base rent and the amount of base rent after
the increase, (2) the rent increase for each new capital expense and/or capital
improvement, if any, and the payment plan for each, and (3) total rent
(including rent for old capital expenses and/or capital improvements which have
not been fully amortized). If the noticed rent increase exceeds the seventy-
five percent of CPI rent increase, then the annual notice of rent increase also
shall comply with Section
5.20.034 A.
   B.   If management complies with the meet and confer process set forth in
Section
5.20.034, then management shall be entitled to receive the rent increase in
excess of the seventy-five percent of CPI rent increase as of the effective
date of increase specified in the notice, unless either (a) a homeowner
majority has validly petitioned for a rent hearing in accordance with the rules
or (b) management and homeowner representatives have entered into a settlement
agreement through the meet and confer process. (Ord. 92-17 § 6, 1992)
5.20.034 Meet and confer process.
   A.   If a noticed rent increase exceeds the seventy-five percent of CPI rent
increase, then the notice of rent increase shall include the following
information in substantially the following form:
   In accordance with provisions of the City of Pismo Beach Mobilehome Rent
Control Regulations, we are providing you with the following information:
   The rent increase in this notice is greater than 75% of the increase in the
Consumer Price Index. A meet and confer session is scheduled for (date) at
(place) to discuss the basis for this increase. Homeowners must send
representatives to this session, but not more than four representatives. Your
representatives may obtain information upon which this increase is based at
(place) , beginning (date) . If the date for the meet and confer session is not
convenient for your representatives, it may be possible to change that date by
consulting with (person) .
   If a petition for rent hearing is filed, then additional rent in the amount
of a fee for one-half of the per space rent hearing fee as established by the
City of Pismo Beach will be charged. If you fail to send representatives to the
meet and confer session and a petition for a rent arbitration is filed, then
you may be required to pay an additional fee for what would otherwise be
management's share of the hearing fee charged by the City of Pismo Beach.
   B.   If a noticed rent increase exceeds the seventy-five percent of CPI rent
increase, then a meet and confer session shall be scheduled between seventeen
and twenty-five days following the date of the annual notice of rent increase
unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. Meetings shall be held within the
mobilehome park or at another location agreeable to the parties. No later than
ten days following the date in the notice of increase, management shall make
available to representatives selected by homeowners the following information:
   1.   A statement reviewed by a certified public accountant or licensed
public accountant listing expenses and income (including costs for property
taxes and assessments, maintenance/repairs, supplies, on-site employee expense,
insurance, utility costs, property management fees, expenses paid to a
certified public accountant or licensed public accountant for financial
statement review and preparation, any other costs in operating the park, and
submetered utility income and laundry/storage income) for the prior year, which
statement shall comply with the evidentiary requirements of the rules
concerning financial information;
   2.   A statement prepared by a certified public accountant or licensed
public accountant listing income and expenses (including costs for property
taxes and assessments, etc., as set forth above) for the two years preceding
the prior year and the base year, which statement shall comply with the
evidentiary requirements of the rules concerning financial information except
that compiled rather than reviewed statements may be provided for the base
year, 1990 and 1991 (for years ending in or after 1992, reviewed statements
shall be provided -- See Section
5.20.040 B);
   3.   Any other information upon which an increase is based (e.g., "bids" for
capital expenses or capital improvements, and calculations of inflation-
adjusted base year NOI per space per month and prior year NOI per space per
month).
   C.   Management shall have no more than four representatives at the meet and
confer session(s) and shall include at least one representative personally
familiar with the basis for the rent increase, including income/expense
documents, and with sufficient authority to make decisions binding on park
management during the meet and confer session.
   D.   Homeowners shall have no more than four representatives at the meet and
confer session(s), and these representatives shall have sufficient authority to
make decisions binding on all homeowners in the park during the meet and confer
session, subject to veto by the homeowners.
   E.   Any settlement agreement resulting from the meet and confer session
shall be put into writing, signed by the representatives of the parties, and
circulated among homeowners. Such settlement agreement shall be effective in
lieu of the noticed increase unless vetoed by the homeowners.
   F.   Homeowners may veto a settlement agreement by filing a valid petition
to contest the noticed increase pursuant to the rules. The filing of a valid
petition shall nullify a settlement agreement between management
representatives and homeowner representatives. (Ord. 94-01 § 1, 1994; Ord. 92-
22 § 2, 1992; Ord. 92-17 § 7, 1992)
5.20.035 Rent hearing.
   A.   The city council shall adopt by resolution rules for mobilehome park
rent hearings.
   B.   If a homeowner majority petitions for a rent hearing within fifty days
after the date of the annual notice of rent increase in accordance with the
rules, then (i) a hearing officer shall be selected, (ii) management shall pay
a hearing fee to the city (and shall be entitled to bill homeowners for one-
half of such hearing fee after paying the fee), and (iii) a rent hearing shall
be held and decision rendered, all in accordance with the rules and this
chapter.
   C.   A failure by homeowners to participate in the meet and confer process
shall be grounds for the hearing officer to award an additional one-time rent
increase equal to management's one-half share of the hearing fee under the
rules, to be paid by each homeowner. Similarly, a failure by management to
participate in the meet and confer process shall be grounds for the hearing
officer to order management to refund the one-half share of the hearing fee
paid by each homeowner, as a credit against rent. The hearing officer shall
have discretion whether to make such awards, depending on the facts and
circumstances of a particular matter.
   D.   Where a homeowner majority has petitioned for a hearing on an increase
and the hearing is to be held after the effective date of increase, management
may collect the increase pending the hearing officer's decision; however, any
portion of an increase in excess of seventy-five percent of the CPI increase
shall be placed in an interest-bearing account and held by management as
trustee for the homeowners of the park.
   1.   Where the hearing officer approves the full amount of noticed increase,
management shall be entitled to retain the full amount in the interest-bearing
account together with accrued interest, if any.
   2.   Where the hearing officer approves an increase in an amount less than
the amount noticed, management shall be entitled to the full amount in the
interest-bearing account subject to a homeowner credit against future rent. The
amount of the credit shall be the difference between the amount deposited in
the interest-bearing account and the amount approved, plus a proportional
amount of the interest, if any, prorated among the tenancies. Management shall
notify each homeowner in writing of the amount of credit. (Ord. 92-17 § 8,
1992)
5.20.036 Rent reductions for cost savings due to reductions in services or
amenities.
   If management reduces or eliminates any service or amenity to homeowners,
then management shall reduce the affected homeowner's base rent by the per
space per month share of the cost savings due to such reduction or elimination
of such service or amenity. If homeowners believe there has been a reduction in
services or amenities, then they may select representatives and schedule a
meeting with management to discuss the issue. If the issue is not resolved in
such meeting or management refuses to meet with the selected representatives
within a reasonable time, then a homeowner majority may petition for a rent
hearing on such issue at any time thereafter through and including fifty days
after the date of the next annual notice of rent increase. (Ord. 92-17 § 9,
1992)
5.20.040 Prohibitions, duties and rights.
   A.   Management shall not demand, accept, or retain more than the maximum
rent permitted by this chapter, and management shall not effect a prohibited
rent increase through the reduction or elimination of services or amenities by
failing to reduce rents in the amount of its cost savings.
   B.   Management shall keep detailed records concerning the monthly rents and
rent increase dates for all spaces in the mobilehome park. Such records shall
be available for inspection by the city during business hours. Management shall
maintain and retain proper records to substantiate year-end statements setting
forth operating income and operating expenses as defined in this chapter, with
a review letter prepared by a licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant. A copy of the review letter and statement shall be filed annually
with the city clerk within ninety days after the park's year end.
   C.   Evictions. Management shall not bring any action to recover possession
of a space subject to the provisions of this chapter unless:
   1.   The homeowner has violated an obligation or covenant of her or his
tenancy and has failed to cure such violation after having received written
notice thereof from management (Civil Code Sections 798.56 (a), (d) and (e));
   2.   The homeowner is committing, or permitting to exist, a nuisance on, or
is causing substantial damage to, the space, or is creating a substantial
interference with the comfort, safety or enjoyment of homeowners or other
residents of the mobilehome park (Civil Code Sections 798.56 (a), (b), (c) and
(d));
   3.   The homeowner is convicted of using or permitting the space to be used
for any illegal purpose (Civil Code Section 798.56 (c));
   4.   The homeowner has refused management reasonable access to the space for
the purpose of making necessary repairs or improvements required by the laws of
the United States, the state or any subdivision thereof, or for the purpose of
inspection as permitted or required by law (Civil Code Sections 798.56 (a) and
(d)).
   D.   Refusal of a Homeowner to Pay a Rent Increase. A homeowner may refuse
to pay any increase in rent which is in violation of this chapter and such
violation shall be a defense in any action brought to recover possession of a
space or to collect the unlawful rent increase.
   E.   Violation of Chapter. It shall be unlawful for management to demand,
accept, receive or retain any payment of rent in excess of the maximum lawful
rent set forth in this chapter. A violation of this chapter shall be a defense
in any action brought by management to recover possession of a space. (Ord. 92-
17 § 10, 1992: prior code § 9.60.040)
5.20.050 Annual review of chapter provisions.
   Every two years, a subcommittee appointed by the mayor of the city shall
review this chapter and the effectiveness thereof, including but not limited to
whether or not this chapter is fair and equitable to both homeowners and
management. The subcommittee shall thereafter with due diligence report back to
the council the results of such review, including but not limited to
recommendations for such amendments to this chapter as the subcommittee shall
deem necessary and proper at that time. (Ord. 92-17 § 11, 1992: prior code §
9.60.050)
5.20.060 Mobilehome park transfers--Chapter applicability.
   In the event any owner of a mobilehome park sells or otherwise in any manner
transfers whether voluntarily or involuntarily any such park, the buyer or
transferee of such park shall be bound by the rental increases permitted in
this chapter as though such sale or transfer had not occurred. (Prior code §
9.60.060)
5.20.070 Rent changes upon transfer of ownership.
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the mobilehome
park owner may increase the rent for any space in the park as provided in this
section whenever there is a sale and/or transfer of ownership of a mobilehome
by a sum not to exceed ten percent above the then current base rent for that
space. However, no increase may be charged by reason of interspousal transfers
or transfers to court-appointed trustees, guardians or conservators.
   B.   A rent increase under this section may be charged for a particular
space no more often than once every three years, regardless of the number of
actual transfers. Park management shall submit to the city clerk a notice of
each change in space rent, giving names of sellers and buyers, date of change,
space number, amount of previous rent, and amount of increased rent. This
notice shall be available for reference when determining permissible space rent
increases.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, this section shall
apply to mobilehome parks as defined herein only to the extent allowed under
state law and specifically as limited by Cal. Civil Code § 1954.50 et seq.
(Ord. 03-02 § 5, 2003; Ord. 92-18 § 1, 1992: Ord. 90-15 § 1, 1990: prior code §
9.60.070)
5.20.080 Rental of occupant's primary residence, or sublet of space—Conditions.
   A.   1. Management shall permit an occupant to rent his or her home that
serves as the occupant's primary residence or sublet his or her space, under
the circumstances described in subdivision 2 and subject to the requirements of
this section.
   2.   An occupant shall be permitted to rent or sublet pursuant to
subdivision 1 if a medical emergency or medical treatment requires the occupant
to be absent from his or her home and this is confirmed in writing by an
attending physician.
   B.   The following provisions shall apply to a rental or sublease pursuant
to this section:
   1.   The minimum term of the rental or sublease shall be six months, unless
the management approves a shorter term, but no greater than twelve months,
unless the management approves a longer term.
   2.   The management may require approval of a prospective renter or
sublessee, subject to the process and restrictions provided by subdivision (a)
of Section 798.74 for prospective purchasers of mobilehomes. A prospective
sublessee shall comply with any rule or regulation limiting residency based on
age requirements. The management may charge a prospective sublessee a credit
screening fee for the actual cost of any personal reference check or consumer
credit report that is provided by a consumer credit reporting agency, as
defined in Section 1785.3, if the management or his or her agent requires that
personal reference check or consumer credit report.
   3.   The renter or sublessee shall comply with all the rules and regulations
of the park. The failure of a renter or sublessee to comply with the rules and
regulations of the park may result in the termination of the occupant's tenancy
in the mobilehome park. An occupant's tenancy may not be terminated under this
paragraph if the occupant completes an action for unlawful detainer or executes
a judgment for possession, pursuant to Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 1159)
of Title 3 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure within sixty days of the
occupant receiving notice of termination of tenancy.
   4.   The occupant shall remain liable for the mobilehome park rent and other
park charges.
   5.   The management may require the occupant to reside in the mobilehome
park for a term of one year before management permits the renting or subletting
of a mobilehome or mobilehome space.
   6.   If a security deposit has been refunded to the occupant, the management
may require the occupant to resubmit a security deposit in an amount or value
not to exceed two months' rent in addition to the first month's rent.
Management may retain this security deposit for the duration of the term of the
rental or sublease.
   7.   The occupant shall keep his or her current address and telephone number
on file with the management during the term of rental or sublease. If
applicable, the occupant may provide the name, address, and telephone number of
his or her legal representative.
   C.   An occupant may not charge a renter or sublessee more than an amount
necessary to cover the cost of space rent, utilities, and scheduled loan
payments on the mobilehome, if any. (Ord. 03-02 § 6, 2003)
5.20.100 Rent rollback.
   A.   The city council has made findings that certain mobilehome spaces in
mobilehome parks within the city are possibly being charged an inequitable
rental rate for mobilehome spaces, and that inequitable rates may have been
imposed on spaces transferred just prior to and in anticipation of enactment of
these rent control regulations, and in derogation to the city's overall rent
control scheme.
   B.   A mobilehome owner within the city may petition for a rollback of rent
pursuant to the standards and procedure as set forth in this section. In order
to be considered for a rent rollback, a petitioner for a rent rollback must
submit a formal written petition to the city manager (or designee) requesting
consideration of a rollback of rent. The city council may set by resolution a
fee to be paid by the petitioner. In order to be considered by the city
council, the petition must provide evidence that:
   1.   The rate was imposed in response to or in anticipation of the city's
regulation of mobilehome rent, and
   2.   The rate is arbitrary and excessive in light of the rent control
scheme.
   C.   If the petition meets the criteria established above, pursuant to
review by the city manager, the city clerk shall set the matter for hearing
before the city council within forty-five days of receiving the petition. The
affected mobilehome park owner shall be provided notice of the public hearing
at least thirty days prior to the public hearing. The mobilehome park owner can
submit a formal written protest against a rollback of rent. The protest and
supporting documents must be submitted to the city manager no later than ten
days prior to the scheduled hearing date. The city council shall make written
findings and determinations supporting its decision based upon the testimony
and documents presented to it at the hearing, and shall adopt its written
findings and determinations within fourteen days of the close of the hearing on
the matter.
   D.   A rolled back equitable space rental rate will be determined by adding
ten percent to the rent as paid by the prior tenant, or in excess of ten
percent as determined to be equitable by the city council. The rent will then
be adjusted to account for increases up to the current year. Unless otherwise
determined, tenants shall not be reimbursed for rents paid to date as an
allowance for any possible transfer of value for a mobilehome at the time of
purchase.
   E.   All decisions of the city council shall be conclusive and final.
Enforcement actions can be instituted by the city, or any affected mobilehome
tenant, or the mobilehome park owner. A tenant may refuse to pay any rent in
excess of the determinations of the city council, and this shall be a defense
in any action brought to recover possession of a space or to collect the
unlawful rent.
   F.   A homeowner must petition the city council for a rent rollback by
January 1, 1998, or within three years from the date of the initially imposed
arbitrary and excessive rent. (Ord. 97-05 § 2, 1997)
Chapter 5.22
Vacation Rental and Short-Term Rental Regulation
5.22.010   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and phrases shall be
construed as set forth in this section, unless it is apparent from the context
that a different meaning is intended. The words “shall” and “will” are
mandatory; the word “may” is discretionary.
   “Bedroom” shall mean a room that is primarily used for sleeping. A bedroom
shall be no less than seventy (70) square feet in size, with a minimum
horizontal dimension of no less than seven (7) feet on any side. A bedroom
offered for rent within a short-term rental or homestay shall meet all
applicable California Building Code requirements.
   “Good Neighbor Policy” shall mean the administrative policy adopted and
revised from time to time by the Community Development Director setting forth
operational details for properties licensed under this chapter.
   “Homestay” shall mean an owner-occupied, detached single-family residence
where bedrooms are rented for compensation for less than thirty (30)
consecutive days.
   “Long-term rental” shall mean a rental for thirty (30) consecutive days or
more. Any rental agreement that allows a sublet or sublease to multiple parties
for any terms less than thirty (30) days, or early cancellation with or without
penalty that allows multiple rentals within a thirty (30) day period, shall be
considered a short-term rental and be subject to the terms of a short-term
rental license as provided in this Code.
   “Primary residence” shall mean the dwelling owned and occupied as the
property owner's principal place of residence, where the owner lives more than
fifty percent (50%) of the year, defined herein as one hundred eighty-three
(183) days or more per year on a rolling three hundred sixty-five (365) day
basis. For purposes of short-term rental or homestay licensing, a person can
only have one primary residence at any time.
   “Proof of primary residence” shall mean all documentation deemed acceptable
by the city showing the dwelling is the owner's principal residence, including
but not limited to tax records, property tax records, utility records,
ownership documents for other properties, and homeowners' exemptions.
   “Responsible party” shall mean a person, over the age of eighteen (18), who
shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with all applicable provisions of
the Pismo Beach Municipal Code by all renters and visitors of the property,
twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week. The responsible party
shall sign and be responsible for enforcing the City’s Good Neighbor Policy and
is designated as the point of contact for the property. The responsible party
shall ensure the maintenance of the licensed property in compliance with this
chapter and other applicable regulations, and shall be responsible for the
conduct and acts of said renters and visitors to the extent provided herein.
   “Short-term rental” or “STR” shall mean the rental of a detached single-
family residence for less than thirty (30) consecutive days where the primary
residence is not being concurrently occupied by the owner.
   “Time-share plan” shall mean any arrangement, established by membership
agreement, plan, scheme, or similar device, whether sale, lease, deed, license,
right-to-use agreement, articles of organization or incorporation, operating
agreement or bylaws, or by any other means, whereby a purchaser, in exchange
for consideration, receives the right to exclusive use of real property or a
portion thereof, according to a fixed or floating time schedule, for a period
of time less than a full year during any given year, on a recurring basis for
more than one year, but not necessarily for consecutive years. A timeshare plan
shall be deemed to exist whenever such recurring rights of exclusive use to
real property are created, regardless of whether such exclusive rights of use
are a result of a grant of ownership rights, possessory rights, membership
rights, rights pursuant to contract, or ownership of a fractional interest or
share in real property, and regardless of whether they are coupled with
ownership of a real property interest such as freehold interest or an estate
for years in the property subject to the time-share plan.
   “Transient” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section
3.20.020 of this code.
   “Vacation rental” means any structure, as defined in the building code
adopted in Section
15.04.010 of this code, which exists, is constructed, or which is maintained or
used upon any premises for the purpose of transient lodging which consists of
four or fewer separate transient rental units.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2010- 002 § 1, 2010)
Article I. Vacation Rental Regulation
5.22.020   Vacation rental license required.
   No owner or owners of a vacation rental shall rent, offer to rent, or
advertise for rent the vacation rental to another person without a license
approved and issued in the manner provided for by this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023)
5.22.030   Vacation rental application process.
   A.   Persons wishing to use a structure as a vacation rental shall do all of
the following:
   1.   Complete a vacation rental license request form, which form shall be
provided by the community development director or designee.
   2.   Submit the following information in support of a vacation
rentallicense:
   a.   The name, address and telephone number of the property owner and
aresponsible party that can be reached via telephone twenty-four (24) hours a
day, seven (7) days a week, to respond to complaints regarding the use of the
vacation rental. The responsible party shall reside or maintain a physical
business address within twenty-five (25) miles of the vacation rental. A post
office box or private mail drop address shall not be deemed to comply with the
requirement of maintaining a residence or physical business address. An owner
of a vacation rental who resides within a twenty-five (25) mile radius of the
vacation rental unit may designate themselves as the responsible party. Any
change in the responsible party’s address or telephone number shall be promptly
furnished to the city within forty-eight (48) hours of such change.
   b.   A site and floor plan including unit square footage, bedroom and
bathroom locations and dimensions, and parking locations and dimensions, and
photographs showing the interior of each bedroom and showing each parking
location.
   c.   A copy of the proposed notices required by Section
5.22.050E. to be posted inside the vacation rental unit.
   d.   Proof of written notification to all property owners and residents
within three hundred (300) feet of any point on the property containing the
vacation rental, describing the proposed vacation rental use, including the
number of separate vacation rental units, the number of on-site parking spaces
and the telephone number of the contact person/entity set forth in subsection
A.2.a. of this section.
   e.    Acknowledgment that the owner and responsible party, if any, have read
all this chapter, and acknowledgment of their responsibility to assist in
enforcement for payment of transient occupancy taxes.
   f.   Such other information as the community development director or
designee deems reasonably necessary to administer this chapter.
   3.   Submit to an inspection of the vacation rental by city staff prior to
issuance of license.
   4.   Obtain a valid business license for a vacation rental unit.
   B.   Once the vacation rental is approved by the community development
department and a valid business license is on file for the vacation rental, the
tax administrator will issue a transient occupancy registration certificate for
the vacation rental pursuant to Section
3.20.060 of this code.
   C.   Vacation rental licenses shall be personal property of the vacation
rental unit operator and shall not run with the land. Upon sale of a property
operated as a vacation rental, the vacation rental license shall expire as of
the date of sale, and the new owner shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter prior to operation of the vacation rental unit.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2018- 013 § 3, 2018: Ord. O-2010-002
§ 1, 2010)
5.22.040   Vacation rental standards.
   A.   Except as otherwise permitted by the community development director
upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, each vacation rental shall have
a minimum of two parking spaces available on-site at all times.
   B.   Each vacation rental shall provide for garbage removal as required by
Chapter 8.12 of this code.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2010- 002 § 1, 2010)
5.22.050   On-going requirements for vacation rental operation.
   A.   The operator of the vacation rental shall, at all times while the
property is being used as a vacation rental, maintain a responsible party that
can be reached via telephone twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, to
respond to complaints regarding the use of the vacation rental. The responsible
party shall respond, either in person, or by return telephone call, within
three hours of a complaint, and the responsible party shall provide the
complaining party a proposed resolution to the complaint.
   B.   The operator or responsible party shall use best efforts to ensure that
the occupants and/or guests of the vacation rental do not create unlawful noise
or disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct, or violate provisions of this
code or any state law pertaining to noise or disorderly conduct, by notifying
the occupants of the rules regarding vacation rentals and responding in person
when notified that occupants are violating laws regarding their occupancy.
Notwithstanding the retention of a responsible party, the owner of the vacation
rental is responsible for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
the failure of an agent, representative, or responsible party to comply with
this chapter shall be deemed noncompliance by the owner.
   C.   A written notice shall be conspicuously posted inside each vacation
rental unit setting forth the name, address, and telephone number of the
responsible party required in Subsection 5.22.050 A. of this Code. The notice
shall also set forth the maximum number of occupants permitted to stay
overnight in the unit, the maximum number of vehicles allowed to be parked on-
site, and the day(s) established for garbage collection. The notice shall also
provide the non-emergency telephone number of the City Police Department.
   D.   Any advertising of the vacation rental shall include the vacation
rental license number provided by the city.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 20, 2025; Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2010-002
§ 1, 2010)
5.22.060   Violations and enforcement.
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to construct for
vacation rental use, to convert to vacation rental use, to offer to another for
vacation rental use, or to occupy as a vacation rental use any portion of any
structure or facility without full compliance with this chapter.
   B.   In addition to, or in lieu of criminal sanctions set forth in
subsection A., administrative penalties, including a notice of violation, shall
be imposed, and licenses shall be revoked, in the manner provided in this
subsection B.
   1.   The city building official or designee shall conduct an investigation
whenever there is reason to believe that an owner has failed to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. Should the investigation reveal that a violation
occurred, the city building official or designee shall issue written notice of
the violation and intention to impose a penalty and/or revoke the license. The
written notice shall be served on the owner and operator or agent and shall
specify the facts which, in the opinion of the city building official,
constitute grounds for imposition of the penalties and/or revocation, and
specify that the penalties will be imposed and/or that thelicense will be
revoked within fifteen days from the date the notice is given unless the owner
and/or operator files with the city clerk the fine amount and a request for a
hearing. The penalties for violations specified in subsection B. of this
section shall be as follows:
   a.   For the first violation within any twelve-month period, the penalty
shall be a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars, and/or suspension of the
license for a period not to exceed three months.
   b.   For a second violation within any twelve-month period, the penalty
shall be a fine not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars, and/or suspension of
the license for a period not to exceed six months.
   c.   For a third violation within any twelve-month period, the penalty shall
be a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars, and/or suspension of the license
for a period not to exceed one year.
   2.   If the owner requests a hearing within the time specified in subsection
1. of this section, the city clerk shall serve written notice on the owner and
operator, by mail, of the date, time and place for the hearing which shall be
scheduled not less than fifteen days, nor more than forty-five days of receipt
of request for a hearing. The community development director may preside over
the hearing or may designate a hearing officer to take evidence and submit
proposed findings and recommendations to the community development director.
The community development director shall impose the penalties or revoke the
license only upon a finding that a violation has been proven by a preponderance
of the evidence, and that the penalty or revocation is consistent with the
provisions of this chapter. The community development director shall render a
decision within thirty days of the hearing and the decision shall be final.
   C.   The community development director or designee shall have the authority
to impose additional conditions on any license in the event of any violation of
the conditions of the license or the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2010-002 § 1, 2010)
Article II. Short-Term Rental Regulation
5.22.100 Short-term rental license required.
   No owner or owners of a property shall rent, offer to rent, or advertise for
rent the property as a short-term rental or homestay to another person without
a license approved and issued in the manner provided for by this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part)Ø, 2023)
5.22.110   Short-term rental application process.
   A.   A property owner wishing to use a detached single-family residence as a
short-term rental or homestay shall do all of the following:
   1.   Complete a short-term rental application. Submit the following
information at the time of application. Applications will not be deemed
complete nor processed until all required information is provided and the
short-term rental application fee, set by council resolution, is paid to the
city:
   a.   The name, address and telephone number of the property owner, or
authorized responsible party, that can be reached via telephone twenty-four
(24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, to respond to complaints regarding the
use of the STR or homestay. Any change in the contact information for either
the property owner or responsible party shall be promptly furnished to the city
within 48 hours of such change.
   b.   A site and floor plan including unit square footage, bedroom and
bathroom locations and dimensions, and parking locations and dimensions, and
photographs showing the interior of each bedroom and showing each parking
location.
   c.   Notification materials containing information that allows the city to
produce mailing labels, including both owner and occupant lists. The
information should be provided in Microsoft Excel format or equivalent. The
information should include the following fields for all properties within afive
hundred (500) foot radius of any point on the property containing the short-
term rental: assessor parcel number, property address, first and last name of
owner, owner mailing address, owner city, owner state, and owner zip code. A
receipt or letter from the title company or person who completes notification
labels, certifying that the labels are correct, to the best ability of the
preparer, must also be included.
   d.   Proof of property ownership for two (2) consecutive years prior to
license application and issuance.
   e.   Such other information as the community development director or
designee deems reasonably necessary to administer this chapter, including but
not limited to: a government issued driver's license or identification, voter
registration, vehicle registration, property tax bill, tax return, and utility
bills.
   f.   Acknowledgment that the owner andresponsible party, if any, have read
this chapter, and acknowledgment of their responsibility to assist in
enforcement for payment of transient occupancy taxes.
   g.   Submit a signed affidavit under penalty of perjury by the property
owner stating that the home is their primary residence. Failure to sign the
affidavit shall be grounds for denial of an STR or homestay license.
   h.   For properties located as part of a Homeowners Association (HOA),
written authorization from the HOA Board of Directors to use the property as an
STR or homestay shall be required prior to action on the license by the city
   2.   Submit to an inspection of the rental by city staff prior to issuance
of the license. Prior to issuance of an STR or homestay license, the city shall
conduct an inspection of subject property to confirm bedroom count, on-site
parking, and applicable safety standards. If complaints are received about STR
or homestay operations, the city shall have the right to re-inspect the
property. In the event such re-inspection requires access to the interior of a
dwelling unit, the property owner shall provide the city access to the premises
upon forty-eight (48) hours' advance notice.
   3.   Review and acknowledge responsibility for enforcement of the city's
good neighbor policy.
   a.   Should the city's good neighbor policy be amended by the community
development director, a copy shall be provided to all licensed STR operators
via certified mail.
   b.   Should the certified mail not be accepted or otherwise returned to the
city as undelivered, the city shall post the amended copy of the good neighbor
policy at the subject property on the front door of the residence. such posting
shall constitute receipt of the amended good neighbor policy.
   c.   STR operators shall sign, acknowledge, and return a signed copy of the
amended good neighbor policy to the community development director within ten
(10) days of receipt.
   d.   Failure of an STR operator to sign, acknowledge, and return a signed
copy of the amended good neighbor policy to the community development director
within ten (10) days of receipt shall be grounds for revocation as outlined in
Subsection
5.22.140.C. of this Code.
   4.   Obtain a valid business license for a short term rental property.
   B.   Once the short-term rental license is issued by the community
development department and a valid business license is on file for the short-
term rental or homestay, the tax administrator will issue a valid transient
occupancy registration certificate for the short-term rental or homestay
pursuant to Section
3.20.060 of this code.
   C.   Short-term rental and homestay licenses shall be personal property of
the property owner and shall not run with the land. Upon sale of a property
operated as a short-term rental or homestay, the license shall be deemed void
without further action by the city.
(Ord. O-2023-0006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O- 2020-007 § 4, 2020: Ord. O-2018-013
§ 4 (part), 2018)
5.22.120   Short-term rental standards.
   A.   The STR or homestay shall be operated consistent with the standards and
regulations contained within the zoning codes of the Pismo Beach Municipal
Code, including but not limited to Chapters
17.09 and
17.113 of this code.
   B.   Each short-term rental/homestay shall have the minimum number of off-
street parking spaces as required by subsection
17.113.070 F. and subsection
17.09.070 F. of this Code, as applicable, available at all times. Renters of
the property shall use the off-street parking provided.
   C.   Each STR or homestay shall provide for garbage removal as required by
Chapter 8.12 of this code. Garbage bins shall be put out for collection no
earlier than 5:00 p.m. the day before collection day and brought in no later
than 8:00 p.m. on collection day.
   D.   A written notice shall be conspicuously posted inside each STR or
homestay setting forth the name, address, and telephone number of the
responsible party required in section
5.22.110 A.1.a. of this code. The notice shall also set forth the maximum
number of occupants permitted to stay overnight in the unit, the maximum number
of vehicles allowed to be parked on-site, and the day(s) established for
garbage collection. The notice shall also provide the non-emergency telephone
number of the city police department.
   E.   Any advertising of the STR or homestay shall include the STR or
homestay license number provided by the city and the approved number of
bedrooms and required on-site parking spaces.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2018- 013 § 4 (part), 2018)
5.22.130   Annual license requirements.
   A.   As of the date of adoption of the ordinance revising this Chapter 5.22,
there are twenty-eight (28) properties authorized for short-term rental or
homestay use. There shall be no more than twenty-eight (28) short-term/homestay
licenses in effect at any given time under this chapter. No applications for
short-term/homestay licenses shall be accepted after December 5, 2023 for
properties without an existing short-term/homestay license in effect as of
December 5, 2023. In the event a short-term/homestay license is either revoked
or is not renewed, or the property transfers ownership, no additional short-
term/homestay licenses shall be issued to replace the license on the property.
It is the express intention of the city council in adopting this provision to
reduce the number of short-term/homestay licenses to zero through attrition
over time.
   B.   Regardless of the date of issuance, short-term rental licenses expire
on September 30 of each year. Licensed operators are required to obtain renewal
of the license each year prior to September 30. Proof of primary residence
shall be submitted each year prior to issuance of annual STR license and
business license renewal. As a condition of renewal, the operator shall provide
the city a listing of each rental night during the preceding twelve (12)
months, a list of the rental charges imposed for each rental night during the
preceding twelve (12) months, and proof of payment of transient occupancy tax
for the prior twelve (12) months.
   C.   The licensed operator shall notify the city in writing of responsible
party and appropriate contact information. In the event the responsible party
changes, the licensed operator shall notify the city in writing of such change
not later than forty-eight (48) hours after the change.
   D.   For the first two (2) years after obtaining an STR license, the
property shall be inspected annually during the renewal period for life safety
purposes to ensure proper safety and operation of the STR. Following the first
two (2) years after an STR license is issued, annual inspections shall not be
required as part of the license renewal process, unless one or more violations
of this chapter or other provisions of this code are sustained within the
previous twelve (12) month period. In such a case, annual inspections may be
reinstated for twelve (12) months following each sustained violation.
   E.   The property owner shall apply for a business license renewal annually.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023)
5.22.140   Violations and enforcement.
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to construct for
short-term rental or homestay use, to convert to short-term rental or homestay
use, to offer to another for short-term rental or homestay use, to advertise
for short-term rental or homestay use, or to occupy as a short-term rental or
homestay use any portion of any structure or facility without full compliance
with this chapter.
   B.   In lieu of the sanctions set forth in subsection 5.22.140 A. of this
chapter, violation of this chapter may be prosecuted as an infraction, subject
to the following:
   1.   The penalties for violations specified in subsection 5.22.140 B. of
this chapter shall be as follows:
   a.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 36900(d), for infractions that pose
a threat to public health or safety, the fine shall be, at a minimum, one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for an initial violation of this
chapter, three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) for a second violation of the same
provision within one (1) year, and five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for each
subsequent violation of the same provision within one (1) year. Operation of a
short-term rental or homestay without a license, and violations of the city's
good neighbor policy, shall be deemed to pose a threat to public health or
safety.
   b.   For an initial violation, the community development director may grant
a hardship waiver to reduce the amount of the fine upon a showing by the
licensee that the licensee has made a bona fide effort to comply after the
first violation and that payment of the full amount of the fine would impose an
undue financial burden on the responsible party. No such waiver shall be
granted for subsequent violations. The fines set forth in this subsection shall
not apply to a first time offense of failure to register or pay a business
license fee.
   c.   In addition to the penalties imposed under subsection a., upon a third
violation of the same provision within a rolling one (1) year period, the
community development director shall revoke the short-term rental license.
   C.   In lieu of, or in addition to the sanctions set forth in subsection
5.22.140 A. of this code, violation of this chapter may be prosecuted as
administrative violations in the manner provided in this subsection 5.22.140 C.
   1.   The community development director or designee shall cause an
investigation to be conducted whenever there is reason to believe that an owner
has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter. Should the
investigation reveal that a violation occurred, the Community Development
Director or designee shall issue written notice of the violation and intention
to impose a penalty and/or revoke the license. The written notice shall be
served on the owner and operator or agent and shall specify the facts which, in
the opinion of the community development director, constitute grounds for
imposition of the penalties and/or revocation, and specify that the penalties
will be imposed and/or that the license will be revoked within fifteen (15)
days from the date the notice is given unless the owner and/or operator files
with the city clerk the fine amount and a request for a hearing.
   a.   The fine amount for each violation shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   b.   Each separate day or rental night in which a violation exists may be
considered a separate violation.
   c.   Should it be determined by the community development director or
designee that the residence is not the property owner's primary residence, the
license shall be revoked.
   d.   Should it be determined by the administrative services director that a
licensee has failed to submit, or has been late in submitting two (2) or more
transient occupancy taxes (TOT) submittals in a twelve (12) month period, the
license shall be revoked.
   2.   If the owner requests a hearing within the time specified in subsection
5.22.140 C.1. of this code, the city clerk shall serve written notice on the
owner and operator, by mail, of the date, time and place for the hearing which
shall be scheduled not less than fifteen (15) days, nor more than forty-five
(45) days after receipt of request for a hearing. The community development
director may preside over the hearing or may designate a hearing officer to
take evidence and submit proposed findings and recommendations to the community
development director. the community development director shall impose the
penalties or revoke the license only upon a finding that a violation has been
proven by a preponderance of the evidence, and that the penalty or revocation
is consistent with the provisions of this chapter. The community development
director shall render a decision within thirty (30) days of the hearing and the
decision shall be final.
   D.   The community development director or designee shall have the authority
to impose additional conditions on any license in the event of any violation of
the conditions of the license or the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2018- 013 § 4 (part), 2018)
5.22.150   Cessation of use of a property as short-term rental.
   Where the owner of property licensed as a short-term rental or homestay
pursuant to this chapter ceases such use, the property owner shall promptly
inform the tax administrator of the cessation of use of the property as a
short-term rental or homestay and shall surrender the STR or homestay license.
As set forth in section
5.22.130 of this code, no STR or homestay license shall thereafter be issued
for the property.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2018- 013 § 4 (part), 2018)
5.22.160   License suspension, modification, or revocation.
   In addition to any other remedy provided by this chapter, a license issued
pursuant to this chapter may be suspended, modified or revoked for violations
of this chapter, for violation of any other law on the premises of the short-
term rental or homestay, or for the maintenance of such other conditions as may
be shown to be injurious to the public health and safety. Revocation
proceedings may be initiated by the community development director and shall be
conducted pursuant to the procedures set forth in section
5.22.140B.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. O-2018- 013 § 4 (part), 2018)
5.22.170   Time-share uses prohibited.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary elsewhere in this code, no license
shall be issued under this chapter for any time-share plan.
(Ord. O-2023-006 § 3 (part), 2023)
Chapter 5.24 ALARM BUSINESSES
5.24.010 Short title.
   This chapter shall be known as the burglary, robbery and fire alarm permit
ordinance. (Prior code § 5.30.010)
5.24.020 Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the proper and effective use of
alarm systems by setting forth regulations governing burglary, robbery and fire
alarm systems and businesses within the city, requiring permits therefor,
establishing fees, and providing for punishment of violations of provisions of
this chapter. (Prior code § 5.30.020)
5.24.030 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and phrases shall be
construed as set forth in this section, unless it is apparent from the context
that a different meaning is intended.
   "Alarm agent" means any person who is employed by an alarm business, either
directly or indirectly, whose duties include any of the following: selling,
maintaining, leasing, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or
installing on or in any building, structure, or facility, any alarm system
within the city. Exemption: The provisions of this section do not include a
person who engages in the manufacture or sale of an alarm system from a fixed
location and who neither visits the location where the alarm system is to be
installed, nor designs the scheme for physical location and installation of the
alarm system in a specific location.
   "Alarm business" means the business by any individual, partnership,
corporation or other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing,
repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing any alarm system or
causing to be sold, leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced,
moved or installed any alarm system in or on any building, structure, or
facility within the city.
   "Appellant" means a person who perfects an appeal pursuant to this chapter.
   "Applicant" means a person, firm, or corporation who, or which files an
application for a new or renewal permit as provided in this chapter.
   "Audible alarm" means any mechanical or electrical device designed for the
detection of unauthorized entry on the land, building, structure and/or
facility of an alarm owner; or any mechanical or electrical device designed for
the detection of smoke and/or heat and/or water flow therein, which generates
an audible sound outdoors when it is actuated.
   "City" means the city of Pismo Beach.
   "Day" means calendar day.
   "False alarm" means an alarm signal activated intentionally or through
inadvertence, negligence, or malfunction of any segment of the alarm system and
to which personnel of the city police and/or fire department respond and there
is no police and/or fire emergency as defined this section.
   "Fire alarm system" means any mechanical or electrical device which is
designed or used for the detection of smoke and/or heat and/or water flow
within a building, structure, facility or any portion thereof, which when
activated emits a sound, displays a light or transmits a signal or message for
the purpose of alerting occupants or others of the existence of a fire
emergency. Fire alarm systems include but are not limited to direct-dial
telephone devices, audible alarms and proprietor alarms. Devices which are not
designed or used to register alarms that are audible, visible or perceptible
outside of the protected building, structure or facility are not included
within this definition, nor are auxiliary devices installed by the telephone
company to protect telephone company systems which might be damaged or
disrupted by the use of an alarm system.
   "Fire chief" means the fire chief of the city.
   "Fire emergency" means any incident requiring the response of the fire
department to perform fire extinguishing, life saving, rescue or hazard-
connected service activity.
   "Finance department" means the finance department of the city.
   "Notice" means written notice, given by personal service upon the addressee,
or given by United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person to be
notified at his last known address. Service of such notice shall be effective
upon the completion of personal service, or upon the placing of the same in the
custody of the United States Postal Service.
   "Permittee" means any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation
who, or which shall be granted a permit as provided in this chapter, and his or
its agents and representatives.
   "Person" means natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
   "Police alarm system" means any mechanical or electrical device which is
designed or used for the detection of unauthorized entry into a building,
structure, or facility or for alerting others of the commission of an unlawful
act within a building, structure or facility, or both; and which emits a sound
or transmits a signal or message when actuated. Alarm systems include but are
not limited to, direct dial telephone devices, audible alarms or proprietor
alarms. Devices which are not designed or used to register alarms that are
audible, visible or perceptible outside of the protected building, structure or
facility are not included within this definition, nor are auxiliary devices
installed by the telephone company to protect telephone company systems which
might be damaged or disrupted by the use of an alarm system.
   "Police chief" means the police chief of the city.
   "Police emergency" means any incident requiring the response of the police
department during the commission of a breaking and/or entering of a building,
structure or facility or an immediate attempted breaking or entering or the
immediate commission of a violent act likely to produce great bodily harm or
the existence of a life saving medical incident.
   "Proprietor alarm" means an alarm which is not serviced by an alarm
business.
   "Subscriber" means any person who leases, contracts for or otherwise obtains
an alarm system from an alarm business. (Prior code § 5.30.030)
5.24.040 Alarm system standards and regulations.
   The police chief and/or fire chief may prescribe minimum standards and
regulations for the construction and maintenance of all alarm systems installed
within the city. These standards and regulations shall become effective upon
adoption thereof by resolution of the city council. All devices shall meet or
exceed such standards and regulations before permits may be issued pursuant to
this chapter. The police chief may require inspection and approval of all
police alarm systems installed within the city, and the fire chief shall
require inspection and approval of all fire alarm systems installed within the
city.
   A.   Alarm businesses shall provide a written one-year warranty and service
contract on all equipment sold and installed by such alarm businesses and under
such contract shall annually inspect and service such equipment. Records of all
sales, inspections and service shall be maintained by each alarm business for a
period of not less than one year, and such records shall be open to inspection
of any police, fire, license or consumer protection officer. Nothing in this
section shall be deemed to require any person purchasing or having installed on
his premises an alarm or alarm system to enter into a service and/or inspection
contract with the seller or installer of such alarm or alarm systems.
   B.   Alarm businesses shall provide in connection with any alarm or alarm
system sold and/or installed complete oral and written instructions and
demonstration to the alarm subscriber as to the proper care and use of any such
alarm or alarm system and shall make available for review to the chief of
police at his request a current copy of all such written instruction.
   1.   Instruction shall be available in an appropriate language to all
subscribers, who use a language other than English as their primary means of
communication.
   2.   It is unlawful for any subscriber to leave any alarm or alarm system in
the care, custody, or control of any non-English speaking person who does not
have immediately at hand instructions described in subdivision 1.
   C.   Automatic Shut-off Requirements. All alarm systems, with the exception
of required fire alarm systems, that incorporate an audible alarm as all or
part of the system shall include a device which will limit the generation of
the audible sound portion of the system to not longer than ten minutes.
   1.   Each user of an alarm which is not serviced on a twenty-four-hour basis
by an alarm business, shall notify the police department of:
   a.   The name and the telephone number at which the person in charge of the
premises may be reached at any time of the day or night; and
   b.   The name and telephone number of an alternate responsible person who
may be reached to turn off the alarm at all other times that the person listed
in paragraph (1)(a) of this subsection is absent or otherwise unavailable.
   2.   The alarm business or the above listed person, as appropriate, shall
deactivate any alarm within thirty minutes of notification that such alarm has
been activated or is ringing.
   3.   The ringing of an alarm for a period in excess of thirty minutes after
such notification or reasonable efforts of notification have been is declared
to be a public nuisance. (Ord. 92-14 § 1, 1992; prior code § 5.30.040)
5.24.050 Reporting servicing information.
   Each police and/or fire alarm user shall maintain a current information card
with the police department containing his name, address and telephone number,
as well as the name, address and telephone number of a person or persons who
can render service to the alarm within one hour after being called at any hour
of the day or night. Each alarm business permittee and alarm user permittee
shall immediately inform the police department of any and all changes in the
information on file pursuant to information required by this section. (Prior
code § 5.30.050)
5.24.060 Prohibitions.
   It is unlawful for anyone to activate any police alarm system for the
purpose of summoning police or fire department personnel except in the event of
what is reasonably believed to be an unlawful act likely to produce great
bodily harm and/or an unauthorized entry into any building, structure or
facility and/or a fire emergency. (Prior code § 5.30.060)
5.24.070 Automatic telephone connection alarm systems prohibited.
   No person shall use or cause or permit to be used, or engage in the business
of providing any telephone device or telephone attachment that automatically
selects a public primary telephone trunk line of police communications center
or the fire department communications center and then reproduces any pre-
recorded message to report any robbery, burglary, fire or other emergency. No
person shall install, maintain, use or permit to be used, or engage in the
business of providing any robbery, burglary or fire emergency alarm system
which automatically or semi-automatically terminates in any private
establishment or telephone answering service, and which is relayed by the
recipient of the alarm by a telephone call to the communications center of the
police or fire department without first having obtained a written permit from
the chief of police or fire chief. (Prior code § 5.30.070)
5.24.080 Alarm business--License required.
   No person shall engage in, conduct or carry on an alarm business within the
city without first applying for and receiving a city business license therefor
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Prior code § 5.30.080)
5.24.090 Alarm systems--Permit required.
   No person shall possess or use a residential or commercial alarm system
within the city without first applying for and receiving an alarm permit
therefor in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 92-14 § 6,
1992: prior code § 5.30.090)
5.24.100 Exemption.
   The provisions of this chapter are not applicable to audible alarms affixed
to automobiles. (Prior code § 5.30.100)
5.24.110 Permit issuing authority.
   The issuing authority shall be in the finance department. (Prior code §
5.30.110)
5.24.120 Permit approving authority.
   The approving authority for police alarms (burglary) shall be the chief of
police or his designee. Fire alarms shall be approved by the fire chief or his
designee. (Ord. 92-14 § 2, 1992: prior code § 5.30.120)
5.24.130 Applications—Forms.
   Applications for all permits required under this chapter shall be filed with
the finance department and shall be accompanied by the requisite fee. The fee
is established to cover part of the cost of investigating and processing the
applications and permits and is not refundable. The finance department shall
prescribe the form of the application and request such information as is
necessary to evaluate and act upon the permit application. The application for
alarm system shall require the name, address, and telephone number of the
person who will render service or repairs during any hour of the day or night.
(Prior code § 5.30.130)
5.24.140 Application—Investigation—Denial.
   A.   The police chief and fire chief shall conduct an appropriate
investigation of all applicants to determine whether said permit shall be
issued. The police chief and fire chief may require additional information of
applicants which he deems necessary to conduct his investigation. The police
chief and fire chief may dispense with the investigation of any applicant upon
being furnished with an authenticated copy of a current permit used by another
governmental agency located in the county or issued by a department of the
state. The permit shall be denied by the police chief or fire chief if:
   1.   The character or reputation of the applicant is determined to be
inimical to the safety or general welfare of the community; or
   2.   The applicant for the alarm business permit does not comply with the
standards and regulations adopted pursuant to Section
5.24.040 of this chapter; or
   3.   The applicant, his employee or agent has knowingly made any false,
misleading or fraudulent statements of a material fact in the application for a
permit, or in any report or record required to be filed with any city agency;
or
   4.   That the applicant has a similar type permit previously revoked for
good cause within the past year unless the applicant can show a material change
in circumstances since the date of revocation. (Prior code § 5.30.140)
5.24.150 Alarm system permits.
   A.   After the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, no
police or fire alarm system shall be installed within the city without first
obtaining a permit for such system from the finance office, and no permit shall
be issued for the installation unless the system is found to comply with all
standards and/or regulations adopted pursuant to Section
5.24.040. A permit may be applied for either by the owner or the installing
alarm business. Application for an alarm system permit or permit renewal shall
be filed with the chief of police for police alarms and the fire chief for all
fire alarms.
   The initial application fee for an alarm system permit shall be twenty-five
dollars. Each permit shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance.
Depending on when the application fee is paid, it shall be prorated at six
months. Alarm permits must be renewed each year on October 1st. The annual
renewal fee shall be twenty dollars. No permit shall be issued or renewed for
any person until all alarm system permit fees and service charges due and owing
are paid.
   A building permit may be required for the installation or modification of an
alarm system in addition to this alarm permit. It is the applicants
responsibility to obtain all required permits.
   The purpose of the annual renewal is to allow for the continuous updating of
alarm holder records. This information is essential for police and fire
records. The information is contained on emergency notification cards within
the computer-aided dispatch system to allow police and fire personnel to
contact responsible persons for the alarm system when activated. Renewal forms
must be filled out and submitted with the payment of the annual renewal fee.
(Ord. 92-14 § 3, 1992: prior code § 5.30.150)
5.24.160 Fee exemptions.
   The United States government, the state, counties, municipal corporations,
departments thereof and other governmental entities are exempt from all fees by
this chapter. (Prior code § 5.30.320)
5.24.170 Fees and Penalties for false alarms.
   A.   After any false alarm caused by any malfunction of an alarm system, the
permitholder for the system or other person responsible for maintaining the
system shall cause the alarm system to be repaired so as to eliminate the cause
of the malfunction before the system is reactivated.
   B.   Every holder of an alarm system for which a permit has been issued
pursuant to this chapter, or where no such permit has been issued, the owner,
lessee, or other person responsible for maintaining the alarm system, shall be
assessed a false alarm fee to reimburse the city for the cost of the police or
fire department personnel and equipment deployed in response to a false alarm,
in such amounts as established and amended from time to time by resolution of
the city council.
   C.   False alarm fees are due and payable upon receipt of an invoice
therefor from the city. Any such fee is delinquent if unpaid thirty (30) days
after the date of the invoice. Any fee that becomes delinquent shall be subject
to a monetary penalty as follows:
   1.   Thirty-one (31) days after the date of invoice, a penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the fee shall be added, plus, commencing each month
thereafter, an additional penalty of ten percent (10%) of the original fee
shall be added, up to a maximum penalty amount not to exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the original invoiced amount.
   2.   Failure to pay any invoice, with all accrued penalties, within ninety
(90) days of the date of the invoice shall authorize the city to suspend or
revoke the alarm permit subject to the procedures set forth in Section 5.24.200
of this Code and the appeal procedures set forth in Section 5.24.220 of this
Code.
   3.   The city shall be authorized to utilize any and all legal means
available to collect a past due invoice, including accrued penalties, and the
same shall be deemed to be a debt on a written contract. In the event the city
is required to institute any legal action to recover such costs, it shall be
entitled to recover its reasonable attorney's fees and all other costs of
collection.
   D.   After any false alarm in excess of six in any twelve (12) month period,
the chief of police may notify the permitholder of the alarm system of the
police department's intention to suspend future law enforcement responses to
subsequent alarms at the property using the system until the holder has offered
satisfactory evidence of proof of correction of the system and has paid all
false alarm fees and penalties duly assessed under this section. (Ord. O-2025-
002 § 21, 2025; Ord. 92-14 § 4, 1992: prior code § 5.30.160)
5.24.180 Excessive false alarms.
   Police. In the event any police alarm system within the city activates six
or more false alarms within three hundred sixty-five days, the chief of police
may suspend or revoke the permit issued for such alarm and is declared to be a
public nuisance subject to judicial abatement or abatement under the procedures
prescribed under Chapter 8.20 of this code.
   Fire. In the event of temporary failure of a required fire alarm system or
an excess number of accidental alarm activations, the fire chief is authorized
to require the building owner or occupant to provide standby personnel as set
forth in Section 25.117 of the Uniform Fire Code until the system is restored.
   A.   Reinstatement of System. Any system suspended under Section
5.24.190 may be reinstated only by written request to the city administrator
and payment of a non-refundable fee of one hundred dollars to the finance
office.
   B.   The city administrator shall receive evidence regarding the causes for
excessive false alarms, and the alarm user may offer evidence as to any changes
made to the system to discontinue false alarms. Within forty-eight hours, the
city administrator shall issue this decision as to whether the changes made by
the user are such that the system shall be reinstated. The city administrator
may provide in his decision that reinstatement will be allowed only upon
certain additional changes being made in the system and the payment of
appropriate service charges.
   C.   The city administrator shall submit a written report which shall
contain a brief summary of the evidence considered, finding of fact and his
recommendations and decisions. The city administrator shall transmit said
decision to the police chief and/or fire chief who shall comply with such
decision. (Ord. 92-14 § 5, 1992; prior code § 5.30.170)
5.24.190 Suspension and revocation—Other grounds.
   The following shall constitute additional grounds for the suspension,
revocation and disconnection of a system and/or permit issued under this
chapter:
   A.   The violations of any of the provisions of this chapter; or
   B.   The failure to comply with standards or regulations adopted pursuant to
Section
5.24.040; or
   C.   Where an alarm business permittee or alarm agent is convicted of a
crime involving moral turpitude or where the character, reputation or moral
integrity of the permit holder or his employee is determined to be inimical to
public safety or the general welfare of the community; or
   D.   Where the applicant or permittee, his employee or agent has knowingly
made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of a material fact in the
application for a permit, or in any report or record required to be filed with
the city agency; or
   E.   Where the applicant or permittee has had a similar type permit
previously revoked for good cause within the past year, unless the applicant
can show a material change in circumstances since the date of revocation.
(Prior code § 5.30.180)
5.24.200 Procedures for suspension or revocation.
   A.   The police chief and/or the fire chief in the case of a suspension,
revocation or disconnection under Section
5.24.170, Section
5.24.180 or Section
5.24.190 of this Code, shall serve the permittee with a written order of such
decision, which shall state the reasons therefor. The order shall be effective
immediately if personally served, or forty-eight hours after same has been
deposited with the United States Postal Service.
   B.   Immediately upon such order becoming effective, neither the police
department nor the fire department shall respond to any alarm from such
suspended system, and the permittee shall discontinue the use of such system
and cease all operations conducted under the authority of any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 22 (part), 2025; Prior code §
5.30.190)
5.24.210 Revocation.
   Any suspension under this chapter shall become a revocation after the order
of suspension becomes effective unless the permittee files an appeal of the
order of suspension in the manner set forth in Section
5.24.220 of this Code. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 22 (part), 2025; Prior code §
5.20.200)
5.24.220 Appeal procedure.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision with reference to the approval or denial
of an application for a permit or renewal of such permit, the suspension or
revocation of a permit, or the assessment of a false alarm fee or penalty shall
have the right of appeal. An appeal must be submitted within fifteen (15) days
after notice of the decision or order of suspension or within fifteen (15) days
after the date of the invoice for a false alarm fee by filing with the finance
office a letter of appeal briefly stating therein the basis for such appeal and
where notice can be mailed to the appellant, together with a non-refundable
filing and processing fee in a sum established by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 22 (part), 2025; Prior code § 5.30.210)
5.24.230 Waiver.
   Failure to file a letter of appeal within the said fifteen days constitutes
a waiver of appellant's right to a hearing. (Prior code § 5.30.220)
5.24.240 Notice of hearing.
   The time and place of the hearing of such appeal shall be set at a date no
more than fifteen days after receipt of the letter of appeal. The city
administrator shall act as the hearing officer for the appeal. The appealing
party and any other person requesting notice shall be given at least five days'
notice of the time and place of such hearing by notice mailed first class
United States mail to the address given by the appealing party or person
requesting notice. The notice shall be substantially in the following form, but
may include other information:
   You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held on _________, at the
hour of __________ at which time you may show cause why the appeal which you
have filed should be sustained.
(Prior code § 5.30.230)
5.24.250 Hearing and decision.
   At the time and place set for the hearing upon appeal, the appealing party
and any other interested party shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard in order to show cause why the order being appealed from should not be
upheld. In all such cases, the burden of proof shall be upon the appellant to
show that there was no substantial evidence to support the order being appealed
from. Within forty-eight hours after the conclusion of the hearing, the officer
shall decide on the merits of the appeal and render a decision thereon. A copy
of the decision shall be mailed to the appealing party. (Prior code § 5.30.240)
5.24.260 Permits not assignable.
   No permit issued under this chapter shall be assignable. (Prior code §
5.30.250)
5.24.270 Surrender of permits.
   If any permit is revoked pursuant to this chapter, the permittee shall
surrender the permit to the finance office. (Prior code § 5.30.260)
5.24.280 Confidentiality.
   The information furnished and secured pursuant to this chapter shall be
confidential in character and shall not be subject to public inspection and
shall be kept so that the content thereof shall not be known except to persons
charged with the administration of this chapter. (Prior code § 5.30.310)
5.24.290 Suspension, revocation or disconnection.
   Upon the suspension, revocation or disconnection of any alarm system under
this chapter, the city shall be relieved of all responsibility of responding to
any alarm other than the notification by an individual in direct contact with
the police or fire department of an emergency situation on the alarm user's
property. (Prior code § 5.30.280)
5.24.300 Enforcement.
   The conviction or punishment of any person for violation of the provision of
this chapter or for failing to secure a permit as required by this chapter
shall not relieve such person from paying the permit fee due and unpaid at the
time for such conviction, nor shall payment of any permit fee prevent criminal
prosecution for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. All
remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies by the city
shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter. The amount of any permit fee shall be deemed a debt
to the city. An action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent permit fee. All permit
fees shall be deemed delinquent thirty days after they are due and payable.
(Prior code § 5.30.290)
5.24.310 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for a period of not exceeding
six months, or both fine and imprisonment. (Prior code § 5.30.270)
Chapter 5.28 PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
5.28.010 Findings and purpose.
   A.   The city council finds that the unregulated practice of solicitation
and peddling is a nuisance in that:
   1.   The activity may be carried on against the wishes of the residents,
causing annoyance to residents and intruding into their privacy;
   2.   The methods used by some of those engaged in the activity cause
apprehension to those being solicited;
   3.   The activity is one which can be used as a front or cover for gaining
access to premises for the purposes of engaging in criminal activity;
   4.   The nature of the activity permits persons to engage in it and leave
the city before they become widely known and enables them to avoid complying
with the law;
   5.   Persons engaged in this activity may be nonresidents and with no fixed
or permanent place of business and the regulation of them through the licensing
for business does not give the city sufficient control to correct the abuses in
this activity;
   6.   Congestion is extreme within the "Pier Zone" or on public streets,
sidewalks and parkways and such threatens the economic foundations of the city
and street vendors and peddlers aggravate the same in that area.
   B.   Based upon these findings, the city council concludes that the
unregulated and uncontrolled activity of solicitation and peddling affects the
welfare of the city and is a public nuisance. It is the purpose of this chapter
to define the activity sought to be regulated to impose upon those seeking to
engage in it conditions and requirements which will permit the city to protect
the welfare of its citizens, prevent intrusion into privacy and to regulate the
activity to prevent abuses.
(Ord. O-2013-003 § 1, 2013)
5.28.020 Definitions.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply in
this chapter:
   "Fixed place of business" means a fixed business place, location, building,
room, stand or enclosure separate and distinct from any other business, in
which goods, wares, merchandise, fruits or vegetables are kept, displayed or
offered for sale to the public, regularly kept open with an agent in exclusive
attendance for at least six hours per day, for at least five days per week.
   "Itinerant vendor" means any person who sets up a temporary stand or place
or uses a portable cart or motor vehicle as defined in the California Vehicle
Code for the purpose of selling any goods, wares, merchandise, fruits or
vegetables, or one who solicits orders for the sale of such goods, wares,
merchandise, fruits or vegetables to be delivered at some future time or date.
Itinerant vendor does not include a merchant having a fixed place of business
within the city, or his employee, who sells or solicits orders for the sale of
goods, wares, merchandise, services, fruits or vegetables, after a prior
approval, either oral or written, from the vendee. Itinerant vendors who set up
on private property must secure written permission from the property owner or
person having control of said property and said written permission must be in
the possession of the vendor.
   "Peddler" means any person who goes upon the premises of any property in the
city, not having been requested or invited by the occupant thereof, carrying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, or personal property of any nature and
offering the same for sale. This definition also includes any person who
solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as
part of the scheme to evade the provisions of this chapter.
   "Person" means any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society, or
other organization.
   "Selling or sales" wherever these terms are used herein, "buying" and
"purchasing" shall be deemed included.
   "Solicitor" means any person who goes upon the premises of any property in
the city, not having been requested or invited by the occupant thereof, for the
purpose of taking or soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares,
merchandise, or personal property of any nature for future delivery, or for
services to be performed in the future.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 23, 2025; Ord. O-2013-003 § 1, 2013)
5.28.030 Business license required.
   Each person who desires to solicit or peddle in the city shall first obtain
a business license pursuant to Section
5.04.020.
(Ord. O-2013-003 § 1, 2013)
5.28.040 Exemptions from business license requirement.
   The following persons are exempt from the provisions of Section
5.28.030; provided, that a completed proof of exemption form is filed with the
city manager or his/her designee and an exemption certificate is issued by the
city manager or his/her designee for a person who:
   A.   Solicits orders for products sold on an established route such as a
bakery, newspaper or dairy products route;
   B.   Solicits orders from retail dealers on behalf of a wholesaler, jobber
or manufacturer;
   C.   Solicits for a bona fide political or religious purpose;
   D.   Is a resident of the city under eighteen years of age;
   E.   Is a state-licensed real estate agent working under a real estate
broker holding a business license in the city.
(Ord. O-2013-003 § 1, 2013)
5.28.050 Street peddlers, vendors and solicitors.
   A.   License display. Every peddler or vendor at all times while engaged in
peddling or vending from a wagon, pushcart, conveyance or other vehicle shall
display in a conspicuous place on the same a city business license or exemption
certificate, if any, required by this code and shall, when peddling or vending,
display the same on demand of any police officer or of any person to whom he is
peddling or vending.
   B.   Congestion. No street peddler, solicitor or vendor shall operate in a
place where such operation will create a traffic hazard or other safety hazard,
nor shall any street peddler, solicitor or vendor violate the provisions of
Pismo Beach Municipal Code Section
12.20.185.
   C.   Refuse. Every peddler, vendor or solicitor who conducts business from a
wagon, pushcart, vehicle or other means of transportation or conveyance, shall
provide a trash receptacle readily accessible to persons making purchases from
such peddler or vendor, and the peddler or vendor shall deposit or cause to be
deposited therein, all litter and garbage resulting from sales made by him and
left by the purchasers in the immediate vicinity of the place of sale.
(Ord. O-2013-003 § 1, 2013)
5.28.060 Prohibited acts and restrictions.
   A.   Prohibited soliciting or peddling. No person may solicit or peddle in
the city:
   1.   Without a required business license or exemption certificate if exempt
pursuant to Section
5.28.040 of this Code.
   2.   On any street, sidewalk or parkway within the Pier Zone, as defined in
Section
12.20.185 of this Code.
   3.   From 6:00 p.m. one day to 8:00 a.m. the following day.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, while conducting the business of
itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler, whether licensed or unlicensed, to
enter upon any property in the city where the owner, occupant, or person
legally in charge of the premises has posted, at the entry to the premises, or
at the entry to the principal building on said premises, a nonilluminated flat
sign of not more than one square foot bearing the words "No Solicitors", or
words of similar import.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 24, 2025; Ord. O-2013-003 § 1, 2013)
5.28.070 Revocation of license.
   A.   Grounds. The city manager or his/her designee may revoke the business
license or exemption certificate of a solicitor or peddler for one or more of
the following grounds:
   1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
solicitation or peddling;
   2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for registration permit;
   3.   Violation of any ordinance or regulation of the city;
   4.   Conviction of a crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   5.   Conducting the business of soliciting or peddling in an unlawful manner
or in a manner which is a breach of the peace, or a nuisance, or is a menace to
the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   6.   Conducting the business of soliciting or peddling on any premises on
which a sign is posted pursuant to Section
5.28.060(B) of this chapter.
The revocation takes effect three days after the city manager or his/her
designee mails notice of revocation to the applicant or upon personal delivery,
whichever first occurs.
   B.   Review. A person aggrieved by the decision of the city manager or his/
her designee in revoking a license may seek review of the decision pursuant to
the provisions of Section
1.08.010 of this code. During the pendency of the review, the license is
suspended and the solicitor or peddler may not conduct his business in the
city.
(Ord. O-2013-003 § 1, 2013)
5.28.080 Violation an infraction.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be an infraction and shall be punishable
as set forth in Pismo Beach Municipal Code Section
1.20.010.
(Ord. O-2013-003 § 1, 2013)
Chapter 5.40 TAXICABS
5.40.010 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter the words defined in this section shall have
the following meanings:
   "Certificate" means a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
by the council.
   "Driver" includes every person in charge of or operating any taxicab as
defined in this section, either as agent, employee or otherwise under the
direction of the owner as defined in this section, and also includes the owner
when in charge of or operating any such taxicab.
   "Driver's permit" means a permit issued by the chief of police of the city
to an individual person, permitting that person to drive a taxicab upon the
streets of the city.
   "Owner" includes every person owning or having use or control of any
taxicab, as defined in this section.
   "Person" includes every natural person, partnership, firm or corporation.
   "Taxicab" means every automobile or motor-propelled vehicle used for the
transportation of passengers for compensation from one point in the city to
another point in said city or from a point within said city to a point outside
of said city except for cars, with or without drivers hired or leased on a time
basis for a time in excess of one hour. (Prior code § 5.16.010)
5.40.020 Licenses and permits required.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating taxicabs in the city
without first having obtained a certificate from the council so to do. No
person shall act as driver or shall hire or employ or permit anyone to act as a
driver of taxicabs in the city unless and until the person to act as a driver
has obtained from the chief of police a driver's permit. No person shall
operate any taxicab in the city either as owner or driver without having first
complied with all of the provisions of this chapter. (Prior code § 5.16.020)
5.40.030 Savings clause.
   Any person who was engaged in the business of operating taxicabs in the city
prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter and
subsequent to May 1, 1964, under any license or permit granted under the terms
of any previously existing ordinance of the city shall be deemed to have been
issued a certificate by the council under terms of this chapter and the city
clerk shall, upon request of such a person and the proof to the city clerk of
the conditions herein specified, issue to such a person a certificate in the
name of the council. (Prior code § 5.16.030)
5.40.040 Certificate—Application.
   An application for a certificate shall be filed with the city clerk. The
application shall be verified under oath and shall furnish the following
information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The financial status of the applicant shall be furnished on demand of
the council, including the amounts of all his assets and liabilities;
   C.   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers;
   D.   Any facts which the applicant believes tend to prove that public
convenience and necessity require the granting of a certificate;
   E.   The number of vehicles proposed to be operated by the applicant and the
location of proposed depots, terminals and offices;
   F.   The color scheme or insignia to be used to designate the vehicle or
vehicles of the applicant;
   G.   Such further information as the city clerk may require. (Prior code §
5.16.040)
5.40.050 Certificate—Public hearing.
   Upon the filing of an application, the city clerk shall fix a time and place
for a public hearing thereon before the council at a regular or regular
adjourned meeting of the council. Notice of such hearing shall be given to the
applicant and to all persons to whom certificates of public convenience and
necessity have been issued at least ten days prior to said hearing. (Prior code
§ 5.16.050)
5.40.060 Certificate—Issuance.
   A.   If the council finds that further taxicab service or competitive
taxicab service in the city is required by the public convenience and necessity
and that the applicant is fit, willing, and able to perform such public
transportation and to conform to the provisions of this chapter and the rules
promulgated by the council then the council shall issue a certificate stating
the name and address of the applicant, the number of vehicles authorized under
said certificate and the date of issuance; otherwise the application shall be
denied.
   B.   In making the above findings, the council shall take into consideration
the number of taxicabs already in operation, whether existing transportation is
adequate to meet the public need, the probable effect of increased service or
competitive service on local transportation and traffic conditions and the
character, experience and responsibility of the applicant. (Prior code §
5.16.060)
5.40.070 Insurance required.
   A.   No certificate of public convenience and necessity shall be issued or
continued in operation and no owner shall continue in the business of operating
taxicabs unless there is in full force and effect an indemnity bond or
insurance in an amount approved by the city attorney for each vehicle
authorized. Said bond or insurance shall be filed in the office of the city
clerk and shall be issued by a company authorized to do business in the state.
   B.   The city clerk may in his discretion allow the holder to file, in lieu
of bond or bonds, a liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state. Said policy shall conform to the
provisions of this section relating to bonds. (Ord. O-2021-003, § 13, 2021:
prior code § 5.16.070)
5.40.080 License—Fees.
   No certificate shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder
thereof has laid an annual license fee of twenty-five dollars for each vehicle
operated under the certificate. Said license fees shall be for the fiscal year
and shall be in addition to any other license fees or charges established by
proper authority and applicable to said holder or the vehicle or vehicles under
his operation and control; provided, however, that whenever any vehicle is
placed in service after the beginning of the fiscal year, the fee for said
vehicle shall be prorated on a monthly basis. (Prior code § 5.16.080)
5.40.090 Certificate—Transfer.
   No certificate may be sold, assigned, mortgaged or otherwise transferred
without the consent of the council first had and obtained. (Prior code §
5.16.090)
5.40.100 Certificate—Suspension or revocation.
   A.   A certificate issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the council if the holder thereof has:
   1.   Violated any of the provisions of this chapter;
   2.   Discontinued operations for more than thirty days within a period of
one year;
   3.   Violated any of the ordinances of the city, or the laws of the United
States or of the state, the violations of which reflect unfavorably on the
fitness of the owner to provide public transportation.
   B.   Prior to suspension or revocation, the owner shall be given notice of
the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be heard.
(Prior code § 5.16.100)
5.40.110 Driver's permit—Required.
   No person shall operate a taxicab for hire upon the streets of the city and
no person who owns or controls a taxicab shall permit it to be so driven and no
taxicab licensed by the city shall be so driven at any time for hire unless the
driver of said taxicab shall have first obtained and shall have then in force a
driver's permit issued under the provisions of this chapter. (Prior code §
5.16.110)
5.40.120 Driver's permit--Application.
   A.   An application for a driver's permit shall be filed with the chief of
police and such application shall be verified under oath and shall contain the
following information:
   1.   The names and addresses of four residents of the state who have known
the applicant for a period of one year and who will vouch for the sobriety,
honesty, and general good character of the applicant;
   2.   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers;
   3.   The educational background of the applicant;
   4.   A concise history of the applicant's employment;
   5.   The age of the applicant;
   6.   A statement of any arrests which have been made of the applicant;
   7.   A statement that the applicant is an American citizen;
   8.   The fingerprints of the applicant.
   B.   Each application shall be accompanied by a certificate from a reputable
physician of the city certifying that in his opinion the applicant is not
inflicted with any disease or infirmity which might make him an unsafe or
unsatisfactory driver.
   C.   At the time the application is filed the applicant shall pay to the
chief of police the sum of ten dollars to compensate the city for the costs of
investigation of the applicant.
   D.   No permit shall be issued to any applicant unless he is over twenty-one
years of age and the holder of a valid unrevoked chauffeur's license issued by
the state.
   E.   Any application for permit may be denied in the discretion of the chief
of police if investigation discloses or tends to show that the applicant is not
physically, mentally or morally qualified or has not a proper understanding of
the English language.
   F.   All permits granted as provided in this chapter shall expire at the end
of the license year and may be renewed, upon the application of the holder,
without further investigation or fee in the discretion of the chief of police.
Said permits are not transferable.
   G.   Any person holding a current valid driver's permit on July 29, 1964,
issued under any prior ordinance of the city regulating the driving of
taxicabs, shall be deemed to have been issued a driver's permit under the terms
of this chapter and the chief of police shall upon the request of such person
and proof to the chief of police of the conditions specified in this section,
issue to such person a driver's permit under the provisions of this chapter and
no further application or fee therefor shall be required. (Prior code §
5.16.120)
5.40.130 Driver's permit—Investigation.
   All applications for driver's permits will be considered by the chief of
police and either granted or denied within thirty days unless, for good cause,
time for further consideration is needed. Before any application is finally
passed upon, the police department shall conduct an investigation of the
applicant. Upon approval of an application, the chief of police shall issue a
driver's permit to the applicant which shall bear the name, address, race, age
and other identifying characteristics of the applicant, at the discretion of
the chief of police, including the signature of the applicant. (Prior code §
5.16.130)
5.40.140 Driver's permit—Posting.
   Every driver holding a driver's permit under this chapter shall post his
driver's permit in such a place as to be in full view of all passengers while
such driver is operating a taxicab. (Prior code § 5.16.140)
5.40.150 Driver's permit—Suspension or revocation.
   The chief of police is given the authority to suspend any driver's permit
issued under this chapter or any preexisting ordinance for a driver refusing or
failing to comply with any ordinances of the city or of laws of the state, such
suspension to last for a period of not more than ninety days. The chief of
police is also given the authority to revoke any driver's permit for failure to
comply with any provision of any ordinance of the city or of the laws of the
state. However, a driver's permit may not be revoked or suspended unless the
driver has received notice and has had an opportunity to present evidence on
his behalf. (Prior code § 5.16.150)
5.40.160 Identifying colors and insignia.
   Each holder of a certificate must keep on file with the city clerk a
statement of the name under which he is doing business, the color scheme by
which his taxicabs will be marked and painted, and the insignia to be carried
on said cabs which said color scheme and insignia must conform to the holder's
application on file with the city clerk. All cabs operated by the holder of
such a certificate shall be painted and marked in accordance with the statement
currently on file with the city clerk. No holder of a certificate shall file
any statement of color, markings or insignia which is the same as or similar to
the colors, markings, or insignia then currently on file by any other holder of
a certificate. Each taxicab shall, in plain view on the exterior of both front
doors thereof, have the business name and address of the owner painted in
letters at least two inches high. (Prior code § 5.16.160)
5.40.170 Vehicle inspections and maintenance.
   Prior to the use and operation of any vehicle under the provisions of this
chapter said vehicle shall be thoroughly examined and inspected by the police
department and found to comply with all of the laws of the state and the city
and with such reasonable rules and regulations for safety as may be prescribed
by the chief of police or by the council. Every vehicle operating under this
chapter shall be periodically inspected by the police department every six
months to insure the continued maintenance of safe operating conditions. A fee
of one dollar for each inspection shall be paid to the city clerk. In addition,
every vehicle operating under this chapter shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. (Prior code § 5.16.170)
5.40.180 Prohibited actions of driver.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any driver of a taxicab to
refuse or neglect to convey an orderly person or persons upon request unless
previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the provisions of this chapter so
to do. No driver of any taxicab shall solicit business for any hotel or motel,
or attempt to divert patronage from one hotel or motel to another. Neither
shall such driver engage in selling intoxicating liquors nor in transporting
intoxicating liquors, except when the same are in possession of a passenger,
nor solicit business for any house of ill-repute or use his vehicle for any
purpose other than the transportation of passengers. (Prior code § 5.16.180)
5.40.190 Overall service to public required.
   All persons engaged in the taxicab business in the city, operating under the
provisions of this chapter, shall render an overall service to the public
desiring to use taxicabs. Holders of certificates shall maintain a central
place of business and keep the same open twenty-four hours a day for the
purpose of receiving calls and dispatching cabs. They shall answer all calls
received by them for services inside the corporate limits of the city as soon
as they can do so, and if such service cannot be rendered within a reasonable
time, they shall then notify the prospective passengers how long it will be
before said call can be answered and give the reason therefor. Any holder who
shall refuse to accept a call anywhere in the corporate limits of the city at
any time when such holder has available cabs or who shall fail to or refuse to
give overall service shall be deemed a violator of this chapter and the
certificate granted shall be revoked at the discretion of the council. (Prior
code § 5.16.190)
5.40.200 Records and reports.
   The holder of each certificate shall keep accurate records of receipts from
operations, operating and all other expenses, capital expenditures and such
other operating information as may be required by the council. Every holder
shall maintain the records containing such information and other data required
by this chapter at a place readily accessible for examination by the city clerk
or city police department. (Prior code § 5.16.200)
5.40.210 Enforcement authority.
   The council may from time to time, by resolution, promulgate regulations for
the operation of taxicabs and for the maintenance of records. The chief of
police may from time to time promulgate regulations respecting the safety of
operations and maintenance of taxicabs. (Prior code § 5.16.210)
5.40.220 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
exceeding five hundred dollars or punished by imprisonment in the city or
county jail not exceeding six months or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior code § 5.16.220)
Chapter 5.44 FILMING ACTIVITIES
5.44.010 Purpose.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide rules governing the issuance of
permits for filming activities on location within the city. The intent of this
chapter is to ensure that still photographers and motion picture, televisions,
commercial and non-theatrical filming companies will be encouraged to use
locations for filming activities within the city so long as those activities
are consistent with the public safety and the protection of property. (Ord. 89-
20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.010)
5.44.020 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter the words and phrases defined in this section
shall mean as follows:
   "Applicant" means the person, organization, corporation, association or
other entity applying for a permit to film in the city.
   "City" means the city as a municipal corporation and existing pursuant to
the laws of the state.
   "Filming activity" means the staging, shooting, filming, videotaping,
photographing or other similar process conducted for the making of still
photographs, motion pictures, television programs, commercial and non-
theatrical film productions.
   "Film development office" means the community development department or
office designated by the city council to coordinate filming and issue film
permits in the city.
   "Film permit" means written authorization from the city's representative
designated by the city council to conduct the filming activity described in the
permit.
   "Master fee schedule" means those fees, taxes and reimbursements for costs
and administrative policies adopted by the city council.
   "News purposes" means a filming activity conducted for the purpose of
reporting on persons, events or scenes which are in the news for newspapers,
television news and other news media.
   "Permittee" means the person, organization, corporation, association or
other entity issued a film permit under this policy.
   "Public street" means any street, right-of-way, public trail, bikeway or
road maintained by the city and located within the city limits.
   "Still photography" means all activity attendant to staging or shooting
commercial still photographs.
   "Student filming activity" means filming activity conducted to fulfill a
course requirement by a student enrolled at a public or private school.
   "Studio" means a fixed place of business where filming activities are
regularly conducted upon the premises. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code
§ 8.44.020)
5.44.030 Permit required.
   A.   It is unlawful to conduct a filming activity as defined in Section
5.44.020 within the city without first obtaining a film permit from the film
development office.
   B.   A permit issued by the film development office for the purpose of
filming on city-owned, leased or controlled real property or city streets. This
permit does not constitute or grant permission to use or occupy property not
owned, leased or controlled by the city. This permit must be in the possession
of the permittee at all times while on location in the city.
   C.   An applicant shall obtain the private property owner's permission,
consent, and/or lease for use of property not owned or controlled by the city.
(Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.030)
5.44.040 Permit exemptions.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any of the following
activities provided that the activity will not require the closure of a public
street, or substantially impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic thereon:
   A.   Filming activities conducted for news purposes as defined in Section
5.44.020;
   B.   Filming activities conducted at studios as defined in Section
5.44.020;
   C.   Filming activities conducted for use in a criminal investigation or
civil or criminal court proceeding;
   D.   Non-commercial filming activities conducted on private property solely
for private or family use;
   E.   Commercial still photography or staging thereof, when conducted to the
exclusion of any other filming activity as defined in Section
5.44.020 when the following conditions apply:
   1.   The still photography or staging thereof, will not be conducted on city
property,
   2.   The still photography or staging thereof, will not require the parking
of more than two motor vehicles on any public street within the city;
   F.   Filming activities conducted by or for the city. (Ord. 89-20 § 1
(part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.040)
5.44.050 Deadline for filing applications.
   A.   Applications for a film permit must be filed with the film development
office a minimum of fourteen (14) days in advance of the date the film activity
is to begin, except that those which include street closures, major stunts, or
pyrotechnics must be filed a minimum of thirty (30) days in advance of the
first day of filming.
   B.   No late applications will be processed by the city unless the film
development office determines that special circumstances exist relative to the
application which would have precluded its application on a timely basis.
   C.   Applicants are encouraged to submit applications at the earliest
advance date possible in order to facilitate coordination between city
departments.
   D.   Upon showing of good cause, the film development office shall consider
applications which are filed after the filing deadline if there is sufficient
time to process and investigate the application, and for city staff to prepare
for the filming activity. (Ord. O-2021- 003, § 14, 2021: Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part),
1989: prior code § 8.44.050)
5.44.060 Application form.
   The permit application shall be on a form furnished by the film development
office signed by the applicant or agent thereof. Such application shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
   B.   Name, address and twenty-four hour telephone number(s) of person in
charge of filming on location;
   C.   Filming location(s) dates and approximate daily call times of proposed
filming activity;
   D.   Description of scenes to be filmed, including details of any hazardous
filming activity employing firearms, explosives, the use of open flame, other
pyrotechnical effects, animals, stunts, filming of moving motor vehicles,
watercraft or aircraft;
   E.   Description of the types and number of motor vehicles which will be
parked on public streets, and description of any equipment to be placed on
public property;
   F.   Evidence of adequate insurance certification as stipulated by Section
5.44.110;
   G.   Such other information descriptions, diagrams, and technical
information as the film development office may require. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part),
1989: prior code § 8.44.060)
5.44.070 Permit approval or denial.
   A.   The application shall be approved or denied within two business days of
receipt of the application unless the proposed filming activity as described in
Section
5.44.050 requires extensive review by other city departments or other affected
agencies due to public health or welfare concerns or fire or traffic safety.
The film permit shall be approved by the film development office unless
determined from consideration of the application or other pertinent
information, that any of the following conditions exist:
   1.   The filming activity will substantially disrupt the use of a public
right-of-way or street at a time when it is usually subject to traffic
congestion, or interfere with the operation of emergency vehicles in the
proposed permit area;
   2.   The location of the filming activity will substantially interfere with
a right-of-way or street maintenance work, or a previously authorized
excavation permit;
   3.   The proposed permit location is on city property and the filming
activity will substantially interfere with other previously authorized
activities, contracts or safety of the public or employees while on city
property;
   4.   The proposed permit location is on city property and the filming
activity will substantially interfere with municipal functions or the scheduled
maintenance of city buildings or grounds;
   5.   The filming activity creates a substantial risk of injury to persons or
damage to property;
   6.   The applicant failed to complete the application after being requested
to do so, or the information contained in the application is found to be false
in any material detail;
   7.   The particular filming activity would violate federal, state or local
law, including licensing or permit requirements.
   B.   When the grounds for permit denial can be corrected by imposing
reasonable permit conditions, the film development office may impose such
conditions rather than denying the permit. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior
code § 8.44.070)
5.44.080 Permit conditions.
   The community development office may condition the issuance of a film permit
by imposing reasonable requirements concerning the time, place, manner and
duration of filming activities as referenced on the "terms and conditions"
attached to the film permit, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Requirements for the presence of employees of the city at the
applicant's expense, when required for the particular filming activity;
   B.   Requirements concerning posting of no-parking signs, placement of
traffic control devices and employment of traffic and crowd control monitors at
the applicant's expense;
   C.   Requirements concerning posting of the outer boundaries of the filming
activity, and providing advance notice to affected property owners, businesses
and tenants;
   D.   Requirements concerning the cleanup and restoration of public streets
and city property employed in the filming activity;
   E.   Restrictions concerning the use of city or other public agency employee
services, vehicles and other equipment in the filming activity;
   F.   Requirements that the applicant pay all fees, and obtain all permits
and licenses required for the filming activity under local, state and federal
laws;
   G.   Restrictions on the use of firearms, explosions and other noise-
creating or hazardous devices which disturb the peace;
   H.   Restrictions on the use of stunts involving pyrotechnics, open flame,
vehicle crashes or other hazardous materials;
   I.   Requirements concerning cover-up of police, fire and other official
uniforms worn by actors, when the actors are not on camera;
   J.   Restrictions concerning the use of city and other public agencies'
logos, insignias, badges or decals for filming purposes;
   K.   Restrictions on the locations and/or daily hours the filming activity
may be conducted within the city;
   L.   Requirements concerning the city's or other public agencies' receipt of
proper acknowledgment for any assistance provided in making the feature,
television or commercial productions;
   M.   Requirements concerning affirmative action and non-discriminatory
practices for employment. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.080)
5.44.090 Fees.
   A.   A schedule of fees for city services and use of city property shall be
in an amount as established by resolution of the city council and/or in
accordance with the master fee schedule.
   B.   The applicant shall pay all costs incurred by the city in providing
city employees to be present during filming activity. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part),
1989: prior code § 8.44.090)
5.44.100 Change in activity dates.
   Upon reasonable written notice by the permittee in advance of the filming
activity, the film development office is authorized to change the date for
which the film permit has been issued without requiring a new application or
permit. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.100)
5.44.110 Insurance required.
   The applicant for a film permit shall procure and maintain for the duration
of the film activity insurance in the forms, types and amount prescribed by the
city administrator. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.110)
5.44.120 Liability and indemnification of city.
   Prior to the issuance of the film permit, the permit applicant must agree in
writing to comply with the filming permit terms and conditions. (Ord. 89-20 § 1
(part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.120)
5.44.130 Duties of permittee.
   The permittee and all agents, employees and contractors of the permittee at
the filming activity site within the city shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   The permittee shall comply in writing with all terms and conditions of
the film permit;
   B.   The permittee shall not conduct a filming activity within the city not
authorized by the filming permit;
   C.   The permittee shall meet with and brief city staff as necessary to
ensure that the personnel assigned have a full understanding of the hazards and
city resources involved;
   D.   The permittee shall be responsible for ascertaining the full purpose(s)
of the permit conditions and ensuring that all film personnel are in
compliance;
   E.   The permittee shall comply with instructions made by the city's police
and fire department officer(s) assigned to police and ensure safety at the
filming activity site;
   F.   The permittee shall comply with instructions made by city employees
assigned to regulate the filming activity site;
   G.   The permittee shall clean and restore all city-owned property utilized
during the filming activity to the same condition as existed prior to the
filming activity;
   H.   The permittee shall comply with this chapter and all other policies and
ordinances of the city and state and federal law. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989:
prior code § 8.44.130)
5.44.140 Street closures.
   The applicant for a film permit may request that the city authorize a street
closure on the film permit application. A short-term encroachment permit shall
be granted by the city administrator, his designee or by the chief of police.
(Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.140)
5.44.150 Pyrotechnics.
   During the filming of any special effect or stunt requiring the use of
pyrotechnics or any material deemed hazardous, including, but not limited to,
fireworks, open flames or explosives, the applicant must obtain a fire permit
from the city fire department. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code §
8.44.150)
5.44.160 Permit revocation or suspension.
   A.   Permit Revocation. The film development office may revoke the film
permit if the permittee, or any agents, employees or contractors of the
permittee fail to comply with the requirements set forth in Section
5.44.130, or if the film development office determines after the permit is
issued that the permit application was false in any material detail.
   1.   Notice of the grounds for revocation of the film permit shall be
provided in writing by the film development office to the permit applicant or
person in charge at the location of the filming activity.
   2.   Appeals of the permit revocation shall be conducted in the manner
specified in Section
5.44.170.
   B.   Permit Suspension. The city police department officer assigned to
police the filming activity site may suspend the film permit when the filming
activity poses an immediate hazard to persons or property and the location
manager will not, or cannot, prevent the hazard after being instructed to do so
by the officer.
   1.   The grounds for the permit suspension shall be provided in writing by
the film development office to the permittee within one business day of the
suspension.
   2.   Appeals of the permit suspension shall be conducted in the manner
specified in Section
5.44.170. (Ord. 89-20 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.160)
5.44.170 Appeals.
   A.   The permit applicant or permittee may appeal a permit denial,
revocation, suspension, permit condition, insurance/fees requirement or the
film development office's decision not to waive a deadline set forth in the
policy. Such appeal shall be filed with the city administrator's office not
later than five business days after the date written notice of the decision is
made. Failure to file timely appeal shall result in a waiver to the right to
appeal. The appeal shall be heard by the city administrator or his/her
designee.
   B.   Appeals of the city administrator's decision may be made to the city
council in the manner described in Chapter 1.20 of this code. (Ord. 89-20 § 1
(part), 1989: prior code § 8.44.170)
       Title 6 ANIMALS
Chapter 6.02 COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
6.02.020 County animal control regulations adopted by reference.
   A.   Title 9: Animals of the San Luis Obispo County Code is hereby adopted
into the Municipal Code of the City of Pismo Beach by reference and
incorporated as though fully set forth herein.
   B.   In accordance with Section 50022.6 of the Government Code of the State
of California, at least one copy of Title 9: Animals of the San Luis Obispo
County Code shall be kept in the office of the City's enforcement officer for
as long as this ordinance remains in effect. (Ord. O-2025-001 § 2 (part), 2025)
Chapter 6.04 CITY ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
6.04.020 City animal control regulations.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.02.020, the City hereby reserves
the local animal control regulations set forth in this chapter. (Ord. O-2025-
001 § 2 (part), 2025)
6.04.040 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter:
   "City" shall mean the City of Pismo Beach.
   "Household pet" shall mean any animal normally kept for purposes of
companionship or amusement, as opposed to commercial purposes or for hobby
breeding. Household pets include, but are not limited to, cats, dogs, canaries,
parrots, fish, rodents, rabbits, turtles, lizards, and snakes. (Ord. O-2025-001
§ 2 (part), 2025)
6.04.060 Animal raising.
   With the exception of goats, the raising or keeping of animals is allowed
without a land use permit, subject to the standards of this section.
   A.   General standards.
   1.   Household pets. Household pets are generally exempt from this Chapter,
except that standards for cleanliness, restraint, and noise, and other
requirements set forth in this Subsection A. shall apply to the keeping of
animals considered to be household pets. Further, prohibited animals described
in Subsection B. shall not be considered household pets under any
circumstances.
   2.   Maintenance. Corrals, pens, feed areas, paddocks, stables, and
permanently fenced pasture are to be maintained free from litter, garbage and
the accumulation of manure.
   3.    Animal restraint and shelter. No person shall permit any animal to be
or remain during the nighttime secured by a stake or any other manner other
than by enclosing such animal in a pen, corral, or barn sufficient and adequate
to restrain such animal.
   4.    Overall animal density. Unless a larger number is allowed through
development plan approval, the maximum number of animals allowed on a single
site is the cumulative total of any two (2) animal densities set by Subsection
C. of this section.
   5.   Noise and other nuisances. No animal shall be kept which is noisy,
dangerous, or in some way prevents the full use and enjoyment of neighboring
properties.
   B.   The intentional raising or keeping of the following animals is
prohibited in the city:
   1.   Bees.
   2.   Hogs, pigs, and swine of any description.
   3.   Animals of the Mustelidae family, including but not limited to mink and
ferrets, and any other carnivorous animals of similar size at maturity.
   4.   Turkeys.
   5.   Lions, tigers, poisonous snakes, alligators, and other typically wild
animals able or likely to inflict serious physical injury or property damage.
   C.   The intentional raising or keeping of the following animals is
permitted under the following conditions:
   1.   Birds. Facilities for the raising of ten (10) or fewer domestic birds
or birds intended for sale in pet shops as a home occupation, excluding poultry
or game fowl, are allowed with no minimum site area. Domestic birds are defined
as canaries, parrots, and other birds which are small and tame.
   2.   Cattle and horses.
   a.   Minimum site area. One (1) acre;
   b.   Animal density. Maximum number of animals allowed is one (1) per acre;
   c.   Setbacks. Corrals and other animal enclosures shall be located at least
one hundred (100) feet from any residence other than that of the animal owner.
   3.   Game, fowl, poultry, and rabbits, including other non-carnivorous
animals of similar size, but not including turkeys.
   a.   Limitations. Except on parcels of two (2) acres or larger, where all
adjoining parcels are of equivalent size or larger, no male fowl or poultry may
be kept or raised in any residential zone;
   b.   Minimum site area. Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet;
   c.   Enclosure required. All game fowl, poultry, and rabbits shall be
contained in covered coops or pens, and not allowed to run free of a site;
   d.   Animal density. The number of game fowl and poultry is limited to a
ratio of one (1) mature animal per two thousand (2,000) square feet of lot
area. The maximum number of animals is twenty-five (25);
   e.   Setbacks. Animal enclosures shall be located a minimum of twenty-five
(25) feet from any residence on an adjoining lot, and seventy-five (75) feet if
more than five (5) game fowl or poultry are kept.
   4.   Sheep.
   a.   Minimum site area. One (1) acre;
   b.   Animal density. The number of animals allowed is four (4) per acre;
   c.   Setbacks. Animal enclosures shall be located a minimum of fifty (50)
feet from any residence on an adjoining lot.
   5.   Goats. With approval of a permit by the community development director,
goats may be kept or raised on private property subject to the following
requirements:
   a.   Minimum site area. The minimum lot size required for the keeping of
goats is nine thousand square (9,000) feet;
   b.   Animal density.
 
Number of Goats Minimum Lot Area Required
2               9,000 sq. ft. - 13,999 sq. ft.
3               14,000 sq. ft. - 18,999 sq. ft.
4               Greater than 19,000 sq. ft.
 
No more than four (4) goats shall be allowed on any lot within the city;
   c.   A permit for keeping or raising goats shall only be granted upon a
showing by the applicant that appropriate provisions have been made for
sanitation, care, caging, and odor control appropriate for the breed of goat
for which the permit is requested;
   d.   Setbacks. All accessory structures used for the purpose of housing or
keeping animals shall be set back a distance of at least ten (10) feet from a
property line;
   e.   No accessory building, structure or pen shall occupy any portion of a
front yard or side yard on a street.
   f.   Permit conditions. In addition to the general standards found in this
section and any conditions of permit approval deemed necessary by the community
development director, the following conditions shall apply to all permits for
keeping and raising goats on private property:
   i.   No goat(s) shall be allowed to devegetate an area so as to cause
erosion;
   ii.   Should goat feces accumulate and create an odor problem, the feces
shall be immediately cleaned up from the site;
   iii.   Goats shall be kept at least twenty-five (25) feet (measured in a
horizontal distance) from any open water drainage system;
   iv.   No permit shall be issued if another permit is in force within two
hundred (200) feet of any property boundary;
   v.   The guardian/owner of the goats or person in charge shall agree to hold
the city harmless from all liability and costs in the event of any damage,
injury, or accident caused by such goats, whether unintentional, intentional,
and/or negligent.
   g.   Review. Approval is granted for a one (1) year trial period and the
keeping or raising of goats on the subject property shall be reviewed by the
city's animal control officer, community development director or their designee
after the one (1) year trial period to determine if the permit allowing goats
should be continued, further conditioned, or revoked;
   h.   Notice. Owners and tenants of properties within three hundred (300)
feet of a site for which an application for permit to keep or raise goats has
been submitted shall be notified by mail at least ten (10) days before
community development director consideration of the permit request;
   i.   Appeal. In case an applicant or any other person is not satisfied with
the action of the community development director on a permit decision, the
person may appeal the decision in writing within ten (10) days to the city
council, subject to payment of an appeal fee which may be established by the
city council. An appeal must be filed with the city clerk in writing within ten
(10) days of the applicant being notified in writing of the community
development director's decision. If notice of the community development
director's decision is mailed, the applicant must file an appeal within fifteen
(15) days from the date of mailing of the decision. The city clerk shall set
the matter for hearing before the city council within forty-five (45) days of
receiving the written appeal. The city council shall deny the appeal and affirm
the decision of the community development director unless it finds the
community development director abused the director's discretion by being
arbitrary and capricious or the decision otherwise violates the law. If the
city council grants the appeal and overrules the decision of the community
development director, it shall make written findings and determinations
supporting its decision based upon the testimony and documents presented to it
at the hearing, and shall adopt its written findings and determination within
fourteen days (14) of the close of the hearing on the matter;
   j.   Weed abatement exempt. The short-term use of goats for weed abatement
purposes does not require permit approval and is not subject to the conditions
listed above.
   D.   Nonconforming keeping of animals. The keeping of types or numbers of
animals not allowed by Section 6.04.060 of this Code may be continued provided
that:
   1.   The number of animals existing on the effective date of Ordinance O-335
which originally enacted this title, to wit, April 25, 1984, is not to be
increased except as provided in Section 6.04.060;
   2.   New offspring of existing animals may be retained on-site until weaned,
after which the new animals are to be removed;
   3.   Deceased or relocated animals are not to be replaced;
   4.   Public Nuisances. Though this section provides for the keeping of
animals that are not in conformity with this section, such use may be declared
a public nuisance by the city council and abated as provided in the municipal
code, where the use is found by the city council to be dangerous or to prevent
the full use and enjoyment of neighboring properties. (Ord. O-2025-001 § 2
(part), 2025)
6.04.080 Dog leash law.
   A.   Any person owning and/or possessing a dog must keep the animal on a
leash not exceeding six (6) feet in length. Further, the leash must be held by
a person capable of controlling such dog.
   B.   Exceptions. A dog can be unleashed under any of the following
circumstances:
   1.   When the dog is on private property of the owner or of another who has
consented and is either:
   a.   Contained on the enclosed property of the owner or of another who has
consented; or
   b.   Is under control of a person who is in the presence of the dog; or
   2.   When the dog is assisting a peace officer who is engaged in law
enforcement duties; or
   3.   When the dog is in designated parks, as specified in a resolution of
the city council. (Ord. O-2025-001 § 2 (part), 2025)
6.04.100 Dogs prohibited on pier; exceptions.
   A.   Except as provided in Subsection B. of this Section, it is unlawful for
any person owning, having an interest in, harboring or having charge of the
care, custody, control or possession of any dog to cause or permit such dog to
be on the city pier.
   B.   The prohibition set forth in Subsection A. shall not apply to any dog
meeting the definition of a service dog under the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 (ADA), when such dog is accompanying a disabled person requiring
the assistance of such dog; or when such dog is receiving training by a person
licensed to train guide dogs. (Ord. O-2025-001 § 2 (part), 2025)
6.04.120 Law enforcement canines.
   Dogs used by or under the authority of the police department or other law
enforcement agency for law enforcement purposes shall be exempt from all
restrictions and prohibitions contained in this title. (Ord. O-2025-001 § 2
(part), 2025)
6.04.140 Feeding of birds adjacent to Pismo Creek and on Cypress Street
Bridge—Prohibited.
   A.   On the Cypress Street Bridge, or within one hundred (100) feet of the
bank of Pismo Creek, it is unlawful to:
   1.   Feed any pigeon, seagull, or any other bird;
   2.   Disperse any food material or other matter edible by pigeons, seagulls,
or and other any bird so as to make such material or matter available to
pigeons, seagulls, or other birds for ingestion; or
   3.   Permit any food or other matter edible by pigeons, seagulls, or any
other bird to remain on the ground after dispersing or dropping the same.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any public officer or
public employee in the performance of the officer's duties. (Ord. O-2025-001 §
2 (part), 2025)
Chapter 6.06 CONFLICTS AND PENALTIES
6.06.020 Conflicts.
   In the event the locally reserved animal control regulations set forth in
Chapter 6.04 are found to conflict with provisions of the San Luis Obispo
County Code as adopted by reference by Chapter 6.02, the locally reserved
regulations shall control. (Ord. O-2025-001 § 2 (part), 2025)
6.06.040 Penalties.
   A.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in San Luis Obispo County Code
Title 9, a violation of any provision of this Title shall constitute an
infraction for the first offense. Any subsequent violation occurring within six
(6) months after the first violation shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   B.   At the discretion of the city attorney, any violation identified as a
misdemeanor in this title may be prosecuted as an infraction. (Ord. O-2025-001
§ 2 (part), 2025)
Title 8 HEALTH AND SAFETY
Chapter 8.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS
8.04.010 Adoption of Fire Code.
   One document on file in City offices, marked and designated as the 2022
edition of the California Fire Code is hereby adopted, including chapters and
sections not adopted by agencies of the State of California, and including
appendices thereto, as the Fire Prevention Regulations of the City of Pismo
Beach. The provisions of such are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this Chapter except as modified in Chapter 8.08.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 2 (part), 2022)
8.04.020 Fire code official designated.
   The Fire Chief is hereby designated as the fire code official for the City
of Pismo Beach.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 2 (part), 2022)
8.04.030 Referenced codes and standards.
   Where other codes and standards are referred to in the code adopted in
Section 8.04.010, the following shall apply:
   A.   International Building Code shall mean California Building Code or
California Residential Code, as applicable.
   B.   International Plumbing Code shall mean California Plumbing Code.
   C.   International Fuel Gas Code shall mean California Plumbing Code.
   D.   International Mechanical Code shall mean California Mechanical Code.
   E.   NFPA 70 and National Electrical Code shall mean California Electrical
Code.
   F.   International Residential Code for One- and Two-family Dwellings shall
mean California Residential Code.
   G.   International Fire Code shall mean California Fire Code.
   H.   International Existing Building Code shall mean the California Existing
Building Code.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 2 (part), 2022)
8.04.040 Fire Hazard Severity Zones.
   A.   The City of Pismo Beach hereby designates the Fire Hazard Severity
Zones as recommended by the Office of the State Fire Marshal pursuant to
Government Code Section 51178, dated March 10, 2025, as the Fire Hazard
Severity Zones for the City of Pismo Beach.
   B.   The subject Fire Hazard Severity Zones are depicted on the map entitled
"Local Responsibility Area - Fire Hazard Severity Zones", which map is attached
to this Ordinance as Exhibit A, depicted in reduced form in Figure 1 below, and
on file in the office of the Pismo Beach City Clerk and the Pismo Beach Fire
Department. This map is hereby incorporated by reference as though fully set
forth herein.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6745.png]
 
(Ord. O-2025-004 § 2, 2025)
Chapter 8.08 FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
8.08.010 Amendments; California Fire Code.
   The California Fire Code adopted in Section
8.04.010 is modified, amended and/or supplemented as follows:
   A.   Delete Appendices A, D, E, G, J, K, L, M, and N.
   B.   Amend Section 101.1 to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the California Fire
Code, hereinafter referred to as "this Code".
   C.   Amend Section 102.3 to read as follows:
      102.3 Change of use or occupancy. A change of occupancy in a building or
structure shall not be made unless such building or structure is made to comply
with this code, the California Building Code and the California Existing
Building Code.
      Exception: Where approved by the building official and the fire code
official, a change of use or occupancy shall be permitted without complying
with all requirements of this code, the California Building Code and the
California Existing Building Code, provided that the new or proposed use or
occupancy is less hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use
or occupancy.
   D.   Amend Section 103.1 to read as follows:
      103.1 General. The bureau of fire prevention is established within the
jurisdiction under the direction of the fire code official. The function of the
bureau shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this code.
   E.   Add Section 103.3.1 to read as follows:
      103.3.1 Fire prevention bureau personnel and police. The chief of the
fire department and other members of the California Department of Forestry and
Fire Protection/Pismo Beach Fire Department designated by the chief of the fire
department have the authority of peace officers or public officers pursuant to
California Penal Code sections 830.2(g), 830.7(d) and 836.5(a) in performing
their duties under the California Fire Code.
   F.   Add Section 104.5.1 to read as follows:
      104.5.1 Citations. The fire code official, or duly authorized agent, is
granted the authority as provided in Section 836.5(a) of the California Penal
Code to issue citations for violations of this chapter.
   G.   Amend Section 105.3.3 to read as follows:
      105.3.3 Occupancy and use prohibited before approval. The building or
structure shall not be occupied prior to the fire code official issuing a
permit and conducting associated inspections indicating that applicable
provisions of this code have been met. No appliance, device, equipment, or
system shall be operated or used until the installation has been approved and
permitted by the fire code official and all applicable provisions of this code
have been met. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant or contractor or
both to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection
purposes.
   H.   Add Section 105.6.52 to read as follows:
      105.6.52 Commercial barbecue pits. All commercial barbecues shall comply
with the requirements set forth in
Chapter 8.36 of the Municipal Code.
   I.   Amend Section 109.1 to read as follows:
      109.1 Board of appeals established. In order to hear and decide appeals
of orders, decisions or determinations made by the fire code official relative
to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is
hereby created a board of appeals. The City Manager shall provide staff
services for the board. The board of appeals shall be appointed on an "as
needed" basis by the City Council and shall hold office at its pleasure. The
fire code official shall be an ex officio member of said board but shall have
no vote on any matter before the board. The board shall adopt rules of
procedure for conducting its business, and shall render all decisions and
findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the fire code
official. The fee for appeals shall be consistent with the fees established by
the City Council.
   J.   Amend Section 110.4 to read as follows:
      110.4 Violation penalties. Any person who violates a provision of this
code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects,
constructs, alters, or repairs a building or structure in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code and from which
no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the board of appeals within the time fixed herein,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and is subject to the penalty as provided for
in
Chapter 1.20 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time and, when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   K.   Amend Section 112.4 to read as follows:
      112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to the penalties and code enforcement procedures set forth in
Chapters 1.20,
1.24 and
1.28 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
   L.   Amend Section 405.7 to read as follows:
      405.7 Initiation. Where a fire alarm system is provided, emergency
evacuation drills shall be initiated by activating the fire alarm system. Prior
to initiating an alarm, the person initiating the alarm shall contact the fire
alarm monitoring company and advise the company's dispatcher of the fire drill.
In cases where the fire alarm system is not monitored by a central station,
notification shall be provided to the fire department dispatch center.
   M.   Add Section 503.1.2.1 to read as follows:
      503.1.2.1 Maximum dead-end road lengths. The maximum length of dead-end
road, including all dead-end roads accessed from that dead-end road, shall not
exceed 500 feet (152 m).
   N.   Amend Section 503.2.7 to read as follows:
      503.2.7 Grade. The grade of the fire apparatus access road shall not
exceed 16% without approval of the fire code official.
   O.   Amend Section 504.3 to read as follows:
      504.3 Stairway access to roof. New buildings two or more stories above
grade plane, except those with a roof slope greater than four units vertical in
12 units horizontal (33.3-percent slope), shall be provided with a stairway to
the roof or other access to the roof for emergency personnel approved by the
fire code official. Stairway access to the roof shall be in accordance with
Section 1011.2. Such stairway or other approved access shall be marked at
street and floor levels with a sign indicating that the stairway or access
continues to the roof. Where roofs are used for roof gardens or for other
purposes, stairways shall be provided as required for such occupancy
classification.
   P.   Amend Section 505.1 and add Section 505.1.1 to read as follows:
      505.1 Address identification. New and existing buildings shall be
provided with approved address identification. The address identification shall
be legible and placed in apposition that is visible from the street or road
fronting the property. Address identification characters shall contrast with
their background. Numbers shall not be spelled out. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numbers or alphabetical letters. Each character shall be not less than 6
inches (152.4 mm) high for residential buildings and 8 inches (203.2 mm) for
non-residential buildings, with a minimum stroke of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm), unless
otherwise required to be greater in height or of reflective material as
determined by the fire code official during the jurisdiction's development
review process for a specific project. Where required by the fire code
official, address numbers shall be provided in additional approved locations to
facilitate emergency response. Where access is by means of a private road and
the building cannot be viewed from the public way, a monument, pole other sign
or means shall be used to identify the structure. Address identification shall
be maintained.
      505.1.1 Directories. When required by the fire code official, complexes
with multiple buildings may be required to provide directories, premises maps
and directional signs. The scale, design and location of directory signs shall
be approved by the fire code official and may be required to be illuminated.
   Q.   Amend Section 507.5.1 to read as follows:
      507.5.1 Where required. Where a portion of the facility or building
hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction is more than 400
feet (122 m) from a hydrant on a fire apparatus access road, as measured by an
approved route around the exterior of the facility or building, on-site fire
hydrants and mains shall be provided where required by the fire code official.
      Exception: For buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section R313 of the California
Residential Code or Section 903 of the California Building Code and this code,
as amended, the distance requirement shall be not more than 600 feet (183 m).
   R.   Amend Section 603.1.4 to read as follows:
      603.1.4 Fuel oil. The grade of fuel oil used in a burner shall be that
for which the burner is approved and as stipulated by the burner manufacturer.
Oil containing gasoline shall not be used.
   S.   Amend Section 603.9 to read as follows:
      603.9 Gas meters. Above-ground gas meters, regulators and piping subject
to damage shall be protected by a barrier complying with Section 312 or
otherwise protected in an approved manner. Gas meters shall be permanently
marked identifying the building or system served.
   T.   Delete Sections 903.2 through 903.2.11.3. Add new Sections 903.2 and
903.2.1 through 903.2.11.3 to read as follows:
      903.2 Where required. An approved automatic fire sprinkler system shall
be installed:
   1.   Throughout new buildings.
      Exceptions:
      1.   A single-story building that contains any occupancy other than Group
R, H or I where floor area does not exceed 1000 square feet (92.9 m2).
      2.   A building containing a Group R, Division 3 occupancy not more than
three stories above grade plane in height shall comply with the automatic fire
sprinkler system requirements of Section R313 of the California Residential
Code.
      3.   A building that contains only a Group A, Division 5 occupancy.
Notwithstanding the foregoing exception, concession stands, retail areas, press
boxes and other accessory use areas in excess of 1,000 square feet (93 m2)
shall be provided with an automatic fire sprinkler system.
   2.   Throughout existing and new sections of an existing building where
floor area is increased by 1000 square feet (92.9 m2) or where the floor area
of a room or rooms altered exceeds fifty (50) percent of the existing building
floor area. Increase in floor area and area of alterations shall be cumulative
from January 1, 2008, with each issuance of a building permit, regardless of
any change of ownership.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Alterations limited to replacement of exterior coverings, windows,
roofing, electrical services, sewer laterals, retaining walls, and routine
plumbing, electrical and mechanical repairs.
      2.   A building containing a Group R, Division 3 occupancy not more than
three stories above grade plane in height shall comply with the automatic fire
sprinkler system requirements of Section R313 of the California Residential
Code.
   3.   Throughout existing and new sections of an existing building where an
additional story is added.
         Exception: A building that contains a Group R, Division 3 occupancy
that will not be more than three stories above grade plane in height shall
comply with the automatic fire sprinkler system requirements of Section R313 of
the California Residential Code.
   4.   In additions to existing buildings equipped with an automatic fire
sprinkler system.
   5.   Throughout existing and new sections of an existing building where
there is an occupancy classification change resulting in a higher hazard as
determined by Table 903.2(5).
   Table 903.2(5)
   Hazard Categories
 
Relative Hazard    Occupancy Classifications
1 (Highest Hazard) H
2                  I-2, I-3, I-4
3                  A, E, I-1, M, R-1, R-2, R-4
4                  B, F-1, R-3, S-1
5 (Lowest Hazard)  F-2, S-2, U
 
   6.   In buildings, or portions thereof, where cellulose nitrate film or
pyroxylin plastics are manufactured, stored or handled in quantities.
   7.   Throughout a manufactured home, multi-family manufactured home,
commercial coach, or mobile home.
      Exceptions:
      1.   A commercial coach where floor area does not exceed 1,000 square
feet (92 m2).
      2.   A temporary commercial coach not equipped with automatic fire
sprinklers.
      3.   A mobile home constructed before March 13, 2011 and not equipped
with automatic fire sprinklers.
   For the purpose of requiring the automatic fire sprinkler systems specified
in this chapter, the floor area within the surrounding exterior walls shall be
considered as one building. For the purpose of calculating square footage for
the application of fire sprinkler requirements and fire flow requirements, the
floor area shall be as defined by Floor Area Gross found in Section 202 of this
code.
   903.2.1 through 903.2.11.3 not used. Text continues with Section 903.2.11.4.
   U.   Add Section 903.3.5.3 to read:
      903.3.5.3 Minimum water supply. The minimum water supply for an automatic
residential fire sprinkler system designed in accordance with Section R313 of
the California Residential Code or NFPA 13D shall be not less than a 1-inch
nominal pipe size for the service lateral from the water main to the water
meter location and not less than a 1-inch water meter.
   V.   Add Section 903.3.10 to read as follows:
      903.3.10 Exterior locations. Automatic fire sprinklers installed at
exterior locations shall be approved corrosion-resistant devices.
   W.   Amend Section 905.3.1, with all Exceptions to remain unmodified, to
read as follows:
      905.3.1 Building height and area. In other than Group R-3 and R-3.1
occupancies, Class III standpipe systems shall be installed throughout at each
floor where any of the following occur:
   1.   Buildings where the floor level of the highest story is located more
than 30 feet (9144 mm) above the lowest level of the fire department vehicle
access.
   2.   Buildings where the floor level of the lowest story is located more
than 30 feet (9144 mm) below the highest level of fire department vehicle
access.
   3.   Buildings that are two or more stories below the highest level of fire
department vehicle access.
   4.   A parking structure.
   A building that is greater than 20,000 square feet (1.858 m2) of floor area
and greater than 18 feet (5.49 m) in height shall have a dry or wet standpipe
system with a 2-½ inch (64 mm) outlet at the roof near the roof access.
Location of the outlet and the fire department connection to the standpipe
shall be labeled and approved by the fire code official.
   X.   Amend Section 907.6.6 to read as follows:
      907.6.6 Monitoring. Fire alarm systems required by this chapter or by the
California Building Code shall be monitored by an approved central station
service listed by Underwriters Laboratory for receiving fire alarms in
accordance with NFPA 72 and this section. The central station shall contact and
notify the police/ fire dispatch center immediately on notification of an alarm
and prior to making contact with the protected premises.
      Exceptions: Monitoring by a central station is not required for:
      1.   Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms required by Section
907.2.11.
      2.   Group I-3 occupancies shall be monitored in accordance with Section
907.2.6.3.
      3.   Automatic sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings.
   Y.   Amend Section 2306.2.3 to read as follows:
      2306.2.3 Above-ground tanks located outside, above grade. Above-ground
tanks shall not be used for the storage and dispensing of Class I, II, or III
liquid motor fuels except when approved by the fire code official and in
accordance with this Section, Section 5704.2.7 and Sections 5704.2.9.6 through
5704.2.9.6.3 and the stored fuels will not be offered for resale.
   1.   Above-ground tanks used for outside, above-grade storage of Class I
liquids shall be listed and labeled as protected above-ground tanks in
accordance with UL2085 and shall be in accordance with Chapter 57. Such tanks
shall be located in accordance with Table 2306.2.3.
   2.   Above-ground tanks used for outside, above-grade storage of Class II or
IIIA liquids shall be listed and labeled as protected above-ground tanks in
accordance with UL2085 and shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 57.
Tank locations shall be in accordance with Table 2306.2.3.
   3.   Tanks containing fuels shall not exceed 8,000 gallons (30 274 L) in
individual capacity or 16,000 gallons (60 549 L) in aggregate capacity.
Installations with the maximum allowable aggregate capacity shall be separated
from other such installations by not less than 100 feet (30 480 mm).
   4.   Tanks located at farms, construction projects, or rural areas shall
comply with Section 5706.2.
   5.   Above-ground tanks used for outside storage of Class IIIB liquid motor
fuel shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 142 or shall be listed
and labeled as protected above-ground tanks in accordance with UL 2085 and
shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 57. Tank locations shall be in
accordance with Table 2306.2.3.
   Z.   Amend Section 5504.3 to read as follows:
      5504.3 Outdoor storage. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in
stationary containers outside of buildings is prohibited, except when permitted
by the City and approved by the fire code official. Where outdoor storage of
cryogenic fluids is allowed, containers of cryogenic fluids shall not be
located within an area surrounded by a dike and containing other hazardous
materials and shall be in accordance with Sections 5504.3.1 through
5504.3.1.2.3.
   AA.   Amend Section 5601.1.3 to read as follows:
      5601.1.3 Fireworks prohibited. The possession, manufacture, storage,
sale, handling and use of fireworks, including without limitation, "Safe and
Sane" fireworks, are prohibited.
      Exception: Use and handling of fireworks for professional display in
accordance with Title 19, California Code of Regulations, Chapter 6 and with a
written waiver from the Fire Code Official approving the public display.
      5601.1.3.1 Seizure of Fireworks. The fire code official shall have the
authority to seize, take and remove fireworks stored, sold, offered for sale,
used or handled in violation of the provisions of Title 19, California Code of
Regulations, Chapter 6 and California Health and Safety Code, Chapter 9.
   BB.   Amend Sections 5704.2.9.6 and 5704.2.9.6.1 to read as follows:
      5704.2.9.6 Above-ground tanks outside of buildings. Above-ground tanks
outside of buildings shall comply with Sections 5704.2.9.6.1 through
5704.2.9.6.3 and Section 2306.2.3.
      5704.2.9.6.1 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited. Storage
of Class I, Class II, and Class III liquids in unprotected above-ground tanks
outside of buildings is prohibited. Tanks containing fuels shall not exceed
8,000 gallons (30 274 L) in individual capacity or 16,000 gallons (60 549 L) in
aggregate capacity. Installations with the maximum allowable aggregate capacity
shall be separated from other such installations by not less than 100 feet (30
480 mm).
   CC.   Amend Section 5706.2.4.4 to read as follows:
      5706.2.4.4 Location where above-ground tanks are prohibited. The storage
of Class I liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited.
Class II and III liquids may be stored in approved above-ground containers for
the purpose of dispensing only at facilities complying to Section 5706.1 where
no sales to the public occur. Above-ground tanks containing Class II and Class
III liquids shall not exceed 2,000 gallons. Plans for the installation of
above-ground tanks shall be submitted to the fire code official approval and in
conformance with applicable codes and standards. When required, a Conditional
Use Permit shall be obtained from the City.
   DD.   Amend Section 6104.2 to read as follows:
      6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits. The installation of
any liquefied petroleum gas tank over 500 gallons (1 892 L) water capacity is
prohibited unless approved by the fire code official.
      Exception: In particular installations, this capacity limit shall be
determined by the fire code official, after consideration of special features
such as topographical conditions, nature of occupancy, proximity to buildings,
capacity of proposed LP-gas containers, degree of fire protection to be
provided and capabilities of the local fire department.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 2 (part), 2022)
Chapter 8.12 GARBAGE
8.12.010 Definitions.
   Words used in this chapter are defined as provided in this section:
   "City disposal site" means and refers to that certain tract of land which
the contract agent shall furnish and use as a place of depositing garbage,
rubbish and rubble.
   "Contract agent" means an agent or employee of the city, or any person with
whom the city shall have duly contracted under the terms set out in this
chapter, with amendments thereto, to collect, transport through the streets,
alleys or public ways of the city, and dispose of refuse, garbage, rubbish and
other solid waste produced within the limits of the city.
   "Garbage" means kitchen and table refuse, offal, swill, and also every
accumulation of animal and vegetable refuse, and other matter that attends the
preparation, consumption, decay or dealing in or storage of meats, fish, fowl,
birds, fruits, or vegetable. It shall also include crockery, bottles, tin
vessels, fireplace ashes, and all or any refuse, save and excepting as herein
defined as rubbish or rubble.
   "Incinerators" means fireproof receptacles approved by the director of
public works or fire chief, and used for disposing of combustible rubbish on
private premises.
   "Refuse" means garbage, rubbish or both.
   "Refuse collector," as used in this chapter, includes the same as defined
for the term "contract agent."
   "Rubbish" means all combustible and noncombustible waste matter, excepting
garbage ordinarily accumulating in and about residences, flats, buildings,
apartment houses, lodging houses, hotels, restaurants, eating houses, stores,
shops, offices and other public buildings. Among other things, it shall include
tree trimmings, grass cuttings, dead plants and weeds, but shall not include
rubble.
   "Rubble" means all debris from the construction, demolition or alteration of
buildings, earth, rocks or incinerator ashes, brick mortar, concrete and
similar solid material.
   "Solid waste" means all waste substances including garbage as well as
combustible and noncombustible wastes. (Prior code § 8.12.010)
8.12.020 Solid waste—Accumulations.
   No person shall deposit, keep, accumulate or permit any rubbish, rubble,
garbage or other solid waste to be deposited, kept or accumulated upon any lot
or parcel of land, or on any public or private place, street, lane, alley or
drive, unless the same shall be kept, deposited or allowed to accumulate as
provided in this chapter. (Prior code § 8.12.020)
8.12.030 Garbage—Accumulations.
   No person shall keep, accumulate or permit to be kept accumulated any
garbage upon any lot or parcel of land, or on any public or private place,
street, lane, alley or drive, unless the same shall be in metal or plastic
receptacles provided with handles; the receptacles shall have a capacity of not
less than five gallons and not to exceed sixty gallons, receptacles to be
provided with close-fitting metal or plastic lids or covers which shall be kept
closed at all times except when necessarily opened to permit garbage to be
taken therefrom or deposited therein, and shall be kept in a clean, neat,
sanitary condition at all times. Each receptacle, including its cover, shall
upon the outside be kept clean from accumulating grease or decomposing
material. (Prior code § 8.12.030)
8.12.040 Rubbish.
   No person shall keep or accumulate any rubbish or other solid waste unless
the same be kept in a suitable box or boxes, barrels or other suitable
receptacles to be kept on each of the premises, sufficient to hold the rubbish
which would ordinarily accumulate on such premises. (Prior code § 8.12.040)
8.12.050 Storage of garbage and rubbish containers.
   A.   Each garbage vessel, tank, or receptacle, and each rubbish container
provided by the owner, manager or person in possession, charge or control of
any restaurant, hospital, hotel, boarding house, cafe, cafeteria, and other
like eating places, apartment houses, and of butcher shops and green vegetable
stores, and every person occupying a dwelling or flat within the city, shall be
kept or placed in the manner following during the time for collection:
   1.   Where there is an alley, other than a blind alley, in the rear of the
premises, such vessel, tank, receptacle or rubbish container shall be placed on
the premises within five feet of the rear property line.
   2.   Where there is no alley, such vessel, tank, receptacle, or rubbish
container shall be placed on the premises within twenty feet of the rear of the
restaurant, cafe, cafeteria, hospital, hotel, boarding house, and other like
eating places, apartment houses, dwelling or flat, from which garbage or
rubbish is accumulated.
   B.   Containers which do not comply with the requirements as stipulated in
this section, or which deteriorate to the point where they do not comply will
be tagged by the contract agent and, if not replaced by the next regular
collection day, will be considered as rubbish and removed by the agent in the
same manner as any other rubbish. (Prior code § 8.12.050)
8.12.060 Solid waste and rubbish transportation.
   No solid waste or rubbish shall be removed and carried on and along the
streets and alleys of the city except that the same be carried, conveyed or
hauled in conveyances so constructed as to be absolutely dust-proof, and so
arranged as not to permit dust or other matter to shift through or fall upon
the streets and alleys. The contents of such conveyances must be further
protected so as to prevent the same from being blown upon the streets, alleys
and adjacent lands. (Prior code § 8.12.060)
8.12.070 Wet garbage transportation.
   No wet garbage shall be removed and carried on or along any street or alley
of the city except the same be transported in water-tight containers with
proper covers, so that the garbage shall not be offensive and every such
container shall be kept clean and the garbage shall be so loaded that none of
it shall fall, drop or spill to or on the ground, sidewalk or pavement. (Prior
code § 8.12.070)
8.12.080 Collection.
   All garbage or refuse of any kind, shall be removed by the city, its agent,
employees, or permittees or representatives, at least once every seven days,
unless otherwise directed by the director of public works. (Prior code §
8.12.080)
8.12.090 Director of public works—Duties.
   It shall be the duty of any collector engaged in or conducting the business
of collecting garbage or rubbish, by contract with the city or acting as its
agent, permittee, or representative, under this chapter, when directed by the
director of public works, to remove rubbish or garbage to which the attention
of the collector may be directed by the director of public works, and where the
garbage or rubbish is accumulated and thence removed, any and all the cost of
said removal of garbage or rubbish shall be collected in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Prior code § 8.12.090)
8.12.100 Collection mandatory.
   A.   Solid waste disposal service, subject to the limitations noted in this
chapter will be provided by the city through its contract agent and it shall be
mandatory for all places and premises in the city through its contract agent
and it shall be mandatory for all places and premises in the city in or on
which garbage or other solid waste is created, accumulated or produced to use
the city's collection service; provided, however, that there may be joint or
multiple use of solid waste containers, subject to conditions established by
the city.
   B.   For the purposes of establishing liability and responsibility for the
payment of the fees and charges hereinafter referred to, the party responsible
for payment for garbage service is deemed to be the person who has heretofore
applied or will hereafter apply for water service to each place or premise
within the city and all the fees and charges hereinafter referred to shall be
collected directly by the authorized contract agent of the city, unless
otherwise provided for in a written agreement by and between the contract agent
and the city.
   C.   When any party, by reason of special circumstances, is of the opinion
that the mandatory disposal service provisions prescribed herein are unjust or
inequitable as applied to a particular place and premise within the city, the
applicant may make application to the city administrator stating the special
circumstances, citing the provisions complained of, and requesting suspension
or modification of such provision or charges as applied to his place and
premises. The city administrator shall then forthwith cause an investigation of
the conditions upon which said application is based, and may take evidence in
regard thereto. If the city administrator finds that such provision or charges
are unjust or inequitable as applied to the applicant's place and premises
within the city, he may suspend or modify the provision or charge complained of
as applied to such place and premises, to be effective as of a date specified
and to continue during the period of the special circumstances so found. If the
city administrator finds that there is no basis for equitable relief to and for
the applicant as provided for herein, the applicant may appeal the city
administrator's findings to the city council who shall consider such appeal at
its earliest possible convenience. Upon the hearing of the appeal by the city
council said council shall adjudicate the propriety of equitable relief to and
for the applicant as provided for herein, with the decision of the city council
thereon being conclusive and final. (Prior code § 8.12.110)
8.12.110 Curbside recycling program.
   A curbside recycling program shall be conducted in the city on terms,
conditions and circumstances as determined by the council and set forth by
resolution. The contract agent shall provide upon request of any residential or
commercial customer, or account, baskets or other suitable containers for the
purpose of recycling glass, aluminum, plastics and newspaper (or other
materials that may later be identified) as part of the program. Any recyclable
material which is not biodegradable shall not be disposed of at a landfill in
the county unless it can be deposited in a separate area where it can be
removed later when the market for such material becomes economical. The
contract agent will provide to the city, upon request for rate adjustments or
contract review, independent audit and financial information including, but not
limited to, annual financial reports, federal and state tax reports, ownership,
titles of officers and directors with participation in salaries, bonuses and
for stock, depreciation schedules for equipment and other assets reflecting the
date of acquisition costs, scheduled period and method of depreciation. The
contract agent will provide to the city, annually, statistical information
regarding the type and quantity of recyclable material, its market and revenue
from sales of recyclable materials and other necessary information to evaluate
a cost effective source reduction recycling program. The contract agent's
curbside recycling program shall satisfy the recycling element of Assembly Bill
939 (SHER). (Ord. 90-06 § 1, 1990: prior code § 8.12.100)
8.12.120 Collection rates.
   A.   Unless otherwise authorized in a written agreement by and between the
contract agent and the city, the authorized contract agent of the city may
receive and collect from the occupant of such place and premises in the city,
for services rendered in the collection of garbage, refuse and rubbish matter
therefrom, fees and charges such as the council may from time to time provide
by resolution and/or within the agreement with the authorized contract agent.
   B.   If the fees and charges provided for as above described for the removal
of garbage, refuse and rubbish matter shall not be paid, the authorized
contract agent of the city shall be under no obligation to collect any garbage,
refuse or rubbish matter until the fees and charges are paid, but any firm,
person or corporation refusing to pay such fees and charges, who shall neglect
to remove the garbage, refuse and rubbish matter as in this chapter provided,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in Section 
8.12.330. (Prior code § 8.12.120)
8.12.130 Trucks.
   Every truck used in the collection and removal of garbage, or rubbish, shall
be kept well painted, clean inside and out, and in a prominent place on each
truck display the following sign with appropriate number:
   REFUSE SERVICE
   San Luis Obispo, California
   No._______ (Prior code § 8.12.130)
8.12.140 Burning or burying refuse.
   A.   No waste matter, combustible material or refuse shall be burned in the
open air within the city, except barbecue fires, and except burning either
conducted by or authorized by the fire chief.
   B.   No waste matter which shall, in burning, cause or create a dense or
offensive smoke, shall be burned upon any premises within the corporate limits
of the city, whether in an incinerator or not except as noted above.
   C.   No garbage, wet garbage, refuse or rubbish shall be disposed of by
burying the same underground, except that rubbish and refuse may be made use of
for the filling of low areas within the city when it is properly leveled and
covered with dirt and upon written permission of the director of public works.
(Prior code § 8.12.140)
8.12.150 Emergency removal of solid wastes.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the removal and hauling
by an unlicensed person of materials considered by the director of public works
to constitute a health menace of such nature as necessary to be ordered by
either of said officers to be promptly removed. (Prior code § 8.12.150)
8.12.160 Disposal by producer.
   A.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any
producer of refuse, garbage, or rubbish from personally hauling in producer's
vehicle, through the streets of the city and disposing of same at the city
disposal site, provided that such hauling and disposal shall at all times be
subject to the approval of the director of public works.
   B.   The person in charge of any vehicle used to haul refuse, garbage or
rubbish under the permission granted by the provisions of this section shall,
on request from the custodian of or person in charge at the city disposal site,
exhibit satisfactory evidence showing that such refuse, garbage, or rubbish
accumulated in, and was hauled from, the city, and that the producer thereof is
a resident of the city.
   C.   The permission granted by the provisions of this section shall not
include the right to haul and dispose of dead animals, the refuse from the
construction, demolition or alteration of buildings, old automobile bodies or
frames, nor any refuse or rubbish originating in a commercial establishment
where the quantity exceeds one cubic yard. (Prior code § 8.12.160)
8.12.170 Hauling certain wastes prohibited.
   No person, other than the contract agent, shall collect, remove or haul
solid wastes including but not limited to refuse or rubbish over the streets of
the city during such time as such contract agent has a contract with the city
for the collection and disposal of the same; provided, however, that this
section shall not apply to producer hauling as provided in Section
8.12.150, nor to persons who have a permit from the director of public works
for emergency removal of the same. (Prior code § 8.12.170)
8.12.180 Health regulations.
   The director of public works shall have power to establish rules and
regulations not inconsistent with this chapter governing the collection and
disposal of refuse, garbage, wet garbage or rubbish, provided that such rules
and regulations shall have as their purpose the enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter and the health and sanitary laws and ordinances in effect in
the city. (Prior code § 8.12.180)
8.12.190 Enforcement.
   A.   The director of public works and the police department are specifically
required to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and shall have the right to
enter any and all premises for the purpose of determining whether the
provisions of this chapter are being conformed with, and no person shall deny
or obstruct such entry.
   B.   No person shall in any manner interfere with the collection or disposal
of refuse, garbage or rubbish by any person authorized by license or contract
to collect and dispose of the same. (Prior code § 8.12.190)
8.12.200 Contract authorized—Bond of contractor.
   A.   A contract, exclusive or nonexclusive, for the collection and disposal
of solid waste may be granted by the city.
   B.   Such contract shall provide that the contractor shall collect and
dispose of the refuse, garbage and rubbish in the city in the manner in this
chapter provided, and shall not charge any amounts in excess of the rates
provided for in accordance with this chapter. The contractor shall be required
to furnish a cash or surety bond to the city in the sum of fifty thousand
dollars, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the contract and the
provisions of this chapter. Such contractor shall have the sole and exclusive
right, except as in this chapter otherwise provided, to collect all refuse,
garbage, and rubbish in the city and transport the same through the streets and
public ways of the city.
   C.   The contractor shall be required to dispose of all such refuse or
garbage and rubbish at a disposal site known and designated as a city disposal
site, which is to be provided for by the contractor, subject to the approval of
the county health officer and State Board of Health.
   D.   Such contract shall also require that the contractor procure for the
period covered by the proposed contract full workmen's compensation insurance
with an industrial carrier as defined by and in accordance with the provisions
of the Labor Code of the state.
   E.   Such a contract shall also require that said contractor carry public
liability insurance to the extent of one hundred thousand dollars for the death
or injury to one person, and two hundred thousand dollars for the death or
injury of more than one person, and property damage insurance to the extent of
twenty-five thousand dollars, upon each of the trucks or vehicles used by him
in carrying out the work called for in the contract; such insurance to cover
both the city and the refuse collector. A certificate showing that the
contractor has such insurance in full force and effect, that the city is an
additional named insured, and that the city will receive written notice at
least ten days prior to cancellation of any part of such insurance, must be
filed with the clerk of the city within ten days from the date of execution of
said contract. (Ord. 97-04 § 1, 1997; Ord. 91-03 § 1, 1991: prior code §
8.12.200)
8.12.210 Disputes.
   In all cases of disputes or complaints arising from or concerning the place
where the garbage, wet garbage, and rubbish receptacles shall be placed while
awaiting the removal of their contents, or concerning the cost of such removal,
the same shall be determined by the city council or the director of public
works, and such decision shall be final. (Prior code § 8.12.210)
8.12.220 Dumping on private or public premises prohibited.
   No person shall dump, deposit, keep or accumulate any brick, mortar or
debris incident to the construction of buildings or any other waste material
which, if thrown or deposited, tends to create a hazard to public health,
safety and welfare on any public or private place, street, lane, alley or
drive, except the same shall be kept, deposited or allowed to accumulate
temporarily during the period of actual construction on premises under
construction or alteration. (Prior code § 8.12.220)
8.12.230 Public containers.
   No person who is a local resident of the city shall utilize the public
garbage, refuse and rubbish containers placed for the utilization of the
general public on the beach areas and other public places within the city for
the disposal of his own personal household garbage, refuse and rubbish. (Prior
code § 8.12.230)
8.12.240 Owner to maintain premises.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall, at all times,
maintain the premises free of rubbish, garbage, refuse, mortar, debris or any
other waste material, except pursuant to a permit approved by the director of
public works for fill and compaction work, and provided that this section and
Section
8.12.210 shall not prohibit the storage of such waste materials in private
receptacles for collection. (Prior code § 8.12.240)
8.12.250 Depositing hand bills or advertising in vehicles prohibited.
   No person shall throw or deposit any hand bills or advertising matter in or
upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any
public place for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge, to the
receiver thereof, such hand bills or advertising matter to any occupant of a
vehicle who is willing to accept it. (Prior code § 8.12.250)
8.12.260 Storage of certain vehicles prohibited.
   Storage or parking of unlicensed vehicles or vehicles not in operating
condition, for any period in excess of thirty days, is prohibited. The owner or
person in control of any private property shall keep the premises free of any
such parked or stored vehicles except where permitted under city zoning
ordinance and pursuant to a valid city business license. (Prior code §
8.12.260)
8.12.270 Waste abatement—Notice to remove.
   The director of public works is authorized and empowered to notify the
owner, his agent, or person in control of any private premises within the city,
to dispose of waste matter prohibited by Sections
8.12.220 through
8.12.260. Such notice shall be given by posting the private premises and by
certified mail addressed to said owner, his agent, or such other person at his
last known address, or by personal service on the owner, agent, person in
control, or occupant of said property. (Prior code § 8.12.270)
8.12.280 Contents of notice.
   The notice shall describe the work to be done and shall state that if the
work is not commenced within five days after receipt of notice and diligently
prosecuted to completion without interruption, the director of public works
shall dispose of the litter and the cost thereof shall be a lien on the
property. The notice shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE TO REMOVE WASTE MATTER The owner of the property described as
follows: _____________commonly known as _____________ is hereby ordered to
properly dispose of the waste matter located on said property, to
wit, ________________ within five (5) days from the date hereof. If the
disposal of the waste matter herein indicated is not commenced and diligently
prosecuted to completion within the time fixed herein, the director of public
works of the city shall cause such disposal to be done, and the cost thereof,
including any incidental expenses, will be made a lien upon said property as
hereafter provided.
   Estimated Cost of Disposal $ ______________ Dated _______________
____________________ Director of Public Works City of Pismo Beach
(Prior code § 8.12.280)
8.12.290 Director of public works—Recordkeeping.
   The director of public works shall cause to be kept in his office a
permanent record containing:
   A.   A description of each parcel of property for which notice to dispose of
waste matter has been given;
   B.   The name of the owner, if known;
   C.   The date on which such notice was mailed and posted;
   D.   The charges incurred by the city in disposing of the waste matter, and
all incidental expenses in connection therewith; and
   E.   A brief summary of the work performed.
   Each such entry shall be made as soon as practicable after completion of
such act. (Prior code § 8.12.290)
8.12.300 Action upon noncompliance.
   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent so notified to
properly dispose of the waste matter within five days after notice has been
given as provided in this chapter, or within ten days after the date of mailing
such notice in the event the post office department is unable to make delivery
thereof, provided the same was properly addressed to the last known address of
such owner or agent, the director of public works is authorized and empowered
to pay for the disposal of such waste matter out of the city funds or to order
its disposal by city forces. The director of public works and his authorized
representatives, including any contractor with whom he contracts hereunder, and
assistants, employees, or agents of such contractor, are authorized to enter
upon said property for the purpose of disposing of the waste matter described
in the notice. Before the director of public works arrives, any property owner
may dispose of the waste matter at his own expense. (Prior code § 8.12.300)
8.12.310 Charge to owner.
   When the city has effected the removal of such waste matter or has paid for
its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest at the rate of six
percent per year from the date of the completion of the work, shall be charged
to the owner of such property and the owner, or his agent, shall be billed
therefor by mail, if not paid prior thereto. The bill shall apprise the owner
that failure to pay the bill will result in a lien. (Prior code § 8.12.310)
8.12.320 Recorded statement constitutes a lien.
   Where the full amount due the city is not paid by such owner within thirty
days after date of said billing by the director of public works, he shall cause
to be recorded with the city clerk a sworn or certified statement showing the
cost and expense incurred for the work, the date the work was done and the
location of the property on which said waste disposal work was done. The
recordation of such sworn or certified statement shall constitute a lien on the
property, and shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in
principal and interest, plus costs of court, if any, for collection, until
final payment has been made. Said costs and expenses shall be subject to a
delinquent penalty of ten percent in the event the same is not paid in full on
or before the date the amount due becomes a lien. Sworn or certified statements
recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence
that all legal formalities have been complied with and that the work has been
done properly and satisfactorily and shall be full notice to every person
concerned that the amount of the statement, plus interest and costs,
constitutes a charge against the property designated or described in the
statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law. The city
clerk shall record said lien. The remedy provided in this section shall not
constitute an election of remedies by the city. (Prior code § 8.12.320)
8.12.330 Violation—Penalty.
   Every person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Any violation of
this chapter which is committed and continues from day to day constitutes a
separate offense for each and every day during which such violation is
committed or continues. (Prior code § 8.12.330)
Chapter 8.13
MANDATORY ORGANIC WASTE DISPOSAL REDUCTION
8.13.010 Compliance with the SB 1383 and SB 1383 Regulations.
   Generators, commercial edible food generators, food recovery organizations,
food recovery services, haulers, and owners of facilities, operations, and
activities that recover organic waste are subject to the Short-lived Climate
Pollutant Reduction Act of 2016 ("Act") and Senate Bill 1383 Regulations. The
foregoing persons and entities shall fully comply with all applicable
requirements of the Act, SB 1383 Regulations, this chapter, and any collection
agreement in effect. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this
chapter and other provisions of this Code, the provisions of this chapter shall
control. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the SB 1383
Regulations and the provisions of this chapter, the SB 1383 Regulations shall
control.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.020 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms, phrases, and
their derivations have the meanings given herein. Terms that are not in this
section and defined elsewhere in this Code shall have the same meanings in this
chapter unless the context otherwise requires. In the event of a conflict
between a definition in the Code and a definition in 14 CCR Section 18982, the
definitions in Section 18982 shall control for the purposes of this chapter.
Additionally, for the purposes of this chapter, the definitions in 14 CCR
Section 18982 shall control for terms used in this chapter and not defined in
this Code. When consistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future tense, and words in the singular number include the plural
number. Unless otherwise specified herein, references to a statute or
regulation means that section, as amended, supplemented, superseded, and
replaced from time to time.
   "Blue container" has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(5) and
shall be used only for the purpose of storage and collection of source
separated recyclable materials. Notwithstanding the foregoing, functional
containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022 that are used for the storage and
collection of source separated recyclable materials and that do not comply with
the color requirements of 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(5) shall be deemed to be blue
containers and are not required to be replaced until the end of the useful life
of those containers or January 1, 2036, whichever is earlier.
   "CalRecycle" means California's Department of Resources Recycling and
Recovery, which is the department designated with responsibility for
developing, implementing, and enforcing SB 1383 Regulations on jurisdictions
(and others).
   "California Code of Regulations" or "CCR" means the State of California Code
of Regulations. CCR references in this chapter are preceded with a number that
refers to the relevant Title of the CCR (e.g., "14 CCR" refers to Title 14 of
CCR).
   "City" means the City of Pismo Beach.
   "Commercial business" or "commercial" means a firm, partnership,
proprietorship, joint-stock company, corporation, or association, whether for-
profit or nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility, or a multi-family
residential dwelling, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(6). A
residential multi-family dwelling that consists of fewer than five (5) units is
not a commercial business for purposes of implementing this chapter.
   "Commercial edible food generator" includes a tier one or a tier two
commercial edible food generator as defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(73) and
(a)(74). For the purposes of this definition, food recovery organizations and
food recovery services are not commercial edible food generators pursuant to 14
CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
   "Community composting" means any activity that composts green material,
agricultural material, food material, and vegetative food material, alone or in
combination, and the total amount of feedstock and compost on-site at any one
time does not exceed one hundred (100) cubic yards and seven hundred fifty
(750) square feet, as specified in 14 CCR Section 17855(a)(4); or, as otherwise
defined by 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(8).
   "Compliance review" means a review of records by the city to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   "Compost" means the product resulting from the controlled biological
decomposition of organic solid wastes that are source separated from the
municipal solid waste stream, or which are separated at a centralized facility
or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 17896.2(a)(4).
   "Compostable plastics" means plastic materials that meet the ASTM D6400
standard for compostability, or as otherwise described in 14 CCR Section
18984.1(a)(1)(A) or 18984.2(a)(1)(C).
   "Container contamination" or "contaminated container" means a container,
regardless of color, that contains prohibited container contaminants, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55).
   "Contract agent" means an agent or employee of the city, or any person,
business, or hauler with whom the city shall have duly contracted under a solid
waste collection agreement to collect, transport through the streets, alleys,
or public ways of the city, and dispose of solid waste produced within the
limits of the city, organized and operating under the laws of the State of
California and its officers, directors, employees, agents, companies, related-
parties, affiliates, subsidiaries, and subcontractors.
   "County Enforcement Official" means an agency enforcement official of San
Luis Obispo County.
   "Customer" means the person whom a contract agent submits its billing
invoice to and collects payment from for collection services provided to a
premises. The customer may be either the occupant or owner of the premises.
   "C&D" means construction and demolition debris.
   "Designee" means an entity that the city contracts with or otherwise
arranges to carry out any of the city responsibilities of this chapter as
authorized in 14 CCR Section 18981.2. A designee may be a government entity, a
hauler, a contract agent, a private entity, or a combination of those entities.
   "Edible food" means food intended for human consumption, or as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this chapter or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(18), "edible food" is not solid
waste if it is recovered and not discarded. Nothing in this chapter or in 14
CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 requires or authorizes the recovery of edible food
that does not meet the food safety requirements of the California Health and
Safety Code, including the California Retail Food Code.
   "Enforcement action" means an action of the city to address non-compliance
with this chapter including, but not limited to, issuing administrative
citations, fines, penalties, or using other remedies.
   "Enforcement official" means the city manager, city attorney, or other
executive in charge of an authorized designee(s) who is or are partially or
wholly responsible for enforcing this chapter, including, if applicable, the
County Enforcement Official.
   "Excluded waste" means hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious
waste, designated waste, volatile, corrosive, medical waste, infectious,
regulated radioactive waste, and toxic substances or material that facility
operator(s) receiving materials from the city and its generators, and/or a
contract agent reasonably believe(s) would, as a result of or upon acceptance,
transfer, processing, or disposal, be a violation of local, state, or federal
law, regulation, or ordinance, including: land use restrictions or conditions,
waste that cannot be disposed of in Class III landfills or accepted at the
facility by permit conditions, waste that in city's or its designee's
reasonable opinion would present a significant risk to human health or the
environment, cause a nuisance or otherwise create or expose city, or its
designee, to potential liability; but not including de minimis volumes or
concentrations of waste of a type and amount normally found in single-family or
multi-family solid waste after implementation of programs for the safe
collection, processing, recycling, treatment, and disposal of batteries and
paint in compliance with California Public Resources Code Sections 41500 and
41802. Excluded waste does not include used motor oil and filters when such
materials are defined as allowable materials for collection through the city's
collection programs and the generator has properly placed the materials for
collection pursuant to instructions provided by the city, a contract agent, or
the city's designee for collection services.
   "Food distributor" means a company that distributes food to entities
including, but not limited to, supermarkets and grocery stores, or as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(22).
   "Food facility" has the same meaning as in Health and Safety Code Section
113789.
   "Food recovery" means actions to collect and distribute food for human
consumption that otherwise would be disposed, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(24).
   "Food recovery organization" means an entity that engages in the collection
or receipt of edible food from commercial edible food generators and
distributes that edible food to the public for food recovery either directly or
through other entities or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(25),
including, but not limited to:
   1.   A food bank as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 113783;
   2.   A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in Health and Safety
Code Section 113841; and,
   3.   A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in Health and
Safety Code Section 113842.
   A food recovery organization is not a commercial edible food generator for
the purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter
12, pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
   "Food recovery service" means a person or entity that collects and
transports edible food from a commercial edible food generator to a food
recovery organization or other entities for food recovery, or as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(26). A food recovery service is not a
commercial edible food generator for the purposes of this chapter and
implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, pursuant to 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(7).
   "Food scraps" means all food such as, but not limited to, fruits,
vegetables, meat, poultry, seafood, shellfish, bones, rice, beans, pasta,
bread, cheese, and eggshells.
   "Food service provider" means an entity primarily engaged in providing food
services to institutional, governmental, commercial, or industrial locations of
others based on contractual arrangements with these types of organizations, or
as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(27).
   "Food-soiled paper" is compostable paper material that has come in contact
with food scraps or liquid, such as, but not limited to, compostable paper
plates, napkins, and pizza boxes.
   "Food waste" means food scraps, food-soiled paper, and compostable plastics.
   "Food waste self-hauler" means a self-hauler who generates and hauls,
utilizing their own employees and equipment, an average of one (1) cubic yard
or more per week, or six thousand five hundred (6,500) pounds or more per
quarter of their own food waste to a location or facility that is not owned and
operated by that self-hauler. Food waste self-haulers are a subset of self-
haulers.
   "Generator" means a person or entity that is responsible for the initial
creation of solid waste and with respect to organic waste, means a person or
entity that is responsible for the initial creation of organic waste, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(48).
   "Gray container" has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(28) and
shall be used only for the purpose of storage and collection of gray container
waste. Notwithstanding the foregoing, functional containers purchased prior to
January 1, 2022 that are used for the storage and collection of gray container
waste and that do not comply with the color requirements of 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(28) shall be deemed to be gray containers and are not required to be
replaced until the end of the useful life of those containers or January 1,
2036, whichever is earlier.
   "Gray container waste" means solid waste that is collected in a gray
container that is part of the city's three-container collection service that
prohibits the placement of organic waste, other than carpets and textiles, in
the gray container as specified in 14 CCR Sections 18984.1(a) and (b), or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 17402(a)(6.5).
   "Green container" has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(29) and
shall be used only for the purpose of storage and collection of source
separated green container organic waste. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
functional containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022 that are used for the
storage and collection of source separated green container organic waste and
that do not comply with the color requirements of 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(29)
shall be deemed to be green containers and are not required to be replaced
until the end of the useful life of those containers or January 1, 2036,
whichever is earlier.
   "Grocery store" means a store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned
food; dry goods; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish, and poultry;
and any area that is not separately owned within the store where the food is
prepared and served, including a bakery, deli, and meat and seafood
departments, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(30).
   "Hauler route" means the designated itinerary or sequence of stops for each
segment of the city's collection service area, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR Section 18982(a)(31.5).
   "Hazardous substance" means any of the following: (a) any substances
defined, regulated or listed (directly or by reference) as "hazardous
substances", "hazardous materials", "hazardous wastes", "toxic waste",
"pollutant", or "toxic substances", or similarly identified as hazardous to
human health or the environment, in or pursuant to: (i) the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980, 42 USC
§9601 et seq. (CERCLA); (ii) the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 USC
§1802, et seq.; (iii) the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 USC §6901
et seq.; (iv) the Clean Water Act, 33 USC §1251 et seq.; (v) California Health
and Safety Code §§25115-25117, 25249.8, 25281, and 25316; (vi) the Clean Air
Act, 42 USC §7901 et seq.; and, (vii) California Water Code §13050; (b) any
amendments, rules, or regulations promulgated thereunder to such enumerated
statutes or acts currently existing or hereafter enacted; and, (c) any other
hazardous or toxic substance, material, chemical, waste, or pollutant
identified as hazardous or toxic or regulated under any other applicable law
currently existing or hereinafter enacted, including, without limitation,
friable asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), petroleum, natural gas, and
synthetic fuel products, and by-products.
   "Hazardous waste" means all substances defined as hazardous waste, acutely
hazardous waste, or extremely hazardous waste by the State of California in
Health and Safety Code Sections 25110.02, 25115, and 25117 or in the future
amendments to or recodifications of such statutes or identified and listed as
solar panels from residential premises, and hazardous waste by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), pursuant to the Federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (42 USC §6901 et seq.), all future amendments
thereto, and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   "High diversion organic waste processing facility" means a facility that is
in compliance with the reporting requirements of 14 CCR Section 18815.5(d) and
meets or exceeds an annual average mixed waste organic content recovery rate of
fifty (50) percent between January 1, 2022 and December 31, 2024, and seventy-
five percent after January 1, 2025, as calculated pursuant to 14 CCR Section
18815.5(e) for organic waste received from the "mixed waste organic collection
stream" as defined in 14 CCR Section 17402(a)(11.5); or, as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(33).
   "Infectious waste" means (a) equipment, instruments, utensils, and other
fomites of a disposable nature from the rooms of patients who are suspected to
have or have been diagnosed as having a communicable disease and must,
therefore, be isolated as required by public health agencies; (b) laboratory
wastes, including pathological specimens (i.e., all tissues, specimens of blood
elements, excreta, and secretions obtained from patients or laboratory animals)
and disposable fomites (any substance that may harbor or transmit pathogenic
organisms) attendant thereto; and/or (c) surgical operating room pathologic
specimens, including recognizable anatomical parts, human tissue, anatomical
human remains, and disposable materials from hospitals, clinics, outpatient
areas, and emergency rooms, as defined in 14 CCR Section 17225.36.
   "Inspection" means a site visit where an enforcement official or the city's
designee reviews records, containers, and an entity's collection, handling,
recycling, or landfill disposal of organic waste or edible food handling to
determine if the entity is complying with requirements set forth in this
chapter, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(35).
   "Large event" means an event, including, but not limited to, a sporting
event or a flea market, that charges an admission price, or is operated by a
local agency, and serves an average of more than 2,000 individuals per day of
operation of the event, at a location that includes, but is not limited to, a
public, nonprofit, or privately owned park, parking lot, golf course, street
system, or other open space when being used for an event, or as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(38).
   "Large venue" means a permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves
an average of more than 2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility
per day of operation of the venue facility, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(39). For purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14
CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a venue facility includes, but is not limited to,
a public, nonprofit, or privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater,
arena, hall, amusement park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium,
airport, racetrack, horse track, performing arts center, fairground, museum,
theater, or other public attraction facility. For purposes of this chapter and
implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common ownership
or control that includes more than one large venue that is contiguous with
other large venues in the site, is a single large venue.
   "Local education agency" means a school district, charter school, or county
office of education that is not subject to the control of city or county
regulations related to solid waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(40).
   "Multi-family residential dwelling" or "multi-family" or "MFD" means of,
from, or pertaining to residential premises with five or more dwelling units
including such premises when combined in the same building with commercial
establishments, that receive centralized, shared, collection service for all
units on the premises which are billed to one customer at one address.
   "Non-compostable paper" includes but is not limited to paper that is coated
in a plastic material that will not break down in the composting process, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(41).
   "Non-organic recyclables" means non-putrescible and non-hazardous recyclable
wastes including, but not limited to, bottles, cans, metals, plastics, and
glass, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(43).
   "Notice of violation" means a notice that a violation has occurred that
includes a compliance date to avoid an action to seek penalties, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(45) or further explained in 14 CCR
Section 18995.4.
   "Occupant" means the person who occupies a premises.
   "Organic waste" means solid wastes containing material originated from
living organisms and their metabolic waste products, including but not limited
to food, green material, landscape and pruning waste, organic textiles and
carpets, lumber, wood, paper products, printing and writing paper, manure,
biosolids, digestate, and sludges or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
18982(a)(46). Biosolids and digestate are as defined by 14 CCR Section 18982
(a).
   "Owner" means the person(s) holding legal title to real property and/or any
improvements thereon and shall include the person(s) listed on the latest
equalized assessment roll of the County Assessor.
   "Paper products" include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies,
cartons, wrapping, packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes,
tissue, and toweling, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(51).
   "Printing and writing papers" include, but are not limited to, copy,
xerographic, watermark, cotton fiber, offset, forms, computer printout paper,
white wove envelopes, manila envelopes, book paper, note pads, writing tablets,
newsprint, and other uncoated writing papers, posters, index cards, calendars,
brochures, reports, magazines, and publications, or as otherwise defined in 14
CCR Section 18982(a)(54).
   "Premises" means and includes any land, building and/or structure, or
portion thereof, in the city where solid waste is produced, generated, or
accumulated. All structures on the same legal parcel, which are owned by the
same person shall be considered as one premises.
   "Prohibited container contaminants" means the following, unless otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55): (i) discarded materials placed in the
blue container that are not identified as acceptable source separated
recyclable materials for the city's blue container; (ii) non-organic waste and
any other discarded materials placed in the green container that are not
identified as acceptable source separated green container organic waste for the
city's green container including carpet, hazardous wood waste and non-
compostable paper; (iii) discarded materials placed in the gray container that
are acceptable source separated recyclable materials and/or source separated
green container organic waste to be placed in the city's blue container or
green container; and, (iv) excluded waste placed in any container, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55).
   "Recovery" means any activity or process described in 14 CCR Section 18983.1
(b), or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(49).
   "Recycled-content paper" means paper products and printing and writing paper
that consists of at least thirty (30) percent, by fiber weight, postconsumer
fiber, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(61).
   "Restaurant" means an establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of
food and drinks for on-premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(64).
   "Route review" means a visual Inspection of containers along a hauler route
for the purpose of determining container contamination and may include
mechanical inspection methods such as the use of cameras, or as otherwise
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(65).
   "SB 1383" means Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the California Governor
on September 19, 2016, which added Sections 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7, and
39730.8 to the Health and Safety Code, and added Chapter 13.1 (commencing with
Section 42652) to Part 3 of Division 30 of the Public Resources Code,
establishing methane emissions reduction targets in a statewide effort to
reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants as amended, supplemented,
superseded, and replaced from time to time.
   "SB 1383 Regulations" or "SB 1383 Regulatory" means the short-lived climate
pollutants: organic waste reduction regulations developed by CalRecycle and
adopted in 2020 that created 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, and amended
portions of 14 CCR and 27 CCR.
   "Self-haul" means to act as a self-hauler.
   "Self-hauler" means a person or entity, who, in compliance with all
applicable requirements of this chapter, hauls solid waste, organic waste or
recyclable materials they have generated to another person or entity, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(66). Self-hauler also includes a
landscaper, or a person who back-hauls waste. Back-haul means generating and
transporting recyclable materials or organic waste to a destination owned and
operated by the generator using the generator's own employees and equipment.
   "Service level" refers to the container size and the frequency of collection
service for a customer of a contract agent.
   "Single-family" means of, from, or pertaining to any premises with fewer
than five (5) dwelling units.
   "Solid waste" unless otherwise defined in Public Resources Code Section
40191 means all putrescible and non-putrescible solid, semisolid, and liquid
wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes, industrial
wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned vehicles and parts
thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances, dewatered, treated, or
chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not hazardous waste, manure, vegetable,
or animal solid and semisolid wastes, and other discarded solid and semisolid
wastes, with the exception that solid waste does not include any of the
following wastes:
   1.   Hazardous waste, as defined in the Public Resources Code Section 40141.
   2.   Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the Radiation Control Law,
commencing with Health and Safety Code Section 114960.
   3.   Medical waste regulated pursuant to the Medical Waste Management Act,
commencing with Health and Safety Code Section 117600. Untreated medical waste
shall not be disposed of in a solid waste landfill, as defined in Public
Resources Code Section 40195.1. Medical waste that has been treated and deemed
to be solid waste shall be regulated pursuant to Division 30 of the Public
Resources Code, commencing with Section 40000.
   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, solid waste may include de
minimis volumes or concentrations of waste of a type and amount normally found
in residential solid waste after implementation of programs for the safe
collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of household hazardous waste in
compliance with Public Resources Code Section 41500 and 41802 as may be amended
from time to time.
   "Source separated" means materials, including commingled recyclable
materials and organic waste, that have been separated or kept separate from the
solid waste stream, at the point of generation, for the purpose of additional
sorting or processing those materials for recycling or reuse in order to return
them to the economic mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or
reconstituted products, which meet the quality standards necessary to be used
in the marketplace, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 17402.5(b)(4).
For the purposes of the chapter, source separated shall include separation of
materials by the generator, property owner, property owner's employee, property
manager, or property manager's employee into different containers for the
purpose of collection such that source separated materials are separated from
solid waste for the purposes of collection and additional sorting or processing
of those materials.
   "Source separated blue container organic waste" means source separated
organic wastes that can be placed in a blue container that is limited to the
collection of those organic wastes and non-organic recyclables, as defined in
14 CCR Section 18984.1 (a)(43), or as otherwise defined by 14 CCR 17402(a)
(26.7) or specified in 14 CCR Sections 18984.1(a) and (b). Source separated
blue container organic waste includes paper products, printing and writing
paper, wood and dry lumber, and textiles unless otherwise specified by the
city, and excludes source separated green organic waste.
   "Source separated green container organic waste" means source separated
organic waste, including food waste, that can be placed in a green container
that is limited to the collection of that organic waste; or as otherwise
specified in 14 CCR 18984.1(a) and (b), and excludes source separated blue
container organic waste, carpets, non-compostable paper, and textiles.
   "Source separated recyclable materials" means source separated non-organic
recyclables and source separated blue container organic waste.
   "State" means the State of California.
   "Supermarket" means a full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual
sales of two million dollars ($2,000,000), or more, and which sells a line of
dry grocery, canned goods, or non-food items and some perishable items, or as
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(71).
   "Tier one commercial edible food generator" means a commercial edible food
generator that is one of the following, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(73):
   1.   Supermarket.
   2.   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.
   3.   Food service provider.
   4.   Food distributor.
   5.   Wholesale food vendor.
   "Tier two commercial edible food generator" means a commercial edible food
generator that is one of the following, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
Section 18982(a)(74):
   1.   Restaurant with two hundred fifty (250) or more seats, or a total
facility size equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   2.   Hotel with an on-site food facility and two hundred (200) or more
rooms.
   3.   Health facility with an on-site food facility and one hundred (100) or
more beds.
   4.   Large venue.
   5.   Large event.
   6.   A state agency with a cafeteria with two hundred fifty (250) or more
seats or total cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than five thousand
(5,000) square feet.
   7.   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
   "Ton" or "tonnage" means a unit of measure for weight equivalent to two
thousand (2,000) standard pounds where each pound contains sixteen (16) ounces.
   "Wholesale food vendor" means a business or establishment engaged in the
merchant wholesale distribution of food, where food (including fruits and
vegetables) is received, shipped, stored, prepared for distribution to a
retailer, warehouse, distributor, or other destination, or as otherwise defined
in 14 CCR Section 189852(a)(76).
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.030 Requirements for single-family premises.
   A.   Except generators of single-family premises that meet the self-hauler
requirements in Section
8.13.100, generators of single-family premises shall comply with the following
requirements:
   1.   Subscribe to and pay for city's three-container collection services of
gray container waste, source separated green container organic waste, and
source separated recyclable materials generated by the single-family premises
and comply with requirements of those services as described below in Section
8.13.030(A)(2). City and its designee(s) shall have the right to review the
number and size of a generator's containers to evaluate adequacy of capacity
provided for each type of collection service for proper separation of materials
and containment of materials. The generators of single-family premises shall
adjust their service level for their collection services as requested by the
city.
   2.   Participate in the city's three-container collection service(s) in the
manner described below.
   a.   Place source separated green container organic waste in the green
container; source separated recyclable materials in the blue container; and
gray container waste in the gray container.
   b.   Not place prohibited container contaminants in collection containers
and not place materials designated for the green containers or blue containers
in the gray containers.
   B.   Nothing in this section prohibits a generator of a single-family
premises from preventing or reducing waste generation, managing organic waste
on site, and/or using a community composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section
18984.9(c).
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.040 Requirements for multi-family premises.
   A.   Generators of multi-family premises shall provide or arrange for gray
container waste, source separated green container organic waste, and source
separated recyclable materials collection services consistent with this chapter
for employees, contractors, and tenants. Generators of multi-family premises
may receive waivers pursuant to Section
8.13.060 for some requirements of this section.
   B.   Except for generators of multi-family premises that meet the self-
hauler requirements in Section
8.13.100, including hauling services arranged through a landscaper, generators
of multi-family premises shall:
   1.   Subscribe to and pay for city's three-container collection services and
comply with requirements of those services for gray container waste, source
separated green container organic waste, and source separated recyclable
materials generated at the multi-family premises as further described below in
this section. City and its designee(s) shall have the right to review the
number and size of the multi-family premises' collection containers and
frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type
of collection service for proper separation of materials and containment of
materials. The generator of a multi-family premises shall adjust their service
level for their collection services as requested by the city or its designee.
   2.   Participate in the city's three-container collection service for
collection of gray container waste, source separated green container organic
waste and source separated recyclable materials in the manner described below.
   a.   Place source separated green container organic waste in the green
container; source separated recyclable materials in the blue container; and
gray container waste in the gray container.
   b.   Not place prohibited container contaminants in collection containers
and to not place materials designated for the green containers or blue
containers in the gray containers.
   3.   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size, and location of
collection containers with sufficient labels or colors for employees,
contractors, tenants, and customers, consistent with city's blue container,
green container, and gray container collection service or, if self-hauling,
consistent with the multi-family premises' approach to complying with self-
hauler requirements in Section
8.13.100.
   4.   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper sorting of
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials.
   5.   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14) days of
occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to keep
source separated green container organic waste and source separate recyclable
materials separate from each other and from gray container waste (when
applicable) and the location of containers and the rules governing their use at
each property.    
   6.   Provide or arrange access for city and/or its designee(s) to their
properties during all inspections conducted in accordance with this chapter to
confirm compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   7.   Accommodate and cooperate with the city's or the city's designee's
remote monitoring program for inspection of the contents of containers for
prohibited container contaminants, which may be implemented at a later date, to
evaluate generator's compliance. The remote monitoring program shall involve
installation of remote monitoring equipment on or in the blue containers, green
containers, and gray containers.
   8.   At the commercial business's option and subject to any approval
required from the city, implement a remote monitoring program for inspection of
the contents of its blue containers, green containers, and gray containers for
the purpose of monitoring the contents of containers to determine appropriate
levels of service and to identify prohibited container contaminants. Generators
may install remote monitoring devices on or in the blue containers, green
containers, and gray containers subject to written notification to or approval
by the city or its designee.
   C.   If the generator of a multi-family premises wants to self-haul, meet
the self-hauler requirements in Section
8.13.100.
   D.   Multi-family premises that generate two (2) cubic yards or more of
total solid waste per week (or other threshold defined by the state) that
arrange for gardening or landscaping services shall require any contract or
work agreement between the owner, occupant, or operator of a multi-family
premises and a gardening or landscaping service specify that the organic waste
generated by those services be managed in compliance with Chapter 12, Part 3,
Division 30 of the Public Resources Code.
   E.   Nothing in this section prohibits a generator of a multi-family
premises from preventing or reducing waste generation, managing organic waste
on site, or using a community composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section
18984.9(c).
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.050 Requirements for commercial businesses.
   A.   Generators of commercial businesses shall provide or arrange for gray
container waste, source separated green container organic waste, and source
separated recyclable materials collection services consistent with this chapter
and for employees, contractors, tenants, and customers. Generators of
commercial premises may receive waivers pursuant to Section
8.13.060 for some requirements of this section.
   B.   Except generators of commercial businesses that meet the self-hauler
requirements in Section
8.13.100, including hauling services arranged through a landscaper, generators
of commercial premises shall:
   1.   Subscribe to and pay for city's three-container collection services and
comply with requirements of those services for gray container waste, source
separated green container organic waste, and source separated recyclable
materials generated at the commercial premises as further described below in
this section. City and its designee(s) shall have the right to review the
number and size of a commercial premises' containers and frequency of
collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of
collection service for proper separation of materials and containment of
materials. The generator of the commercial business shall adjust their service
level for their collection services as requested by the city or its designee.
   2.   Participate in the city's three-container collection service for
collection of gray container waste, source separated green container organic
waste and source separated recyclable materials in the manner described below.
   a.   Place and/or direct its generators to place source separated green
container organic waste in the green container; source separated recyclable
materials in the blue container; and gray container waste in the gray
container.
   b.   Not place and/or direct its generators to not place prohibited
container contaminants in collection containers and to not place materials
designated for the green container or blue container in the gray containers.
   3.   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size, and location of
collection containers with sufficient labels or colors (conforming with
subsections (4)(A)) and (4)(B) below) for employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers, consistent with city's blue container, green container, and gray
container collection service or, if self-hauling, consistent with the
commercial premises' approach to complying with self-hauler requirements in
Section
8.13.100.
   4.   Provide containers for customers for the collection of source separated
recyclable materials and source separated green container organic waste in all
indoor and outdoor areas where disposal containers are provided for customers,
for materials generated by that commercial business. Such containers shall be
adjacent to disposal containers, visible and easily accessible. Such containers
do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a commercial business does not
generate any of the materials that would be collected in one type of container,
as demonstrated through an approved de minimis waiver per Section
8.13.060(A), then the generator of the commercial business does not have to
provide that particular container in all areas where gray containers are
provided for customers. Pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b), the containers
provided by the generator of the commercial business shall have either:
   a.   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided through
the collection service provided by city, with either lids conforming to the
color requirements or bodies conforming to the color requirements or both lids
and bodies conforming to color requirements. The generator of the commercial
business is not required to replace functional containers that do not comply
with the requirements of this subsection prior to whichever of the following
comes first: (i) the end of the useful life of those containers, or (ii)
January 1, 2036.
   b.   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or both,
indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials prohibited
in that container, or containers with imprinted text or graphic images that
indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials prohibited in the
container. Pursuant 14 CCR Section 18984.8, the container labeling requirements
are required on new containers commencing January 1, 2022.
   5.   Prohibit employees from placing materials in a container not designated
for those materials per the city's blue container, green container, and gray
container collection service or, if self-hauling, per the instructions of the
commercial business to support its compliance with self-hauler requirements in
Section
8.13.100.
   6.   Periodically inspect blue containers, green containers, and gray
containers for contamination and inform employees if containers are
contaminated and of the requirements to keep contaminants out of those
containers pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b)(3).
   7.   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper sorting of
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials.
   8.   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14) days of
occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to keep
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials separate from each other and from gray container waste (when
applicable) and the location of containers and the rules governing their use at
each property.
   9.   Provide or arrange access for city or its designee to their properties
during all inspections conducted in accordance with this chapter to confirm
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   10.   Accommodate and cooperate with the city's or the city designee's
remote monitoring program for inspection of the contents of containers for
prohibited container contaminants, which may be implemented at a later date, to
evaluate generator's compliance. The remote monitoring program shall involve
installation of remote monitoring equipment on or in the blue containers, green
containers, and gray containers.
   11.   At the commercial business's option and subject to any approval
required from the city, implement a remote monitoring program for inspection of
the contents of its blue containers, green containers, and gray containers for
the purpose of monitoring the contents of containers to determine appropriate
levels of service and to identify prohibited container contaminants. Generators
may install remote monitoring devices on or in the blue containers, green
containers, and gray containers subject to written notification to or approval
by the city or its designee.
   C.   If the generator of a commercial business wants to self-haul, meet the
self-hauler requirements in Section
8.13.100.
   D.   Commercial businesses that generate two (2) cubic yards or more of
total solid waste per week (or other threshold defined by the state) that
arrange for gardening or landscaping services shall require any contract or
work agreement between the owner, occupant, or operator of a commercial
business and a gardening or landscaping service specify that the organic waste
generated by those services be managed in compliance with Chapter 12, Part 3,
Division 30 of the Public Resources Code.
   E.   Nothing in this section prohibits a generator of a commercial business
from preventing or reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site,
or using a community composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c).
   F.   Generators of commercial businesses that are tier one or tier two
commercial edible food generators shall comply with Section
8.13.070.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.060 Waivers for generators.
   A.   De minimis waivers for multi-family premises and commercial premises.
The city, or the city's designee, at the city's discretion and in accordance
with 14 CCR Section 18984.11(a)(1), may waive a generator's obligation to
comply with some or all organic waste requirements of this chapter if the
generator of the commercial business or multi- family premises provides
documentation, or the city or the city's designee has evidence demonstrating,
that the commercial business or multi-family premises meets one of the
following criteria:
   1.   The commercial business's or multi-family premises' total solid waste
collection service is two (2) cubic yards or more per week and organic waste
subject to collection in a blue container or green container comprises less
than twenty (20) gallons per week per applicable material stream of the multi-
family premises' or commercial business's total waste; or,
   2.   The commercial business's or multi-family premises' total solid waste
collection service is less than two (2) cubic yards per week and organic waste
subject to collection in a blue container or green container comprises less
than ten (10) gallons per week per applicable material stream of the multi-
family premises' or commercial business's total waste.
   For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) above, the total solid waste
shall be the sum of weekly container capacity measured in cubic yards in the
gray container, blue container, and green container. Hauling through paper
shredding service providers or other incidental services may be considered in
granting a de minimis waiver.
   B.   Physical space waivers. The city, or the city's designee, at the city's
discretion and in accordance with 14 CCR Section 18984.11(a)(2), may waive a
commercial business's or multi-family premises' obligation to comply with some
or all of the source separated recyclable materials and/or organic waste
collection service requirements if the city or its designee has evidence from
its own staff, a contract agent, hauler, licensed architect, or licensed
engineer demonstrating that the business or premises lacks adequate space for
blue containers and/or green containers required for compliance with the source
separated recyclable materials and organic waste collection requirements of
Section
8.13.030,
8.13.040, or
8.13.050 as applicable.
   C.   Review and approval of waivers.
   1.   Generators of premises requesting waivers shall submit a completed
application form to the city, or the city's designee, for a waiver specifying
the waiver type requested, type(s) of collection services for which they are
requesting a waiver, the reason(s) for such waiver, and documentation
supporting such request. Generators of premises who so request a waiver shall
reapply to the city, or the city's designee, for a waiver upon the expiration
of the waiver period and shall submit any required documentation, and/or fees/
payments as required by the city. Failure to submit a completed application
shall equate to an automatic denial of said application.
   2.   Upon waiver approval, the city, or the city's designee, shall specify
the duration for which the waiver is valid.
   3.   A waiver holder shall notify city, or the city's designee, if
circumstances change such that such waiver holder may no longer qualify for the
waiver granted, in which case waiver will be rescinded.
   4.   Any waiver holder must cooperate with the city and/or the city's
designee for any on-site assessment of the appropriateness of the waiver.
   5.   The city, or the city's designee, shall revoke a waiver upon a
determination that any of the circumstances justifying a waiver are no longer
applicable.
   6.   If the city's designee does not approve a waiver application or revokes
a waiver, the city may review the decision by the designee, and if deemed
appropriate in the city's sole discretion, the city may approve or reinstate
the waiver. The city may also, after meeting and conferring with the designee,
direct the designee to approve the waiver application and/or reinstate the
waiver.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.070 Requirements for commercial edible food generators.
   A.   Tier one commercial edible food generators must comply with the
requirements of this section commencing January 1, 2022, and tier two
commercial edible food generators must comply with the requirements of this
section commencing January 1, 2024, pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.3.
   B.   Large venue or large event operators not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
this section, commencing January 1, 2024.
   C.   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
   1.   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that would
otherwise be disposed. Food that is donated shall be free from adulteration,
spoilage, and meet the food safety standards of the California Health and
Safety Code. Food cannot be donated if it is not in compliance with the food
safety standards of the California Health and Safety Code, including food that
is returned by a customer, has been served or sold and in the possession of a
consumer, or is the subject of a recall.
   2.   Contract with or enter into a written agreement with food recovery
organizations or food recovery services for: (i) the collection of edible food
for food recovery; or, (ii) acceptance of the edible food that the commercial
edible food generator self-hauls to the food recovery organization for food
recovery.
   3.   Not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being recovered
by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service.
   4.   Allow enforcement official or designee to access the premises and
review records pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.4.
   5.   Keep records that include the following information, or as otherwise
specified in 14 CCR Section 18991.4:
   a.   A list of each food recovery service or organization that collects or
receives its edible food pursuant to a contract or written agreement
established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b).
   b.   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under 14 CCR
Section 18991.3(b).
   c.   A record of the following information for each of those food recovery
services or food recovery organizations:
   i.   The name, address, and contact information of the food recovery service
or food recovery organization.
   ii.   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to the food
recovery service or food recovery organization.
   iii.   The established frequency that food will be collected or self-hauled.
   iv.   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
   6.   No later than January 31 of each year commencing no later than January
31, 2023 for tier one commercial edible food generators and January 31, 2025
for tier two commercial edible food generators, provide an annual food recovery
report to the city or its designee that includes the following information:
   a.   The amount, in pounds, of edible food donated to or recovered by a food
recovery service or food recovery organization annually; and,
   b.   The amount, in pounds, of edible food rejected by a food recovery
service or food recovery organization annually;
   c.   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under 14 CCR
Section 18991.3(b);
   d.   Any additional information required by the city or the city's designee.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or conflict with
the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of
2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and school food donation
guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017, commencing with Section 49580 of
the Education Code, and to amend Section 114079 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to food safety, as amended, supplemented, superseded, and replaced
from time to time.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.080 Requirements for food recovery organizations and services.
   A.   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food directly
from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written agreement
established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b), shall maintain the following
records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR Section 18991.5(a)(1):
   1.   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial edible
food generator from which the service collects edible food.
   2.   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each commercial
edible food generator per month.
   3.   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each food recovery
organization per month.
   4.   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
organization that the food recovery service transports edible food to for food
recovery.
   B.   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b), shall maintain the
following records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR Section 18991.5(a)(2):
   1.   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial edible
food generator from which the organization receives edible food.
   2.   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each commercial
edible food generator per month.
   3.   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
service that the organization receives edible food from for food recovery.
   C.   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services that have their
primary address physically located in the city and contract with or have
written agreements with one or more commercial edible food generators pursuant
to 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b) shall report to the city and the city's designee,
if applicable, the total pounds of edible food recovered in the previous
calendar year from the tier one and tier two commercial edible food generators
they have established a contract or written agreement with pursuant to 14 CCR
Section 18991.3(b). The annual report shall be submitted to the city and the
city's designee, if applicable, no later than January 31 of each year
commencing in January 2022.
   D.   In order to support edible food recovery capacity planning assessments
or other studies conducted by the city that provides solid waste collection
services, or its designated entity, food recovery services and food recovery
organizations operating in the city shall provide information and consultation
to the city and city's designee, if applicable, upon request, regarding
existing, or proposed new or expanded, food recovery capacity that could be
accessed by the city and its commercial edible food generators. A food recovery
service or food recovery organization contacted by the city and/or its designee
shall respond to such request for information within sixty (60) days, unless a
shorter timeframe is otherwise specified by the city.
   E.   Food recovery organizations and food recovery services that have their
primary address physically located in the city and contract with or have
written agreements with one or more commercial edible food generators shall
include language in all agreements with tier 1 and tier 2 edible food
generators located in the city identifying and describing the California Good
Samaritan Food Donation Act of 2017.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a food recovery organization or food
recovery service from refusing to accept edible food from a commercial edible
food generator.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.090 Requirements for haulers, facility operators, and community composting
operations.
   A.   Requirements for haulers. Haulers, including a contract agent,
providing residential, commercial, or industrial collection services to
generators within the city's boundaries shall meet the requirements and
standards of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 as a condition of approval of a
collection agreement or other authorization to collect organic waste and the
following requirements:
   1.   Through written notice to the city, identify the facilities to which
they will transport organic waste.
   2.   Comply with the applicable requirements of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter
12, Article 3.
   3.   Transport source separated recyclable materials and source separated
green container organic waste to a facility, operation, activity, or property
that recovers organic waste as defined in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12,
Article 2.
   4.   Obtain approval of the city pursuant to CCR Section 18988.1 and keep a
record of the documentation of its approval by the city.
   B.   Paragraph A. of this Section
8.13.090 is not applicable to a hauler that consistent with Article 1, Chapter
9, Part 2, Division 30, commencing with Section 41950 of the Public Resources
Code, is transporting source separated organic waste to a community composting
site or to a hauler that is lawfully transporting construction and demolition
debris ("C&D") in a manner that complies with 14 CCR Section 18989.1 and
applicable requirements of this Code.
   C.   Franchise hauler(s), including a contract agent, authorized to collect
organic waste shall comply with education, equipment, signage, container
labeling, container color, contamination monitoring, reporting, and other
requirements contained within its franchise agreement, permit, or other
agreement entered into with city.
   D.   Requirements for facility operators and community composting
operations.
   1.   Owners of facilities, operations, and activities located in the city's
boundaries that recover organic waste, including, but not limited to, compost
facilities, in-vessel digestion facilities, and publicly-owned treatment works
shall, upon city request, provide the city information regarding available and
potential new or expanded capacity at their facilities, operations, and
activities, including information about throughput and permitted capacity
necessary for planning purposes. Entities contacted by the city shall respond
within sixty (60) days.
   2.   Community composting operators with operations located in the city's
boundaries, upon city request, shall provide information to the city to support
organic waste capacity planning, including, but not limited to, an estimate of
the amount of organic waste anticipated to be handled at the community
composting operation. Entities contacted by the city shall respond within sixty
(60) days.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.100 Self-hauler requirements.
   A.   Self-haulers of organic waste shall comply with the requirements in 14
CCR Section 18988.3.
   B.   Every self-hauler shall source separate its recyclable materials and
organic waste (materials that city otherwise requires generators to separate
for collection in the city's three-container collection program) generated on-
site from solid waste in a manner consistent with 14 CCR Section 18984.1 and
the city's collection program and deliver their materials to facilities
described in subsection (C) below or shall haul its organic waste to a high
diversion organic waste processing facility as specified in 14 CCR Section
18984.3.
   C.   Self-haulers shall haul their source separated recyclable materials to
a facility that recovers those materials and shall haul their source separated
green container organic waste to a facility, operation, activity, or property
that processes or recovers source separated organic waste. Alternatively, self-
haulers may haul organic waste to a high diversion organic waste processing
facility.
   D.   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses or multi-family premises
shall keep records of the amount of organic waste delivered to each facility,
operation, activity, or property that processes or recovers organic waste.
These records shall be subject to review by the city and/or its designee(s).
The records shall include the following information:
   1.   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting the
waste.
   2.   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the
generator to each entity.
   3.   Notwithstanding subdivision (D)(1) and (D)(2), if the material is
transported to an entity that does not have scales on-site or employs scales
incapable of weighing the self-hauler's vehicle in a manner that allows it to
determine the weight of materials received, the self-hauler is not required to
record the weight of material but shall keep a record of the entities that
received the organic waste.
   E.   Self-haulers that are commercial businesses or multi-family premises
shall provide copies of records required in Section
8.13.100(D) to city if requested.
   F.   A generator of a single-family premises that self-hauls organic waste
is not required to record or report information in Section
8.13.100(D) and (E).
   G.   Pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18815.9, food waste self-haulers are
required to maintain records and report to CalRecycle information on the tons
of food waste self-hauled and the facilities or each use of such material. Food
waste self-haulers shall provide to the city on a quarterly basis copies of all
reports they are required to report to CalRecycle.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.110 Procurement requirements for direct service providers and vendors.
   Direct service providers to the city and all vendors providing paper
products and printing and writing papers must comply with the city's policy
regarding recovered organic waste product procurement, including recycled-
content paper procurement.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.120 Inspections and investigations.
   A.   City representatives or its designee are authorized to conduct
inspections and investigations, at random or otherwise, of any collection
container, collection vehicle loads, or transfer, processing, or disposal
facility for materials collected from generators, or source separated materials
to confirm compliance with this chapter by generators, commercial edible food
generators, a contract agent, haulers, self-haulers, food recovery services,
and food recovery organizations, subject to applicable laws. This section does
not allow the city or its designee to enter the interior of a private
residential property for inspection. For the purposes of inspecting commercial
business containers for compliance with this chapter, the city or the city's
designee may conduct container inspection for prohibited container
contaminants.
   B.   Entities regulated by this chapter shall provide or arrange for access
during all inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors)
and shall cooperate with the city's employee or representative or its designee
during such inspections and investigations. Such inspections and investigations
may include confirmation of proper placement of materials in containers,
inspection of edible food recovery activities, review of required records, or
other verification or inspection to confirm compliance with any other
requirement of this chapter. Failure of a generator to provide or arrange for:
1. access to an entity's premises; or 2. access to records for any inspection
or investigation is a violation of this chapter and may result in penalties
described in Section
8.13.130.
   C.   Any records obtained by a city or its designee during its inspections,
and other reviews shall be subject to the requirements and applicable
disclosure exemptions of the Public Records Act.
   D.   City representatives, or the city's designee, are authorized to conduct
any inspections, or other investigations as reasonably necessary to further the
goals of this chapter, subject to applicable laws.
   E.   City or its designee shall receive written complaints from persons
regarding an entity that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383
Regulations, including receipt of anonymous complaints.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
8.13.130 Enforcement.
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute grounds for
issuance of a notice of violation and assessment of a fine by an enforcement
official. Enforcement actions under this chapter include, but are not limited
to, issuance of an administrative citation and assessment of a fine. The city's
procedures on imposition of administrative fines as specified in Chapters
1.20,
1.24, and
1.28 of the city's municipal code are hereby incorporated in their entirety, as
modified from time to time, and shall govern the imposition, enforcement,
collection, and review of administrative citations issued to enforce this
chapter and any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter, except as
otherwise indicated in this chapter.
   B.   Process for enforcement.
   1.   City enforcement officials and/or designee will monitor compliance with
the chapter through compliance reviews, route reviews, investigation of
complaints, and an inspection program. Enforcement officials and/or their
designee may also monitor compliance with the chapter randomly. Section
8.13.120 establishes the city's right to conduct inspections and
investigations.
   2.   For incidences of prohibited container contaminants found in
containers, city or its designee will issue an informational notice of
contamination to any generator found to have prohibited container contaminants
in a container. Such notice will be provided via a cart tag or other
communication immediately upon identification of the prohibited container
contaminants or within fifteen (15) days after determining that a violation has
occurred. If the city or its designee observes prohibited container
contaminants in a generator's containers on more than two (2) consecutive
occasion(s), the city or the city's designee may assess contamination
processing fees or the city may assess contamination penalties on the
generator.
   3.   With the exception of violations of contamination of container
contents, city shall issue a notice of violation requiring compliance within
sixty (60) days of issuance of the notice.
   4.   Absent compliance by the respondent within the deadline set forth in
the notice of violation, city shall commence an action to impose penalties, via
an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to Chapter
1.24 and
1.28 of this Code.
   Notices shall be sent to "owner" at the official address of the owner
maintained by the County Assessor, or if no such address is available, to the
owner at the address of the multi-family premises or commercial premises,
depending upon available information.
   C.   Penalty amounts for types of violations. The penalty levels are as
follows, as prescribed by 14 CCR Section 18997.2 and any other applicable code
or regulation:
   1.   For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be one
hundred dollars ($100) per violation.
   2.   For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be two
hundred dollars ($200) per violation.
   3.   For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base penalty
shall be five hundred dollars ($500) per violation.
   D.   Compliance deadline extension considerations. City may extend the
compliance deadlines set forth in a notice of violation issued in accordance
with this section if it finds that there are extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the respondent that make compliance within the deadlines
impracticable, including the following:
   1.   Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, and other
emergencies or natural disasters;
   2.   Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government agency
approvals; or,
   3.   Deficiencies in organic waste recycling infrastructure or edible food
recovery capacity and the city is under a corrective action plan with
CalRecycle pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18996.2 due to those deficiencies.
   E.   Appeals process. Persons receiving an administrative citation
containing a penalty for an uncorrected violation may request a hearing to
appeal the citation pursuant to the procedures in Chapter 1.24 of this Code.
(Ord. O-2021-004 § 1 (part), 2021)
Chapter 8.14 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
8.14.010 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and phrases shall be
construed as set forth in this section, unless it is apparent from the context
that a different meaning is intended.
   "Enclosed" means all space between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on
three or more sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door- or passage-
ways) which extend from the floor to the ceiling, including all space therein
screened by partitions which do not extend to the ceiling or are not solid,
office landscaping, or similar structures.
   "Open air dining area" means any unenclosed area located on private or
public property made available to or customarily used by the general public
that is designed, established, or regularly used for consuming food and/or
beverages, or where food or beverages are served, whether or not for
compensation. This includes, without limitation, restaurants, restaurants at
hotels and private clubs, cafés, and coffee shops.
   "Place of employment" means any area under the control of a public or
private employer that employees normally frequent during the course of
employment, including, but not limited to, conference and class rooms, employee
cafeterias, employee lounges and restrooms, hallways, and work areas. A private
residence is not a place of employment unless it is used as a childcare or
health care facility.
   "Public place" shall mean any enclosed or unenclosed area to which the
public is invited or in which the public is permitted, including, but not
limited to, banks, educational facilities, health facilities, public
transportation and parking facilities, reception areas, restaurants, retail
food production and marketing establishments, retail service establishments,
retail stores, theaters, waiting rooms, and recreation or meeting rooms in
condominiums, apartments, housing developments and mobile home parks, to the
extent not otherwise governed by or exempted from California Labor Code Section
6404.5 and California Health and Safety Code Section 118875, et seq. A private
residence is not a "public place" unless it is used as a childcare or health
care facility.
   "Recreational area" means and includes any publicly owned or operated area
that is open to the general public for recreational purposes, regardless of any
fee or age requirement. The term "recreational area" includes, but is not
limited to, parks, piers, boardwalks, beaches, picnic areas, playgrounds, tot-
lot sandbox areas, sports fields, walking paths, gardens, hiking trails, bike
paths, parks or trails established by adverse uses, and parks on leased
property.
   "Service area" means any enclosed or unenclosed area where one or more
persons wait for, receive or exchange goods or services of any kind, including
without limitation lines or waiting areas for: (A) ATMs; (B) information
kiosks; (C) banks; (D) restaurants and other food service establishments; (E)
tickets and admission lines to a theater or other venue event; (F) car washes
and vehicle service establishments; (G) bus stops or taxi stands; and (H) valet
parking pick-up areas.
   "Smoke" or "smoking" means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any
lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated
tobacco, cannabis or other plant product intended for inhalation, whether
natural or synthetic, in any manner or in any form. "Smoking" includes the use
of a battery-powered or other electronic smoking device that creates an aerosol
or vapor, in any manner or in any form, or the use of any oral smoking device
for the purpose of circumventing the prohibition of smoking. "Cannabis" shall
have the same meaning as set forth in California Business and Professions Code
Section 26001, as that section may be amended from time to time.
   "Unenclosed" means a predominantly outdoor area that does not meet the
definition of "enclosed".
(Ord. O-2019-002 § 2 (part), 2019; Ord. 07-02 § 1 (part), 2007)
8.14.020 Smoking—Prohibited.
   A.   In addition to all places where smoking is prohibited under California
or federal law, no person shall smoke in or on, and smoking areas shall not be
established or designated in or on:
      1.   Open-air dining areas, or within twenty-five (25) feet of any open-
air dining area.
      2.   Within fifty (50) feet of any entrance, exit, operable window, or
air intake vent to any enclosed public place that is used as a health care
facility, licensed child or adult care facility, or senior center, or within
twenty-five (25) feet of any entrance, exit, operable window, or air intake
vent to any other enclosed public place. For purposes of this subsection,
entrance or exit shall mean an opening into an enclosed public place from a
contiguous street, sidewalk, walkway, or parking area, and "air intake vent"
shall mean an opening into an enclosed public place that draws in air from the
outside as part of a structural ventilation system.
      3.   Public places when being used for a public event, including, but not
limited to, farmers' markets, fairs, concerts, or other special events open to
the general public.
      4.   Recreational areas, or within twenty-five (25) feet of any
recreational area.
      5.   Service areas, or within twenty-five (25) feet of any service area.
      6.   Sidewalks on the following streets:
         a.   Any street in the Downtown Core Planning Area, to wit: that area
of the city southwest of United States Highway 101 from and including the
intersection of Dolliver and Price Streets on the northwest, to and including
Addie Street, as extended from the Pacific Ocean to United States Highway 101,
on the southeast.
         b.   Shell Beach Road.
         c.   Five Cities Drive.
      7.   Unenclosed places of employment.
   B.    No person shall dispose of smoking waste or place or maintain a
receptacle for smoking waste in an area where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter or other law, or within a distance of twenty-five (25) feet from an
area where smoking is prohibited.
   C.   A person shall not intimidate, threaten any reprisal, or effect any
reprisal, for the purpose of retaliating against another person who seeks to
attain compliance with this chapter.
   D.   This section shall not apply to smoke generated by portable or fixed
barbeques, nor smoke generated by the combustion of material containing no
tobacco or nicotine where the purpose of such combustion is solely olfactory,
such as smoke from incense.
   E.   This section shall not apply to smoking when part of a stage or
theatrical production, although use of simulated smoking products is encouraged
whenever possible.
(Ord. O-2019-002 § 2 (part), 2019; Ord. 07-02 § 1 (part), 2007)
8.14.030 Signage.
   Signs not less than eight (8) inches by ten (10) inches, stating "No
Smoking" with letters of not less than one (1) inch in height, or depicting the
international "no smoking" symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of
a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it), shall
be clearly and conspicuously posted in every building or other place where
smoking is regulated by this chapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other
person having control of such building or other place. (O-2019-002 § 2 (part),
2019)
8.14.040 Penalty.
   A.   A violation of this chapter is an infraction and shall be punished by a
fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) for a first violation of this chapter.
Each subsequent violation within a one-year period shall be punished by a fine
of five hundred dollars ($500). Violations of this chapter may alternatively be
punished as administrative violations as provided in
Chapter 1.24.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a private citizen
may bring legal action to enforce this chapter.
   C.   Punishment under this chapter shall not preclude punishment pursuant to
California Health & Safety Code Section 13002, California Penal Code Section
374.4, or any other law proscribing the act of littering. Nothing in this
chapter shall preclude any person from seeking any other remedies, penalties or
procedures provided by law. This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed
to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(O-2019-002 § 2 (part), 2019)
Chapter 8.16 LITTER
8.16.010 Waste and refuse in public areas.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave, discard, deposit or throw away any
glass container, tin can, waste food, papers or any other refuse or rubbish
upon any beach, sidewalk, boardwalk, alley, parking lot or public area in the
city. (Prior code § 8.36.010)
8.16.020 Glass containers prohibited in beach areas.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, possess or use any cup,
tumbler, jar or container made of glass and used for carrying or containing any
liquid for drinking purposes upon any beach or adjacent sidewalk, boardwalk or
parking lot area in the city. (Prior code § 8.36.020)
8.16.030 Violation—Penalty.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, including, without
limitation, Section
1.20.010, any violation of this chapter shall be an infraction, punishable as
provided by law. (Prior code § 8.36.030)
Chapter 8.18 PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION
8.18.010 Public urination or defecation prohibited.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited
any human urine or feces upon any public place, or upon any private property
without the consent of the owner, or in or upon any public property other than
property designated or set aside for that purpose.
   B.   As used in this section, "public place" means any of the following
locations: alley, street, highway, sidewalk, pier, beaches, park, parkway,
parking lot, playground, school grounds, bus stop, or any other place, whether
on private or public property, to which the general public is invited or to
which the general public has access.
   C.   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as set forth in Pismo Beach Municipal Code Section
1.20.010. (Ord. O-2016-004 § 6, 2016)
Chapter 8.20 NUISANCES
8.20.010 Short title.
   This chapter may be cited as the nuisance abatement ordinance of the city.
(Prior code § 8.16.010)
8.20.020 Public nuisances.
   A.   Determination of public nuisance. Each structure, premises, or other
condition determined by this section to be a public nuisance may, at the sole
discretion of the city, be abated in accordance with the abatement procedures
set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Structure as a public nuisance. Any structure, as defined in the
building code, which exists, or which is maintained or used upon any premises
in violation of any requirement or prohibition of any law, ordinance or permit,
including, without limitation, requirements or prohibitions related to
location, construction, condition, maintenance, use, or time period limitation,
including but not limited to, the following;
   1.   Any defective or deteriorated building that constitutes a potential
fire hazard or may result in structural failure or creates an unhealthful
condition for surrounding residents.
   2.   Any abandoned or vacated building or structure, left in a condition of
disrepair that is easily accessible to the public.
   C.   Premises as a public nuisance. Any premises upon which there exists any
condition, thing, or use in violation of any requirement or prohibition of any
law, ordinance or permit related to the condition, maintenance or use of said
premises, including, but not limited to, the following:
   1.   Excessive overgrowth of vegetation, dead, decayed or diseased trees,
growth of weeds or deposit of garden waste that are likely to harbor rats or
vermin, constitute a fire or health hazard, or may be dangerous to the public
health, safety, or welfare.
   2.   The outside storage or accumulation of lumber or other construction
materials and/or equipment, junk, trash, recyclable material, salvage,
materials or debris that are visible from any public area. For the purpose of
this Subsection C.2., the term "debris" shall include unused or discarded
matter and material having no substantial market value. This shall include, but
is not limited to rubble, asphalt, concrete, plaster, tile, rocks, bricks,
soil, building materials, crates, cartons, containers, boxes, machinery or
parts thereof, scrap metal and other pieces of metal or parts thereof.
   3.   Abandoned, discarded or unused furniture, appliances, sinks, toilets,
cabinets, or other household fixtures or equipment that is visible from a
public area.
   D.   Other public nuisance. Anything constituting a public nuisance as
specifically defined or declared by any other law or ordinance.
(Ord. 2009-003, § 3, 2009) (Prior code § 8.16.020)
8.20.030 Methods of abatement.
   Public nuisances ordered to be abated under the provisions of this chapter
may be abated by rehabilitation, repair, demolition, removal, or other
appropriate action as determined by the council after compliance by the city
with the procedures set forth in this chapter. (Prior code § 8.16.030)
8.20.040 Public hearing.
   A.   Whenever the council finds, based upon the recommendations of the city
administrator or any department head, that a public nuisance may exist upon any
premises, the council may, by resolution, declare its intent to hold a public
hearing to ascertain whether the same constitutes a public nuisance which may
be abated under the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   B.   The resolution shall describe said premises by street address,
referring to the street by name under which it is officially or commonly known,
shall further describe the property by giving the lot, block and tract number
thereof where applicable and the parcel number from the assessment roll, shall
give a brief description of the facts forming the basis for the finding; and
shall contain a brief statement of the possible methods available to abate the
alleged nuisance. (Prior code § 8.16.040)
8.20.050 Notice of public hearing—Posting.
   Within thirty days after the passage of said resolution, and at least
fifteen days before the time fixed for the public hearing, the city clerk shall
cause to be conspicuously posted on the premises a certified copy of such
resolution, and a notice of the time and place of hearing before the council,
which said notice shall be titled "NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING" in letters not
less than one inch in height, and shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on ________ at the hour of ___________, the City
Council of the City of Pismo Beach will hold a public hearing in the Council
Chamber of City Hall, Pismo Beach, CA, to ascertain whether a public nuisance
exists upon certain premises situated in said City known and designated as
___________, and more particularly described as Lot No. ______, Block No.
_____, Tract No. _____, and shown as Parcel No. _____ in Book _____, Page
______ in the assessment roll of the County of San Luis Obispo.
   If the Council finds upon the evidence presented at said hearing that a
public nuisance does exist, and if the same is not promptly abated by the owner
of said premises, said nuisance may be abated by municipal authorities by
rehabilitation, repair, demolition, removal or other appropriate action, the
cost of which will constitute a lien upon such premises until paid.
   The alleged nuisance consists of the following:
   _____________________________________
   Possible actions which may be authorized for the abatement of said alleged
nuisance are:
   _____________________________________
   All persons having any objection to, or interest in said matters are hereby
notified to appear at said public hearing at the aforesaid time and place, when
their testimony and evidence will be heard and given due consideration.
   Dated: ___________
   City Clerk
(Ord. O-2016-004 § 7, 2016; prior code § 8.16.050)
8.20.060 Notice of public hearing—Service.
   A.   At least fifteen days before the time fixed for the public hearing the
city clerk shall cause to be served upon each of the owners thereof one copy of
the notice of public hearing and a certified copy of the resolution of the
council. "Owner," as used in this chapter, means any person known to be in
possession and also any person having any legal or equitable interest in said
premises as disclosed by a current title search from an accredited title
company.
   B.   Service shall be by personal service upon any owner whose name and
address appears on the last equalized assessment roll and who can reasonable be
found within the city limits. Service upon all other owners may be accomplished
by depositing a stamped sealed envelope containing a copy of the notice and
resolution in the U.S. certified or registered mail return receipt requested,
addressed to each owner at his last known address; and if there is no known
address, then in care of the address of said premises. Service shall be deemed
to be complete at the time of such deposit. The failure of any person to
receive such notice shall not affect the validity of the abatement proceedings.
(Prior code § 8.16.060)
8.20.070 Proof of posting and service.
   Before the commencement of the public hearing, the city clerk shall verify
that affidavits or declarations establishing proof of posting of the premises
and proof of service upon all owners within the required time periods have been
filed in her office. (Prior code § 8.16.070)
8.20.080 Hearing by council.
   At the time stated in the notice, the council shall hear and consider all
relevant evidence, objections or protests, and shall receive testimony under
oath from owners, witnesses, city personnel and interested persons relative to
the existence of the alleged public nuisance, the estimated costs of abating
the same, and any other matters which the council deems pertinent thereto. Said
hearing may be continued from time to time by the council. (Prior code §
8.16.080)
8.20.090 Determination by council.
   A.   After the conclusion of the hearing, the council shall, based upon the
hearing, determine whether or not a public nuisance exists upon the said
premises, or any part thereof.
   B.   If the council finds that such public nuisance does exist and that
there is sufficient cause to require the abatement thereof, the council may
adopt a resolution declaring the existence of said nuisance upon said premises,
and ordering the abatement of the same within thirty days, or within such other
time limit as the council may specify, by the manner and means specifically set
forth in said resolution. (Prior code § 8.16.090)
8.20.100 Limitation of filing judicial action.
   Any owner or other interested person having any objections or feeling
aggrieved at any proceeding taken by the council in ordering the abatement of
any public nuisance under the provisions of this chapter must bring an action
to contest such decision within thirty days after the adoption by the council
of the resolution ordering the abatement of the nuisance. Otherwise all
objections to such decision shall be deemed waived. (Prior code § 8.16.100)
8.20.110 Service and recordation of order.
   A.   A copy of the resolution ordering the abatement of said nuisance shall
be served upon the owners of said property in accordance with the provisions of
Section
8.20.060. Any property owner shall have the right to have any such premises
rehabilitated or to have such structures demolished, removed or repaired in
accordance with said resolution, at his own expense, provided the same is done
prior to the expiration of the time limit specified in the resolution. Upon
such abatement in full by the owner, proceedings under this section shall
terminate. If the nuisance has not been abated as ordered within the specified
time limit, the city clerk shall file in the office of the recorder of the
county a certificate describing the property and certifying:
   1.   That the property is a public nuisance; and
   2.   That the owner has been so notified.
   B.   Whenever thereafter the public nuisance has been abated as ordered the
city clerk shall file a new certificate with the county recorder certifying
that the property is no longer a public nuisance. (Prior code § 8.16.8.16.110)
8.20.120 Abatement by city.
   If the nuisance is not completely abated by the owner within the time limit
specified by the council, the council may direct the city administrator, or
such other city official as may be designated by him, to cause the same to be
abated by city forces or private contract, and city and contract personnel are
expressly authorized to enter upon said premises for such purpose. Upon request
of the designated official, other city departments shall cooperate fully and
shall render all reasonable assistance in abating any such nuisance. (Prior
code § 8.16.120)
8.20.130 Statement of abatement costs.
   A.   The city administrator shall keep an account of the costs incurred by
the city in abating the said nuisance, and shall submit to the council an
itemized statement for each lot or parcel showing all such costs, including
incidental expenses, and noting any salvage value or storage costs of items
removed from the property, provided that before said statement is considered by
the council, a copy of the same shall be posted for at least five days upon
such lot or parcel, together with a notice of the time and place when said
statement will be considered by the council for confirmation. A copy of said
statement and notice shall also be served upon the owners of said lot or parcel
in the manner provided elsewhere in this chapter for serving the notice of
public hearing, provided that the date of service must be at least five days
prior to the date the council considers the statement. Proof of said posting
and service shall be accomplished as provided in Section
8.20.070.
   B.   "Incidental expenses" includes, but is not limited to, the actual
expenses and costs of the city in obtaining title reports, in the preparation
and service of notices, preparation of specifications, the preparation and
award of contracts, all costs of inspecting any work done pursuant to this
chapter, the costs of printing and mailing required under this chapter, the
costs of preparing materials for any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, and
a reasonable additional sum to cover the cost of administrative overhead.
(Prior code § 8.16.130)
8.20.140 Confirmation of the statement.
   At the time and place for considering the statement, the council shall
consider the statement together with any objections or protests thereto by the
owners or other interested persons. The decision of the council on all protests
shall be final and conclusive, and the council may approve the statement as
submitted, or may modify it as the council deems just and equitable.
Thereafter, the council shall adopt a resolution confirming the statement as
submitted or as modified. (Prior code § 8.16.140)
8.20.150 Assessment of costs.
   Both the owner of the property on which the nuisance was abated and all
persons who created, caused, committed or maintained the nuisance shall be
personally liable to the city for the abatement costs confirmed by the
resolution. In addition, said abatement costs shall constitute a special
assessment against the respective lot or parcel of land to which it relates,
and, upon recordation in the office of the county recorder of a notice of lien,
shall constitute a lien on said property for the amount of such assessment.
(Prior code § 8.16.150)
8.20.160 Notice of lien.
   The form for the notice of lien shall be substantially as follows:
   NOTICE OF LIEN (Claim of City of Pismo Beach) Pursuant to the authority
granted by the laws of the State of California and the ordinances of the City
of Pismo Beach, and in compliance with the provisions thereof, said City has
expended the sum of $ _______ to abate a public nuisance upon the hereinafter
described real property, the City Council of said City has adopted Resolution
No. ______ confirming said sum as the cost of abatement, and said sum now
constitutes a special assessment and lien upon said real property until said
sum has been paid in full and discharged of record. Said real property is
situated within the City of Pismo Beach, County of San Luis Obispo, State of
California, more particularly described as follows: (LEGAL DESCRIPTION) Dated:
__________, 19___ _____________ City Clerk City of Pismo Beach
(Prior code § 8.16.160)
8.20.170 Collection.
   After recordation, a certified copy of the notice of lien shall be delivered
to the tax collector and thereafter the amount of said lien shall be collected
at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes are
collected and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure
under foreclosure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ordinary
municipal taxes, or, after such recordation, such lien may be foreclosed by
judicial or other sale in the manner and means provided by law. (Prior code §
8.16.170)
8.20.180 Alternative methods of abatement or enforcement.
   Nothing in the foregoing sections shall be deemed or construed to prevent
the city from commencing any civil or criminal proceedings otherwise authorized
by law for the declaration or abatement of a nuisance or for the prosecution of
a criminal offense which may also constitute a nuisance. (Prior code §
8.16.190)
8.20.190 Violation—Penalty.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to remove, deface, or mutilate any
notice, order, statement, or resolution posted as required in this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, impede or interfere with any
owner or his agent or with any representative of the city when engaged in
performing any act reasonably necessary for the execution of the order of
abatement. (Prior code § 8.16.180)
Chapter 8.24 RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS
Article I. Transportation of Radioactive Waste
8.24.010 Prohibitions.
   No person shall transport into or through the city any quantity of
radioactive material specified as follows:
   A.   Plutonium isotopes in any quantity and form exceeding two grams or
twenty curies, whichever is less;
   B.   Uranium enriched in the isotope U235 exceeding twenty-five atomic
percent of the total uranium content in quantities where U235 content exceeds
one kilogram;
   C.   Any of the actinides, i.e., elements with atomic number eighty-nine or
greater, the activity of which exceeds twenty curies;
   D.   Spent reactor fuel elements or mixed fission products associated with
such spent fuel elements the activity of which exceeds twenty curies;
   E.   Any quantity of radioactive material specified as a "large quantity" by
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 10 CFR, Part 71, entitled "Packaging of
Radioactive Material for Transport" or
   F.   Any radioactive material or substance which spontaneously emits
ionizing radiation but not to include unconcentrated or unprocessed materials
as they occur in nature which emit radiation. This is not intended to apply to
small quantities of specified radioactive materials intended for therapeutic
radiology and biomedical research or educational purposes. (Prior code §
8.32.010)
8.24.020 Exceptions.
   This article shall not apply to radioactive materials shipped by or for the
United States Government for military or national security purposes or which
are related to national defense. Nothing in this article shall be construed as
requiring the disclosure of any defense information or restricted data as
defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Reorganization Act of
1974, as amended. (Prior code § 8.32.020)
8.24.030 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars for each violation. (Prior code § 8.32.030)
Article II. Storage of Radioactive Waste
8.24.040 Purpose.
   The city council finds that it is necessary for the protection of the public
health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city and of visitors to the
city to adopt the regulations in this article. Such regulations are in addition
to, and not in conflict with, state and federal laws and regulations which this
council finds to be insufficient and inadequate to provide protection from the
hazards of stored radioactive material. (Prior code § 8.33.010)
8.24.050 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, the words below shall have the following
meanings:
   "Store," "stored" or "storage" mean any cumulative period of time in excess
of one hour that any one lot, package or shipment of prohibited radioactive
material shall be or remain within the city limits, including, without
limitation, all time in transit on vehicles, railroad cars or other mechanical
equipment, public or private, all loading and unloading time, and all time off-
loaded, whether attended or unattended.
   In addition to all other definitions of "person" set forth elsewhere in this
code or state law, "person" includes, without limitation, the business
organization owning the radioactive materials. (Prior code § 8.33.020)
8.24.060 Prohibitions.
   It is unlawful for any person to store, or to cause, permit, authorize or
otherwise allow the storage within the city at any time of any quantity of any
of the following radioactive materials:
   A.   Plutonium isotopes in any quantity and form exceeding two grams or 20
curies, whichever is less;
   B.   Uranium enriched in the isotope U235 exceeding 25 atomic percent of the
total uranium content in quantities where U235 content exceed one kilogram;
   C.   Any of the actinides (i.e., elements with atomic number 89 or greater)
the activity of which exceeds 20 curies;
   D.   Spent reactor fuel elements or mixed fission products associated with
such spent fuel elements the activity of which exceeds 20 curies;
   E.   Any quantity of radioactive material specified as a "large quantity" by
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 10 CFR, Part 71, entitled "Packaging of
Radioactive Material for Transport" or
   F.   Any radioactive material or substance which spontaneously emits
ionizing radiation but not to include unconcentrated or unprocessed materials
as they occur in nature which emit radiation. This is not intended to apply to
small quantities of specified radioactive materials intended for therapeutic
radiology and biomedical research or educational purposes. (Prior code §
8.33.030)
8.24.070 Exemptions.
   This article shall not apply to radioactive materials shipped by or for the
United States Government for military or national security purposes or which
are related to national defense. Nothing in this article shall be construed as
requiring the disclosure of any defense information or restricted data as
defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Reorganization Act of
1974, as amended. (Prior code § 8.33.040)
8.24.080 Violation—Penalty.
   Violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor punishable as provided
elsewhere in this code and by state law. (Prior code § 8.33.050)
8.24.090 Separate violations.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
1.20.010, the continued storage of prohibited radioactive material shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter for each hour that said
material is stored in violation hereof. Upon the occurrence of the first such
violation for any such radioactive material, the chief of police shall
concentrate all officers reasonably available to gather information as to a
possible conspiracy or any other deliberate attempt to violate the provisions
hereof. (Prior code § 8.33.060)
Chapter 8.28 WATER WELLS
8.28.010 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter the words and phrases defined in this section
mean as follows:
   "Abandoned" or "abandonment" shall apply to a well which has not been used
for a period of one year, unless the owner declares in writing to the health
officer, his intention to use the well again for supplying water or other
associated purposes, such as an observation well or injection well, and
receives approval of such declaration by the health officer. All such
declarations shall be renewed annually. Test holes and exploratory holes shall
be considered abandoned twenty-four hours after construction work has been
completed, unless otherwise approved by the health officer.
   "Agricultural wells" means water wells used to supply water for irrigation
or other agricultural purposes, including stock wells.
   "Cathodic protection well" means any artificial excavation in an aquifer or
in excess of fifty feet, constructed by any method for the purpose of
installing equipment or facilities for the protection electrically of metallic
equipment in contact with the ground commonly referred to as cathodic
protection.
   "Community water supply well" means a water well for domestic purposes in
systems subject to Chapter 7 of Part 1 of Division 5 of the California Health
and Safety Code.
   "Completion" or "completion operation" means any work conducted after
artificial excavation to include:
   1.   Placement of well casing;
   2.   Gravel packing;
   3.   Sealing;
   4.   Casing perforation; or
   5.   Other operations deemed necessary by the health officer.
   "Contamination" means an impairment of the quality of water to a degree
which creates a hazard to the public health through poisoning or through spread
of disease.
   "Destruction" or "destroy" means the complete filling of a well in such a
manner that will not produce water or act as a conduit for the interchange of
water, when such interchange will result in deterioration of the quality of
water in any water-bearing formations penetrated.
   "Electrical grounding well" means any artificial excavation in an aquifer or
in excess of fifty feet, constructed by any method for the purpose of
establishing an electrical ground.
   "Health officer" means the health officer of the county, his medical
deputies, his sanitarians, or his duly authorized representatives.
   "Individual domestic well" means a water well used to supply water for
domestic needs of an individual residence or commercial establishment.
   "Industrial wells" means water wells used to supply industry on an
individual basis.
   "Modification" or "repair" means the deepening of a well, reperforation,
sealing or replacement of a well casing.
   "Observation well" means a well used for monitoring or sampling the
condition of a water-bearing aquifer, such as water pressure, depth, movement
or quality.
   "Person" includes any person, firm, association, corporation, organization,
partnership, business trust, company, or special district formed under the laws
of the state.
   "Pollution" means an alteration of the quality of water to a degree which
unreasonably affects:
   1.   Such waters for beneficial uses; or
   2.   Facilities which serve such beneficial uses. Pollution may include
contamination.
   "Public nuisance," when applied to a well, means any well which threatens to
impair the quality of ground water or otherwise jeopardize the health and
safety of the public.
   "Salt water (hydraulic) barrier wells" means wells constructed to extract or
introduce water into the ground as a means of preventing intrusion of salt
water into a fresh water-bearing aquifer.
   "Test or exploratory hole" means an excavation used for determining the
nature of underground geological or hydrological conditions, whether by seismic
investigation, direct observation or any other means.
   "Well" means any artificial excavation constructed by any method for the
purpose of extracting from or injecting water into, the underground, or for
providing cathodic protection or electrical grounding of equipment, or for
making tests or observations of underground conditions, or for any other
similar purpose. Wells shall include, but shall not be limited to, community
water supply wells, individual domestic wells, industrial wells, agricultural
wells, cathodic protection wells, electrical grounding wells, test and
exploratory holes, observation wells, and salt water (hydraulic) barrier wells,
as defined in this section, and other wells whose regulation is necessary to
fulfill the purpose of this chapter. This definition shall not include:
   1.   Oil and gas wells constructed under the jurisdiction of the State
Department of Conservation, or geothermal wells, except those wells converted
to use as water wells; or
   2.   Wells used for the purpose of:
   a.   Dewatering excavation during construction, or
   b.   Stabilizing hillsides or earth embankments;
   3.   And the following artificial definitions:
   a.   Drill holes for soil testing purposes where such holes are less than
twenty-five feet in depth,
   b.   Holes or excavations for soil percolation tests,
   c.   Drill holes for seismic exploration where such drill holes are less
than twenty-five feet in depth,
   d.   Excavations for drainage percolation ponds or spreading basins.
   "Well drilling contractor" means a contractor licensed in accordance with
the provisions of the California Contractor's Law, Chapter 9, Division 3, of
the Business and Professions Code, commencing with Section 7000. (Prior code §
13.20.010)
8.28.020 Permit—Required.
   No person as defined in this chapter shall within the incorporated area of
the city construct, repair, modify or destroy any well unless such person
possesses a valid permit issued by the health officer of the county as provided
in this chapter, and a use permit issued by the city pursuant to the applicable
provisions of appropriate substantive and procedural land use ordinances of the
city. (Prior code § 13.20.020)
8.28.030 Conformity with standards required.
   No person shall construct, repair, modify or destroy any well unless such
construction, repair, modifications or destruction is in conformance with the
terms, conditions, and standards specified in this chapter and in the written
permit issued by the health officer, and the use permit issued by the city
pursuant to the appropriate ordinances referred to in Section
8.28.020. (Prior code § 13.20.030)
8.28.040 Permit—Applications.
   Applications for permits shall be made to the health officer of the county
and shall include the following:
   A.   A plot plan indicating the exact location of the well with respect to
the following items within a radius of two hundred feet of the well:
   1.   Property lines,
   2.   Sewage disposal systems or works carrying or containing sewage or
industrial wastes,
   3.   All intermittent or perennial, natural or artificial water bodies or
watercourses,
   4.   Drainage pattern of the property,
   5.   Existing wells,
   6.   Access roads;
   B.   Location of the property (include township, range and section);
   C.   Name of the person who will construct the well;
   D.   Estimated or proposed depth of well;
   E.   Use of the well;
   F.   Other information as may be necessary to determine if underground
waters will be protected. (Prior code § 13.20.040)
8.28.050 Permit—Application fees.
   Every permit application except those made by a public agency shall be
accompanied by a fee of ten dollars, none of which shall be refundable. (Prior
code § 13.20.050)
8.28.060 Permit—Duration.
   Each permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire within six months
following the date of the issuance of the permit. Upon expiration of any permit
issued pursuant to this chapter, no further work may be done in connection with
construction, repair, modification, or abandonment of a well unless and until a
new permit for such purpose is secured in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. (Prior code § 13.20.060)
8.28.070 Permit—Prohibition.
   No permit shall be issued to any person who is not a well drilling
contractor, provided that a permit may be issued to an owner or occupant of
property who does the work of construction, repair, modification or destruction
of a well located on such property himself or through his own employees; and
provided further that a permit may be issued to any person exempt from the
provisions of the Contractor's License Law, Chapter 9, Division 3, of the
Business and Professions Code (commencing with Section 7000). (Prior code §
13.20.070)
8.28.080 Permit—Bond required.
   A.   As a condition precedent to the issuance of a permit, every applicant
for a permit shall file or have on file with the health officer of the county a
corporate surety bond in the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars, issued
by a surety company licensed to do business in the state, or in lieu thereof, a
cash deposit in the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars.
   B.   As used in this section, "cash deposit" includes, without limitation,
certificates of deposit payable to the county issued by banks doing business in
this state, investment certificates or share accounts assigned to the county
and issued by savings and loan associations doing business in this state, or
bearer bonds issued by the United States Government or by this state.
   C.   The surety bonds shall be conditioned to secure the compliance and
faithful performance by the permittee of the terms, conditions, and standards
imposed by this chapter, or by any permit issued under this chapter.
   D.   If cash is deposited in lieu of such bond, said cash deposit shall
secure the compliance and faithful performance by the permittee of the terms,
conditions, and standards imposed by this chapter, or any permit issued under
this chapter. (Prior code § 13.20.080)
8.28.090 Permit—Conditions.
   Permits shall be issued subject to compliance with the standards provided in
Section
8.28.140; in addition thereto, if the health officer shall find that the
proposed construction, repair, modification, or destruction of a well may
create an unreasonable danger of contamination, pollution, or public nuisance,
he shall deny the application for issuance of a permit. In such case, the fee
shall be refunded. (Prior code § 13.20.090)
8.28.100 Permit—Term—Completion of work.
   The permittee shall complete the work authorized by the permit prior to the
expiration date set forth in the permit. The permittee shall notify the health
officer in writing upon completion of the work, and such work shall not be
deemed to have been completed until such written notification has been
received. (Prior code § 13.20.100)
8.28.110 Well driller report required.
   A copy of the well driller report required under Section 13751 of the
California Water Code, shall be submitted to the health officer of the county,
along with an information copy to be furnished to the city administrator upon
completion of construction of each well. (Prior code § 13.20.110)
8.28.120 Permit—Appeal.
   Any person aggrieved by the refusal of the health officer to issue a permit
or by the terms of a permit may appeal from the action of the health officer to
the council by filing a written notice of appeal with the clerk of said
council. The clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the council and
shall give reasonable notice of the time and place thereof to the applicant and
to the health officer. The council shall hear the appeal by the applicant, and
shall forthwith decide whether substantial grounds are shown for the decision
of the health officer from which said appeal is taken. In arriving at such
decision the council may refer the matter to the planning commission for its
recommendation to the council. Unless the council shall rescind the health
officer's action by a majority vote, his decision shall be deemed affirmed.
(Prior code § 13.20.120)
8.28.130 Standards.
   Standards for the construction, repair, modification or destruction of wells
shall be as set forth in Chapter II of the California Department of Water
Resources Bulletin No. 74, "Water Well Standards: State of California" and its
Appendices E, F, and G; and those of the Department of Water Resources Bulletin
No. 74-1, "Cathodic Protection Well Standards," State of California. (Prior
code § 13.20.130)
8.28.140 Public nuisance.
   In the event the health officer determines that a well constitutes a public
nuisance, he shall abate said nuisance in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 22.97 of the San Luis Obispo County Code and/or Chapter 8.20 of this
title. (Prior code § 13.20.140)
8.28.150 Immediate abatement.
   If the health officer finds that immediate action is necessary to prevent
impairment of the groundwater or a threat to the health or safety of the
public, he may immediately abate the nuisance without complying with the
provisions of Sections 22.97.010 through 22.97.070 of Chapter 22.97 of the San
Luis Obispo County Code. After abating the nuisance, the health officer shall
comply with the provisions of Sections 22.97.080 through 22.97.095 of the San
Luis Obispo County Code. (Prior code § 13.20.150)
Chapter 8.32 WEEDS AND RUBBISH
8.32.010 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   "Fire chief" means the chief of the Pismo Beach fire department, his
assistants and deputies, or other public officer or employee designated by the
city manager to perform the duties imposed by this chapter upon the fire chief.
   "Refuse" means all putrescible or nonputrescible solid and semisolid waste,
whether combustible or noncombustible and garbage.
   "Rubbish" means and includes but is not limited to grass, trimmings, yard
cuttings, fallen leaves and weeds.
   "Weeds" means weeds which when mature, bear the wingy or downy seeds which
will attain such a large growth as to become a fire menace when dry, or which
are otherwise noxious or dangerous. This includes but is not limited to:
   1.   Weeds growing upon highways, streets, sidewalks, parkways, or private
property in the city;
   2.   Dry grass, stubble, brush, garden refuse, litter, or other flammable
material which constitutes a fire hazard or which, when dry, will in reasonable
probability constitute a fire hazard;
   3.   Poison oak and poison ivy when the location of such plants constitutes
a menace to the public health. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.020 Authority to declare nuisance and abate.
   The city council may declare by resolution as a public nuisance and abate:
   A.   Weeds growing in any location within the city, whether on public or
private land;
   B.   All rubbish, refuse and dirt upon parkways or sidewalks, and all
rubbish and refuse upon private property in the city. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part),
1996)
8.32.030 Resolution declaring nuisance—Contents.
   The resolution shall:
   A.   Declare that said nuisances as described in Section
8.32.020 exist upon all of the designated streets, alleys, sidewalks and
private property within the city as shown, described and delineated on the
several maps of the properties in the city which are recorded in the office of
the county recorder of the county of San Luis Obispo.
   B.   Declare that said public nuisances must be abated by the destruction or
removal thereof and that all owners of property on which such public nuisances
exist or which abuts public streets or sidewalks on which such public nuisances
exist shall without delay destroy or remove all such public nuisances or such
work will be done by the city, in which case the cost of such work will be
assessed upon the lands from which, and/or in the front and rear of which, such
nuisances shall have been destroyed or removed.
   C.   Set the time and place for a public hearing at which the city council
will consider all protests from persons objecting to the proposed destruction
or removal of such public nuisances and order the fire chief to give notice of
the passage of the resolution in the manner herein provided.
   D.   Direct the fire chief to give notice of the council's resolution and
the time and place for the public hearing described in subsection C of this
section. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.040 Weeds on specified parcels of property as seasonal and recurrent
nuisances.
   A.   At the time it adopts the resolution described in Section
8.32.030, the city council may also find and declare in such resolution that
weeds on specified parcels of property are seasonal and recurrent nuisances.
Such seasonal and recurrent nuisances shall be abated in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, provided, that upon the second and any subsequent
occurrence of such nuisance on the same parcel or parcels within the same
calendar year, no further hearings need be held, and it shall be sufficient for
the fire chief to mail a notice letter to the owners of the property as they
and their addresses appear upon the current assessment roll.
   B.   The notice shall refer to and describe the property and shall state
that noxious or dangerous weeds of a seasonal and recurrent nature are growing
on or in front of the property, and that the same constitute a public nuisance
which must be abated by the removal of such noxious or dangerous weeds, and
that otherwise they will be removed and the nuisance will be abated by the city
authorities, in which case the cost of such removal shall be assessed upon the
parcel and lands from which or in front of which such weeds are removed and
that upon confirmation such cost will constitute a lien upon such parcel or
lands until paid. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.050 Form of notice.
   The notice given pursuant to Sections
8.32.030 and
8.32.040 shall be in substantially the following form:
   NOTICE TO DESTROY OR REMOVE WEEDS AND OTHER NUISANCES NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that on _______, 19___, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 8.32 of the Pismo
Beach Municipal Code, the City Council of said City passed a resolution
declaring that all weeds and other nuisances as defined in Section
8.32.020 thereof, growing or located upon any private property or in any public
street, alley, or sidewalk constitute a public nuisance, which nuisance must be
abated by the destruction or removal thereof. NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that all
property owners shall without delay destroy or remove all such weeds, and other
public nuisances as defined in Section
8.32.020 of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code, from their property and the
abutting half of the street in front of and alleys, if any, behind such
property and between the lot lines thereof as extended, or such weeds and other
nuisance will be destroyed or removed and such nuisance abated by the City
authorities, in which case the cost of such destruction or removal will be
assessed upon the lots and lands from which, or from the front or rear of
which, such weeds and other nuisances shall have been destroyed or removed; and
such cost will constitute a lien upon such lots or lands until paid, and will
be collected upon the next tax roll upon which general municipal taxes are
collected. All property owners having any objections to the proposed
destruction or removal of such weeds and other nuisances are hereby notified to
attend a meeting of the Council of said City, to be held in the Council Chamber
of the City Hall in said City on __________, 19___, at ____o'clock, which and
where their objections will be heard and given due consideration. Date:
________, 19___ Fire Chief City of Pismo Beach
(Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.060 Notice by mail of hearing.
   The notice given pursuant to Sections
8.32.030 and
8.32.040 shall be mailed by the fire chief at least ten days prior to the date
set for the hearing to all owners of real property subject to assessment for
the abatement work directed to the address of the owners as shown on the latest
county tax roll. Nonreceipt of the notice by any property owner shall not
invalidate any assessment made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.070 Hearing procedure.
   At the time and place stated in the notices, the city council shall hear and
consider all protests to the proposed destruction or removal of the public
nuisances and may continue the hearing from time to time. At the conclusion of
the hearing the city council shall rule on all protests. The decision of the
city council is final. After final action is taken by the city council on such
protests, if any, it shall acquire jurisdiction to order the performance of the
work of destruction and removal of such weeds and other nuisances. (Ord. 96-05
§ 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.080 Order to abate nuisances.
   The council shall by resolution order the fire chief to abate such
nuisances, or cause the same to be abated, by having the same destroyed or
removed, and the fire chief and his deputies, assistants, employees,
contracting agents, or other representatives are expressly authorized to enter
upon private property for that purpose. Any property owner shall have the right
to destroy or remove such weeds and other nuisances himself, or have the same
destroyed or removed at his own expense, provided that such nuisance shall have
been removed to the satisfaction of the fire chief prior to the arrival of the
fire chief or his authorized representatives to remove them. (Ord. 96-05 § 2
(part), 1996)
8.32.090 Account and cost report.
   The fire chief shall keep an account of the cost of abating such nuisances
and embody such account in a report and assessment list which shall be
presented to the city council. Such report shall refer to each separate lot or
parcel of land by description sufficient to identify such lot or parcel,
together with the expense proposed to be assessed against each separate lot or
parcel of land. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.100 Performance of abatement work.
   The nuisance abatement work may in the discretion of the city manager be
performed by city employees or by a private contractor. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part),
1996)
8.32.110 Notice of cost report.
   The city clerk shall post a copy of the report and assessment list referred
to in Section
8.32.090 on the bulletin board near the entrance door at the City Hall,
together with a notice of the filing thereof and of the time and place when and
where it will be submitted to the city council for hearing and confirmation,
notifying property owners that they may appear at such time and place, and
object to any matter contained therein. The posting of said notice shall be
made and completed at least ten days before the time such report shall have
been submitted to the city council. Such notice, as so posted, shall be
substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF HEARING ON REPORT AND ASSESSMENT FOR ABATEMENT OF WEEDS AND OTHER
NUISANCES NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on _______, 19___, the Fire Chief of the
City of Pismo Beach filed with the City Clerk of said City a report and
assessment on abatement of weeds and other nuisances within said City, a copy
of which is posted on the bulletin board at the entrance to the City Hall.
NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that on ________, 19___, at _____ o'clock, in the
Council Chambers of said City Hall said report and assessment list will be
presented to the City Council of said City for consideration and confirmation,
and that any and all persons interested, and having any objections to said
report and assessment list, or to any matter or thing contained therein, may
appear at said time and place and be heard. Date: __________, 19___. Fire Chief
City of Pismo Beach
(Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.120 Notice by mail of cost report.
   A letter giving notice of the time and place of the submission of the report
to the city council for confirmation, stating generally the purpose of the
report, shall be mailed by the fire chief at least ten days prior to the date
set for hearing to all owners of real property subject to assessment for the
abatement work directed to the address of the owners as shown on the latest
county tax roll. Nonreceipt of the notice by any property owner shall not
invalidate any assessment made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.130 Hearing and confirmation.
   A.   At the time and place set for considering the cost report and
assessment list, the city council shall consider the objections of any of the
property owners whose property is subject to assessment. The city council may
make such modifications in the report as it deems equitable; it shall then
confirm the report by resolution.
   B.   The amount of the cost of abating such nuisances upon, or in the front
or rear of, the various lots or parcels of land respectively referred to in
such report, shall constitute special assessments against such respective lots
or parcels of land and, after being thus made and confirmed, shall constitute a
lien on such property for the amount of such assessments, until paid. (Ord. 96-
05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.140 Cost report—Filing with county auditor.
   After confirmation of the report, a certified copy shall be filed with the
San Luis Obispo County auditor on or before August 10th of each year and the
auditor shall be requested to enter the amounts of the respective assessments
on the county tax roll opposite each parcel of land. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part),
1996)
8.32.150 Manner of collection.
   The amount of such assessments shall be collected at the time and in the
manner of city property taxes. If delinquent, the amount of such assessments
shall be subject to the same penalties and procedure of foreclosure and sale as
in the case of city property taxes. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.160 Refunds.
   The city council may order a refund of all or part of an assessment paid
pursuant to this chapter if it finds that all or part of the assessment has
been erroneously levied. An assessment or any part thereof shall not be
refunded unless a claim is filed with the city. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.170 Alternate manner of abatement.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as precluding the city from
utilizing any alternative procedure for weed or nuisance abatement prescribed
by this code or available under state law to cities, nor shall this chapter be
construed to prevent the city, its agents or representatives, from entering
upon private property for the purpose of abating any public nuisance as defined
in Section
8.32.020 without following the procedure prescribed in this chapter provided
the work is done at the expense of the city. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
8.32.180 Method of abatement—Fire chief authority.
   The fire chief shall determine the appropriate manner in which the public
nuisances must be abated. (Ord. 96-05 § 2 (part), 1996)
Chapter 8.36 BARBECUES
8.36.010 Definitions.
   For purpose of this chapter the words defined in this section mean as
follows:
   "Barbecue" means food prepared on an open fire or bed of coals by an
individual, nonprofit organization or commercial business for the purpose of
selling to the general public. (Ord. 02-01 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 § 1
(part), 1990: prior code § 8.06.010)
8.36.020 Barbecues on public property.
   An individual, nonprofit organization or commercial business shall be
allowed to conduct a barbecue on public property when a special event permit
for limited duration and use of public property has been obtained. (Ord. 02-01
§ 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 § 1 (part), 1990: prior code § 8.06.020)
8.36.030 Barbecues on private property.
   No individual, nonprofit organization or commercial business shall operate a
barbecue on private property without first having obtained a barbecue permit
for that property. Permits for uses exterior and in the interior of a building
may be permitted by the fire department. (Ord. 02-01 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-
05 § 1 (part), 1990: prior code § 8.06.040)
8.36.040 General requirements.
   Barbecues authorized under this chapter shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
   A.   Barbecues shall be kept to a minimum of ten feet from flammable
structures or material and/or shall meet approved fire suppression techniques
as described in the California building and fire codes.
   B.   A water hose and/or water extinguisher approved by the fire department
shall be present until the fire is extinguished.
   C.   A responsible adult shall remain with the barbecue at all times and the
fire shall be extinguished before being left alone.
   D.   No driveways or fire access may be blocked by placement of barbecues.
   E.   All current zoning, building, fire, health and other municipal code
regulations shall be met.
   F.   Obtain an appropriate city business license.
   G.   If a tent or canopy are used, the fire department will require a permit
and inspection of the tent for compliance with the California Fire Code Article
11 and Article 32. (Ord. 02-01 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 § 1 (part), 1990:
prior code § 8.06.060)
8.36.050 Application for barbecue permit.
   The application for a barbecue permit shall include the following:
   A.   A site plan of the property showing location of buildings, tent or
canopy, parking spaces, proposed barbecue location and dimensions;
   B.   A sheet stating how each of the general requirements listed in Section
8.36.040 are to be met;
   C.   Property owner's name, address and phone number;
   D.   Responsible person's name, address and phone number;
   E.   A description of the days and times the barbecue will be in operatioin;
   F.   Any letters of support or opposition from adjacent businesses or
residences;
   G.   The additional parking that can be provided;
   H.   A picture of the proposed barbecue site, photo of barbecue pit and
vehicle, if any;
   I.   Any information the applicant feels may aid the decision;
   J.   Application fees;
   K.   Any other information deemed important by the fire department;
   L.   Proof of approval from the county health department/environmental
health division. (Ord. 02-01 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 § 1 (part), 1990:
prior code § 8.06.070)
8.36.060 Fire department issuance of barbecue permits.
   The following shall be a guide to the fire department when considering
permits for barbecues:
   A.   Public health and safety;
   B.   Community support;
   C.   Community image;
   D.   Impact on adjacent businesses and residents;
   E.   Adequacy of parking; the number of spaces must be a delineated minimum
number, but more can be required;
   F.   Traffic that will be generated, mitigation measures for traffic
impacts;
   G.   Any other conditions deemed appropriate;
   H.   Consistency and compatibility with surrounding area and zoning district
provisioins;
   I.   The fire department shall review the applicaton and impose conditions
limiting time of use, ensure the use is conducted safely and in the interests
of the neighborhood, public convenience and the community. (Ord. 02-01 § 1
(part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 § 1 (part), 1990: prior code § 8.06.080)
8.36.070 Hazard abatement.
   Any barbecue deemed to be a fire or life safety hazard because of location,
atmospheric conditions or failure to comply with any conditions listed in this
chapter, or in conjunction with a barbecue permit, may be stopped immediately
until such conditions are corrected. (Ord. 02-01 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 §
1 (part), 1990: prior code § 8.06.090)
8.36.080 Inspections and enforcement.
   The fire department shall be responsible for the inspection and enforcement
of conditions for permitted barbecues. (Ord. 02-01 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05
§ 1 (part), 1990: prior code § 8.06.100)
8.36.090 Fees--Exemptions.
   A.   Application Fee. The city shall collect a fee to offset the cost of
processing and issuing a barbecue permit. This fee shall be in an amount as
established be resolution of the city council.
   B.   Exemptions. The city council may by resolution exempt nonprofit
organizations from payment of fees (Ord. 02-01 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 § 1
(part), 1990: prior code § 8.06.110)
8.36.100 Exceptions.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the following:
   A.   Private barbecues on public property where no goods are sold to the
public;
   B.   Residential or backyard barbecues where no goods are sold to the
public;
   C.   Properties where permanent barbecues are installed as an approved use,
i.e., Vets hall, when not engaged in selling to the general public. (Ord. 02-01
§ 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 § 1 (part), 1990: prior code § 8.06.120)
8.36.110 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for
a period of not more than six months or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 02-01 § 1 (part), 2001: Ord. 90-05 § 1 (part), 1990: prior code §
8.06.140)
Chapter 8.37 LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF RESPONSE TO HAZARDOUS WASTE OR SUBSTANCE
SPILLS, RELEASES AND OTHER INCIDENTS
8.37.010 Purpose and authority.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish liability for reimbursement of
the city's expenses incurred in connection with corrective action necessitated
by violations of the hazardous waste and substance control laws. The authority
for this chapter includes the general police power; the provisions of Article 6
of Chapter 10 of Part 2 of the California Government Code (commencing with
Section 38771); Sections 3479 and 3494 of the California Civil Code; Section
510 of the California Health and Safety Code, (hereinafter "Health and Safety
Code"), and the provisions of Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section 25100) of
Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code. (Ord. 95-08 § 1 (part), 1995)
8.37.020 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   "City" means, in addition to the city of Pismo Beach, any special district
governed by the city council of the city of Pismo Beach.
   "Corrective action" includes, without limitation, any "remedial action"
within the meaning of Section 25322 of the Health and Safety Code and any
"removal" within the meaning of Section 25323 of the Health and Safety Code.
   "Disposal" has the meaning assigned to that term by Section 25113 of the
Health and Safety Code.
   "Hazardous waste and substance control laws" means Chapter 6.5 (commencing
with Section 25100) or Chapter 6.7 (commencing with Section 25280) of Division
20 of the Health and Safety Code or any permit, rule, regulation, standard or
requirement issued or promulgated pursuant to such chapters.
   "Hazardous waste or substance" means a waste or substance that consists of a
material listed in either the List of Chemical Names or the List of Common
Names appearing in Section 66680 of Title 22 of the California Administrative
Code, a waste or substance as defined in either Section 25280, Section 25316 or
Section 25400 of the Health and Safety Code.
   "Person" has the meaning assigned to that term by Section 25118 of the
Health and Safety Code.
   "Release" has the meaning assigned to that term by Section 25320 and Section
25321 of the Health and Safety Code.
   "Unauthorized disposal or release" means any disposal of a hazardous waste
or substance which is in violation of the provisions of Chapter 6.5 (commencing
with Section 25100) of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, and
"unauthorized release" within the meaning of Section 25280 of the Health and
Safety Code, or any release of a hazardous waste or substance which is not a
"release" authorized or permitted within the meaning of Section 25326 of the
Health and Safety Code. (Ord. 95-08 § 1 (part), 1995)
8.37.030 Liability for unauthorized disposal or release.
   If the city takes any corrective action which, in the judgment of either the
city manager or his appointed officer, is reasonably necessary to remedy or
prevent an imminent substantial danger to the public health, domestic
livestock, wildlife or the environment arising out of any unauthorized disposal
or release of any hazardous waste or substance, the following described persons
shall be jointly and severally liable to the city for the cost incurred by it
in taking any such corrective action:
   A.   The person or persons whose negligent or wilful act or omission
proximately caused such disposal or release;
   B.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous waste or substance at the time of such disposal or release, without
regard to fault or proximate cause; and
   C.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
container which held such hazardous waste or substance at the time of or
immediately prior to such disposal or release, without regard to fault or
proximate cause. (Ord. 95-08 § 1 (part), 1995)
8.37.040 Liability for failure to comply with orders.
   If the city manager or his appointed officer issues a lawful order directing
any person who has violated or is in violation of any provisions of the
hazardous waste or substance control laws to take corrective action respecting
such violation, and if such person does not take such corrective action or
before the date and time specified in the order, the city may take or contract
for the taking of such corrective action. If such corrective action is taken by
or contracted for by the city, the person to whom the order was directed shall
be liable to the city for the cost incurred by it in taking or contracting for
such corrective action. If such corrective action is taken by the person to
whom the order is directed or by such person's agent, the person to whom the
order is directed shall be liable to the city for the city's cost of
supervising such corrective action or otherwise verifying compliance with the
order. (Ord. 95-08 § 1 (part), 1995)
8.37.050 Computation of costs.
   The costs referred to in Section
8.37.040 and Section
8.37.060 shall include, in addition to the city's direct out-of-pocket
expenses, the cost of all city personnel engaged in such work computed in
accordance with the city's standard accounting procedures for computing the
hourly cost of services by such personnel and any other costs or fees set by
resolution. (Ord. 95-08 § 1 (part), 1995)
8.37.060 Recovery of costs where real property is not the subject of
enforcement.
   Where real property is not the subject of the enforcement, the amount of
such costs for which liability is imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be
recoverable in a civil action by the city and shall be in addition to any other
fees or penalties authorized by law; provided, that any sums actually received
by the city in connection with such work pursuant to Chapter 6.8 (commencing
with Section 25300) of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code shall be
credited against any amount recoverable in such civil action. (Ord. 95-08 § 1
(part), 1995)
8.37.070 Levy, collection and enforcement of special assessment upon real
property.
   The following procedure shall apply concerning the levy, collection and
enforcement of a special assessment for the recovery of costs as provided by
Section
8.37.030:
   A.   On or before June 1st of each year, the director of finance or his or
her appointed officer shall give notice to each real property owner to be
levied by causing personal service to be made upon the owner, agent or person
in control of the subject real property, or by depositing such notice in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner of the subject real
property, at the address shown by the last equalized assessment roll. The
notice shall bear the date of personal service or mailing and shall set forth
the rights and procedures governing a request of hearing as provided for
herein.
   B.   Within ten days of the date of the notice, the owner or any other
person interested in the subject real property may request a hearing on the
correct amount of the proposed assessment. Such request shall be in writing and
shall state the objections, name and address of the person filing the request.
The request shall be filed with the department of finance.
   C.   If a hearing is requested, notice of the hearing shall be mailed, by
registered mail, at least ten days before the hearing to the party requesting
the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by the director of finance who
shall not be limited by the technical rules of evidence and shall hear all
facts and testimony he or she deems pertinent. The decision of the director of
finance is a final order.
   D.   Any interested party may appeal the decision of the director of finance
by filing a written notice of appeal with said director within five days after
his or her decision. Such appeal shall be heard by the city council which may
affirm, modify, or reverse the order or take other action it deems appropriate.
The city clerk shall give written notice of the time and place of the hearing
to appellant, by registered mail, at least ten days before the hearing. In
conducting the hearing, the Council shall not be limited by the technical rules
of evidence.
   E.   On or before July of each year, the city manager or his appointed
officer shall prepare a list of parcels of real property which are subject to
such costs. On or before the tenth day of July of each year, the city manager
or his appointed officer shall transmit such list to the county auditor and
request the auditor to enter the amounts of the respective assessments against
the respective parcels of land as they appear on the current assessment roll.
   F.   The assessment shall be included on the bills for taxes levied against
respective lots and parcels of real property, and such assessment shall be
listed separately on the tax bill. Thereafter, the amounts of such assessment
shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as county taxes are
collected.
   G.   San Luis Obispo County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for its
services in connection with such collection before remittal of the balance to
the city treasury.
   H.   All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of county
taxes are applicable to such special assessment made pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 95-08 § 1 (part), 1995)
Chapter 8.38 REGULATION OF THE SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
8.38.010 Posting of signs.
   Any person, business, tobacco retailer, or other establishment subject to
this chapter shall post plainly visible signs at the point of purchase of
tobacco products that state:
   SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW, PHOTO l.D. REQUIRED.
   The letters of said signs must be at least one-half inch high. (Ord. 2000-04
§ 1 (part), 2000)
8.38.020 Sales to minors.
   No person, business, tobacco retailer, or owner, manager, or operator of any
establishment subject to this chapter shall sell, offer to sell or permit to be
sold any tobacco product to an individual without requesting and examining
identification establishing the purchaser's age as eighteen years or greater
unless the seller has some reasonable basis for determining that the buyer is
at least eighteen years of age. (Ord. 2000-04 § 1 (part), 2000)
8.38.030 Self-service sales of tobacco.
   It is unlawful for any person, business, or tobacco retailer within the city
to sell, offer for sale, or display for sale any tobacco product by means of a
self-service display. All tobacco products shall be offered for sale
exclusively by means of vendor/employee assistance. (Ord. 2000-04 § 1 (part),
2000)
8.38.040 Out of package sales.
   No person, business, tobacco retailer or other establishment shall sell or
offer for sale cigarettes or other tobacco or smoking products not in the
original packaging provided by the manufacturer and with all required health
warnings. (Ord. 2000-04 § 1 (part), 2000)
8.38.050 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person, business owner, or proprietor, or employee of any business or
establishment subject to the requirements of this chapter who violates any
mandatory provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, and is
subject to punishment as provided in Chapter 1.20 of this code. (Ord. 2000-04 §
1 (part), 2000)
Chapter 8.40 EXPANDED POLYSTYRENE
8.40.010 Definitions.
   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires
otherwise:
   A.   "Affordable" means that a biodegradable, compostable or recyclable
product costs no more than fifteen percent greater than the purchase cost of
comparable expanded polystyrene alternatives.
   B.   "ASTM standard" means meeting the standards of the American Society for
Testing and Materials international standard 06400 or 06868 for biodegradable
and compostable plastics, as those standards may be amended.
   C.   "Biodegradable" means compostable, or able to be broken down from a
complex to a more simple form through the action of bacteria or other living
organisms.
   D.   "City facility" means any building, structure or vehicle owned and
operated by the city of Pismo Beach, its agents, agencies, and departments.
   E.   "City contractor" means any person or entity that enters into an
agreement with the city to furnish products or services to or for the city.
   F.   "Compost" means the product of the decomposition process resulting from
the aerobic treatment of organic material.
   G.   "Compostable" means all the materials in a product or package will
break down, or otherwise become part of usable compost. Compostable disposable
food containers must meet ASTM standards for compostable materials.
   H.   "Disposable food container" means all containers that are used to hold
prepared food or drinks. Disposable food containers include clamshells, bowls,
plates, trays, cartons, cups and similar items that are intended for single
use, including, without limitation, food containers for takeout foods and/or
leftovers from partially consumed meals prepared by food providers. This does
not include single-use disposable items such as straws, cup lids, or utensils,
nor does it include single-use disposable packaging for unprepared foods.
   I.   "Events promoter" means the holder of any event permit issued by the
city pursuant to
Chapter 12.16 or any city employee(s) responsible for any city-organized event.
   J.   "Expanded polystyrene (EPS)" means blown or extruded polystyrene or
other plastic foams that are manufactured or processed by any number of
techniques, including but not limited to fusion of polymer spheres (expandable
bead polystyrene), injection molding, foam molding, or extrusion-blow molding
(extruded foam polystyrene). Expanded polystyrene shall not include recyclable
clear or solid polystyrene (oriented polystyrene).
   K.   "Expanded polystyrene product" means any item made from expanded
polystyrene that is not wholly encapsulated or encased by a more durable
material, including but not limited to coolers, ice chests, cups, bowls,
plates, trays, clamshell containers, shipping boxes, and packing peanuts.
Products made from expanded polystyrene that are wholly encapsulated or encased
by a more durable material are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
Examples of exempt products include surfboards, life preservers, and craft
supplies that are wholly encapsulated or encased by a more durable material,
and coolers encased in hard plastic. Construction products made from expanded
polystyrene are exempt from the provisions of this chapter if the products are
used in compliance with Title 15, Buildings and Construction and if they are
used in a manner preventing the expanded polystyrene from being released into
the environment.
   L.   "Food provider" means any establishment located within the city that is
a retailer of prepared food or beverages for public consumption including, but
not limited to, any store, supermarket, delicatessen, restaurant, shop, caterer
or mobile food vendor.
   M.   "Person" means an individual, business, event promoter, trust, firm,
joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit, including a government
corporation, partnership, or association.
   N.   "Polystyrene" means a thermoplastic petrochemical material utilizing
the styrene monomer. The recycle code for polystyrene is "6" or "PS," either
alone or in combination with other letters. This definition includes and
applies to all polystyrene products, regardless of whether they exhibit a
recycle code.
   O.   "Prepared food" means food or beverages that are served, packaged,
cooked, chopped, sliced, mixed, brewed, frozen, squeezed or otherwise prepared
within the city. Prepared food does not include raw, butchered meats, fish and/
or poultry sold from a butcher case or similar food establishment.
   P.   "Recyclable" means any material that is specified in the franchise
agreement with the city's solid waste removal provider including, but not
limited to, aluminum, tin and bi-metal cans, clear and colored glass
containers, high density polyethylene (HOPE), polyethylene terephthalate (PET),
clear or solid polystyrene (oriented polystyrene), corrugated cardboard and
mixed paper.
   Q.   "Vendor'' means any store or business that sells or offers goods or
merchandise, located or operating within the city of Pismo Beach, including
those referenced in the definition of "food provider."
(Ord. O-2015-008 § 1 (part), 2015)
8.40.020 Expanded polystyrene disposable food containers prohibited.
   A.   Food providers and vendors within the city of Pismo Beach may not
provide prepared food in, or provide separately, any disposable food container
made from expanded polystyrene, except as permitted in Section
8.40.050.
   B.   Disposable food containers made from expanded polystyrene shall not be
used in any city facilities.
   C.   City contractors in the performance of city contracts and events
promoters may not provide prepared food in disposable food containers made from
expanded polystyrene.
(Ord. O-2015-008 § 1 (part), 2015)
8.40.030 Required biodegradable, compostable, or recyclable disposable food
containers.
   A.   Food providers and vendors within the city utilizing disposable food
containers shall use biodegradable, compostable or recyclable food container
products.
   B.   All city facilities utilizing disposable food containers shall use
biodegradable, compostable or recyclable food container products.
   C.   City contractors and events promoters utilizing disposable food
containers shall use biodegradable, compostable, or recyclable food container
products while in the performance of city contracts and events.
(Ord. O-2015-008 § 1 (part), 2015)
8.40.040 Prohibited sales.
   No vendor or events promoter in the city shall sell or otherwise provide any
expanded polystyrene product, except as permitted in Section
8.40.050.
(Ord. O-2015-008 § 1 (part), 2015)
8.40.050 Exemptions.
   A.   The city manager or designee may exempt a vendor or food provider from
the requirements set forth in Section
8.40.020A. for a single, six-month period upon written application by the
vendor or food provider showing that this chapter would create an undue
financial hardship or practical difficulty. The city manager's decision shall
be in writing, and the decision shall be final and not subject to appeal. The
city manager or designee may approve the exemption application in whole or in
part, with or without conditions.
   B.   The city manager or designee may exempt a vendor or food provider from
the requirements set forth in Section
8.40.020A. if the vendor or food provider demonstrates in writing a public
health and safety requirement or medical necessity to use a disposable food
container product otherwise prohibited by this chapter. The city manager's
decision shall be in writing, and the decision shall be final and not subject
to appeal. The city manager or designee may approve the exemption application
in whole or in part, with or without conditions.
   C.   An exemption application under subsections A. or B. shall include all
information necessary for the city manager or designee to make a decision,
including but not limited to documentation showing factual support for the
claimed exemption. The city manager or designee may require the applicant to
provide additional information.
   D.   Foods prepared and packaged in expanded polystyrene products outside
the city and sold inside the city are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
   E.   Raw meat, fish and other raw food trays made of expanded polystyrene
are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   In a situation deemed by the city manager to be an emergency for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety, city facilities,
food providers, city contractors and vendors doing business with the city shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2015-008 § 1 (part), 2015)
8.40.060 Violations.
   A.   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter by any person is
subject to administrative fines as provided in
Chapter 1.24.
   B.   For a first violation, the city manager or designee may allow the
violating food provider or vendor, in lieu of payment of the administrative
fine, to submit receipts demonstrating the food provider's or vendor's post-
citation purchase of biodegradable, compostable, or recyclable products in an
amount equal to the amount of the administrative fine levied under
Chapter 1.24.
   C.   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other law,
any violation of this chapter may be remedied by a civil action brought by the
city attorney, including but not limited to administrative or judicial nuisance
abatement proceedings, civil or criminal code enforcement proceedings, and
suits for injunctive relief. The remedies provided by this chapter are
cumulative and in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity.
(Ord. O-2015-008 § 1 (part), 2015)
       Title 9 PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS AND WELFARE
Chapter 9.04 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL REGULATIONS
9.04.010 Definitions.
   Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them:
“Alcohol” means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
“Alcoholic beverage” includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
“Alley” means every way set apart for public travel except streets, bridle
paths, footpaths and the city pier.
“Public place” shall mean any of the following locations that are not licensed
for the consumption of alcoholic beverages at such location: alley, street,
highway, sidewalk, pier, beaches, park, parkway, parking lot, playground,
school grounds, bus station, or any other place, whether on private or public
property, to which the general public is invited or to which the general public
has access.
“Sidewalk” means that portion of a street between the curblines and the
adjacent property lines set aside for pedestrian travel.
“Street or highway” is a way or place, of whatever nature, publicly maintained
for purposes of vehicular traffic.
(Ord. O-2015-007 § 2 (part), 2015)
9.04.020 Possession of alcoholic beverage unlawful when.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage upon
any public place.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to have in his possession or on his
person any bottle, glass, can or other receptacle containing any alcoholic
beverage, including wine or beer, which has been opened or a seal broken or the
contents of which have been partially removed, in any public place within the
city.
   C.   This section shall not be construed or interpreted as applicable to any
act or acts prohibited or punishable by state law, but shall be limited to
permitted subjects of local regulation not preempted by state law.
   D.   A violation of this section is an infraction. Any person convicted of
an infraction under the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by the
fine specified in Municipal Code Chapter 1.20. (Ord. O-2024-001 § 2, 2024: Ord.
O-2015-007 § 2 (part), 2015)
9.04.030 Selling, serving, consuming an alcoholic beverage on city
property—Permit.
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9.04.020, the city manager or
a designee may issue a permit to allow a person or entity to sell, furnish,
dispense, serve, and consume alcoholic beverages upon property or in an area
that the city owns, controls, or operates—including a public street, sidewalk,
alley, park, playground, recreation area, building, or facility—when all of the
following conditions are met:
   1.   The applicant:
   a.   Provides general liability insurance and liquor liability insurance
which:
   i.   Comply with the city’s insurance requirements; and
   ii.   The risk manager or city attorney reviews and approves;
   b.   Obtains all permits, licenses, and authorizations from, and complies
with all applicable laws, regulations, and requirements of, the California
Department of Alcohol Beverage Control; and
   c.   Satisfies all other requirements for obtaining the city permit;
   2.   The proposed activity or use will not unreasonably interfere with or
detract from:
   a.   The general public’s use and enjoyment of the property or area; and
   b.   The public health, safety, or welfare;
   3.   The proposed activity or use:
   a.   Is not reasonably likely to result in violence to persons or property,
or serious harm to the public; and
   b.   Will not entail an extraordinary expense or operation by the city; and
   4.   The facility desired:
   a.   Has not been reserved for another activity for the same time and place;
and
   b.   Is capable of accommodating the proposed activity or use.
   B.   The city manager or a designee may prepare, adopt, amend, repeal, and
enforce rules, regulations, or procedures for implementing and administering
this section.
(Ord. O-2015-007 § 2 (part), 2015)
9.04.040 Violation—Penalty.
No person shall violate any provisions or fail to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter. Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.04.020,
any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the
mandatory requirements of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person
convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not exceeding six (6) months or
by both such fine and imprisonment. Each such person shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of any provision of this chapter is committed, continued, or
permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly. (Ord. O-2024-001
§ 3, 2024: Ord. O-2015-007 § 2 (part), 2015)
Chapter 9.05
SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF CERTAIN SYNTHETIC DRUGS PROHIBITED
9.05.010 Purpose and intent.
   A.   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide the city with
measures to address the dangers to the community posed by synthetic drugs that
are not regulated by state or federal law.
   B.   The city council finds the dangers of synthetic drugs, which have been
documented to cause hallucinations, agitations, psychosis, aggression, suicidal
and homicidal ideations, and death, require regulation.
   C.   This chapter shall not apply to any activity already regulated by state
or federal drug laws, or any other applicable state or federal law or
regulation.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
9.05.020 Definitions.
   The definitions and provisions contained in this section shall govern the
construction of words and phrases used in this chapter. The definition of each
word or phrase shall constitute, to the extent applicable, the definition of
each word or phrase which is derived from it, or from which it is a derivative,
as the case may be.
   A.   "Business" shall have the same meaning as the term is defined in
Chapter 5.04 of this code.
   B.   "Distribute," "distributing," and "distribution" shall mean to furnish,
give away, exchange, transfer, deliver or supply, whether for monetary gain or
not.
   C.   "Person" shall include any natural person, business, firm, company,
corporation, public corporation, club, trust, partnership, association and/or
similar organization.
   D.   "Possess," "possessing," and "possession" shall mean to have for
consumption, distribution, or sale in one's actual or constructive custody or
control, or under one's authority or power, whether such custody, control,
authority and/or power be exercised solely or jointly with others.
   E.   "Provide," "providing," and "provision" shall mean offering to
distribute or sell a product or substance to any person.
   F.   "Psychoactive bath salts" shall mean any crystalline or powder product
that contains a synthetic chemical compound that, when consumed, elicits
psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects. The term "psychoactive bath
salts" includes without limitation:
   1.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects and
contain any of the following substances:
   (a)   Salvia Divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as Salvia Divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
   (b)   Cathinone (2-amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone), 4-methylmethcathinone (2
methylamino-1- (4-methylphenyl)propan-1-one), 4 methoxymethcathinone (1-(4-
methoxyphenyl)-2(methylamine)propan-1-o ne), MDPV (methylenedioxypyrovalerone),
MDMA (3, 4- methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine), methylene (3,4-methylenedioxy-
N-methylcathinone), methcathinone (2-(methylamino)-1-phenyl-propan-1-one),
flephedrone (4 fluoromethcathinone), 3-FMC (3-fluoromethcathinone),
ethcathinone (2-ethylamino-1-phenyl-propan-1-one), butylone (-keto-N-
methylbenzodioxolylbutamine), a-PPP (a-pyrrolidinopropiophenone), MPPP(4-
methyl- pyrrolidinopropiophenone), MDPPP (3',4' methylenedioxy-
apyrrolidinopropiophenon), a-PVP (1-phenyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-1-pentanone),
naphyrone (1-naphthalen-2-yl-2-pyrrolidin-1-ylpentan-1-one ), 6-APDB (6
(2aminopropyl)2,3 dihydrobenzo-furan), and analogs of MDA (3,4-
methylenedioxymethamphetamine);
   (c)   Any derivative of the above listed compounds;
   (d)   Any synthetic substance and its isomers with a chemical structure
similar to the above listed compounds;
   (e)   Any chemical alteration of the above listed compounds; or
   (f)   Any other substantially similar chemical structure or compound; and
   2.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects and
are marketed under any of the following trade names: Bliss, Blizzard, Blue
Silk, Bonzai Grow, Charge Plus, Charlie, Cloud Nine, Euphoria, Hurricane, Ivory
Snow, Ivory Wave, Lunar Wave, Ocean, Ocean Burst, Pixie Dust, Posh, Pure Ivory,
Purple Wave, Red Dove, Scarface, Snow Leopard, Stardust, Vanilla Sky, White
Dove, White Night, and White Lightning.
   3.   The term "psychoactive bath salts" shall not include any product,
substance, material, compound, mixture or preparation that is specifically
excepted by the California Uniform Controlled Substances Act ("UCSA") (Health
and Safety Code §§ 11000 et seq.), listed in one of the UCSA's schedules of
controlled substances (Health and Safety Code §§ 11053-11058), regulated by one
of the UCSA's Synthetic Drug Laws (Health and Safety Code §§ 11357.5, 11375.5
and 11401), regulated by the Federal Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA") (21
USC §§ 801 et seq.) or approved by the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA").
   G.   "Psychoactive herbal incense" shall mean any organic product consisting
of plant material that contains a synthetic stimulant compound that, when
consumed, elicits psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects. The term
"psychoactive herbal incense" includes without limitation:
   1.   Products that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects and
contain any of the following substances:
   (a)   Cannabicyclohexanol (2-[(1R,3S)-3- hydroxycyclohexyl]- 5-(2
methylnonan-2-yl)phenol), JWH-018 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)
methanone), JWH-073 (naphthalen-l-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl)methanone), JWH-200 (1-
(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl) naphthalen-1-ylmethanone, HU-210 or 1.1-
dimethylheptyl- 11-hydroxy-delta8-tetrahydrocannabinol) (6aR,10aR)-9-
(Hydroxymethyl)- 6,6 dimethyl-3-(2-mehtyloctan-2-yl)- 6a ,7, 10, 10a tetra-
hydrobenzo[c] chromen-1-ol), CP 47, 497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3- hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-
methyloctan- 2-yl)phenol) and the dimethylhexyl, dimethyloctyl and
dimethylnonyl homologues of CP-47, 497, AM-2201 (1-[(5- fluoropentyl)-1H-indol-
3-yl]-(naphthalen-1-yl)me thanone), 1-Pentyl-3 (2- methoxyphenylacetyl)indole
(also known as JWH-250), 1-Hexyl-3-(1- naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-
019), 1-Pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-398), N-
benzylpiperazine (also known as BZP), 1-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine
(also known as TFMPP);
   (b)   Any derivative of the above listed compounds;
   (c)   Any synthetic substance and its isomers with a chemical structure
similar to the above listed compounds;
   (d)   Any chemical alteration of the above listed compounds;
   (e)   Any other substantially similar chemical structure or compound; or
   (f)   Any other synthetic cannabinoid; and
   2.   Products that elicit psychoactive psychotropic euphoric effects and are
marketed under any of the following trade names: Scooby Snax, K2, K3, Spice,
Genie, Smoke, Potpourri, Buzz, Spice 99, Voodoo, Pulse, Hush, Mystery,
Earthquake, Stinger, Ocean Blue, Serenity, Fake Weed, and Black Mamba.
   3.   The term "psychoactive herbal incense" shall not include any product,
substance, material, compound, mixture or preparation that is specifically
excepted by the California Uniform Controlled Substances Act ("UCSA") (Health
and Safety Code §§ 11000 et seq.), listed in one of the UCSA's schedules of
controlled substances (Health and Safety Code §§ 11053-11058), regulated by one
of the UCSA's Synthetic Drug Laws (Health and Safety Code §§ 11357.5, 11375.5
and 11401), regulated by the Federal Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA") (21
USC §§ 801 et seq.) or approved by the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA").
   H.   "Psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects" shall mean affecting
the central nervous system or brain function to change perception, mood,
consciousness, cognition, and/or behavior in ways that are similar to the
effects of cocaine, methylphenidate or amphetamines.
   I.   "Psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric effects" shall mean affecting
the central nervous system or brain function to change perception, mood,
consciousness, cognition, and/or behavior in ways that are similar to the
effects of cannabis.
   J.   "Sell," "selling," and "sale" shall mean to furnish, exchange,
transfer, deliver, or supply for monetary gain.
   K.   "Synthetic drug" shall include psychoactive bath salts and psychoactive
herbal incense, as those terms are defined hereinabove.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
9.05.030 Possession of synthetic drugs prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to possess any synthetic drug within the
city.
   B.   The enforcing officer may consider any of the following evidentiary
factors to determine if the product is a synthetic drug:
   1.   The product is not suitable for its marketed use (such as crystalline
or powder being marketed as "glass cleaner");
   2.   The product contains a warning label that is not typically present on
products that are used for that product's marketed use (such as "not for human
consumption," "not for purchase by minors," or "does not contain chemicals
banned by section 11357.5");
   3.   The product resembles an illicit street drug (such as cocaine,
methamphetamine or marijuana); or
   4.   The product's name or packaging uses images or slang referencing an
illicit drug.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
9.05.040 Public nuisance.
   A.   The storage, provision, sale, or distribution of any synthetic drug
from any property, structure, or building in the city and any possession of any
synthetic drug in the city is declared to be a public nuisance.
   B.   Civil remedies available; remedies cumulative. In addition to the
penalties provided in Title 12, any violation of any provision of this chapter
shall constitute a public nuisance and may be abated by the city by civil
process by means of a restraining order, a preliminary or permanent injunction,
or in any manner provided by law for the abatement of such nuisance. All
remedies herein are cumulative and non-exclusive.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
9.05.050 Confiscation of synthetic drugs.
   Because the use of synthetic drugs has been documented to cause
hallucinations, agitation, psychosis, aggression, suicidal and homicidal
ideations, cannibalism, and death, any violation of this chapter presents a
grave and imminent danger not only to the person consuming the synthetic drug,
but also to the public at large. Any police officer who issues a criminal
citation under this chapter shall confiscate any synthetic drugs and store
them, pending the conclusion of the criminal case.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
9.05.060 Suspension or revocation of business license.
   No person holding a validly issued city business license and owning or
operating a business in the city may use that business to provide, distribute,
or sell any synthetic drug or any substance claimed or represented to be a
synthetic drug. A violation of this chapter by the holder of a validly issued
city business license shall constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of
a business license in accordance with the procedures set forth in Title 3 of
this code.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
9.05.070 Penalties.
   A.   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter is a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
exceeding six months, or by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars, or by
both, provided that the city attorney may specify in the accusatory pleading
that the offense shall be an infraction if he/she determines that such action
would be in the interest of justice.
   B.   Each person committing, causing, or maintaining a violation of this
chapter or failing to comply with the requirements set forth herein shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion
of which any violation of any provision of this chapter is committed,
continued, maintained, or permitted by such person and shall be punished
accordingly.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
9.05.080 Seizure of evidence.
   Any products or substances possessed in violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be seized and stored in accordance with law.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
9.05.090 Exclusions.
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully prescribed
or to intoxicating chemical compounds that have been approved by the Federal
Food and Drug Administration or are specifically permitted by California law.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to drugs or substances that are prohibited
by state or federal law, including without limitation, the State Synthetic Drug
Laws, and the Federal Controlled Substances Act.
   C.   This chapter shall not be deemed to prohibit any act that is permitted,
prohibited, or preempted by any state or federal law or regulation.
(Ord. O-2016-001 § 1 (part), 2016)
Chapter 9.06 MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES
9.06.010 Definitions.
   A "medical marijuana dispensary" is defined as any facility in a single
fixed location where a primary caregiver makes available, sells, transmits,
gives or otherwise provides medical marijuana, or cannabis, for medical
purposes to two or more qualified patients or persons with an identification
card in accordance with Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5.
   A "medical marijuana dispensary" shall not include the following uses, as
long as the location of such uses area is otherwise regulated by this Code or
applicable law: a clinic licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 of Division 2 of the
Health and Safety Code, a health care facility license pursuant to Chapter 2 of
Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a residential care facility for
persons with chronic life-threatening illness licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.01
of the Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a residential care facility
for the elderly licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.2 of the Division 2 of the
Health and Safety Code, a residential hospice, or a home health agency licensed
pursuant to Chapter 8 of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, as long as
any such use complies strictly with applicable California and federal law.
   "Primary caregiver" shall have the same definition as in California Health
and Safety Code §11362.7(d), as it may be amended from time to time.
   "Qualified patient" shall have the same definition as in California Health
and Safety Code §11362.7(f), as it may be amended from time to time.
   "Identification card" shall have the same definition as in California Health
and Safety Code §11362.7(g), as it may be amended from time to time.
   "Person with an identification card" shall have the same definition as in
California Health and Safety Code §11362.7(h), as it may be amended from time
to time. (Ord. 07-01 § 1 (part), 2007)
9.06.020 Medical marijuana dispensary—Prohibited.
   A medical marijuana dispensary shall not be permitted within the city. (Ord.
07-01 § 1 (part), 2007)
9.06.030 ViolationSeparate offense.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any such
person commits, continues, permits, or causes a violation thereof, and shall be
penalized accordingly. (Ord. 07-01 § 1 (part), 2007)
9.06.040 Penalties.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is a misdemeanor unless the city
attorney authorizes issuance of an infraction citation or files a complaint
charging the offense as an infraction; or the court, upon the prosecutorial
recommendation of the city attorney, determines that the offense is an
infraction. (Ord. 07-01 § 1 (part), 2007)
9.06.050 Civil injunction.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be and is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and contrary to the public interest and shall,
at the discretion of the city, create a cause of action for injunctive relief.
(Ord. 07-01 § 1 (part), 2007)
Chapter 9.07
MARIJUANA REGULATION
9.07.010 Purpose and intent.
   A.   Business and Professions Code Section 26200 authorizes local
jurisdictions to adopt and enforce local ordinances governing marijuana-related
businesses, including the power to completely prohibit the establishment or
operation of marijuana-related businesses otherwise licensed by state
authorities under California law. Health and Safety Code Section 11362.2
authorizes a city to completely prohibit the outdoor cultivation of marijuana.
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to prohibit the outdoor cultivation,
manufacturing, processing, laboratory testing, labeling, storing and wholesale
and retail distribution and sale of marijuana in a manner that protects the
health, safety and welfare of the city consistent with Proposition 64, also
known as the Control, Regulate, and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Act ("AUMA").
This chapter is not intended to interfere with a patient's right to obtain
medical marijuana, as provided for in California Health & Safety Code Section
11362.5, nor does it criminalize marijuana possession or cultivation as
otherwise permitted pursuant to California law.
   B.   Non-conflicting enactment. No part of this chapter shall be deemed to
conflict with federal law as contained in the Controlled Substances Act, 21
U.S.C. §§ 800 et seq., nor to otherwise permit any activity that is prohibited
under that Act or any other local, state or federal law, statute, rule or
regulation.
(Ord. O-2017-001 § 2 (part), 2017)
9.07.020 Prohibition.
   Except as otherwise required by California law, outdoor cultivation,
manufacture, processing, laboratory testing, labeling, storing and wholesale
and retail distribution and sale of marijuana is prohibited within the City.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the mobile delivery of
medicinal marijuana in full compliance with applicable California law.
(Ord. O-2017-001 § 2 (part), 2017)
9.07.030 Penalties.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is a misdemeanor unless the city
attorney authorizes issuance of an infraction citation or files a complaint
charging the offense as an infraction; or the court, upon the prosecutorial
recommendation of the city attorney, determines that the offense is an
infraction. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which
any such person commits, continues, permits, or causes a violation thereof, and
shall be penalized accordingly.
(Ord. O-2017-001 § 2 (part), 2017)
9.07.040 Public Nuisance.
   In addition to any other remedies available under this Code or California
law, the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be and is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and contrary to the public interest and shall,
at the discretion of the city, create a cause of action for injunctive relief.
(Ord. O-2017-001 § 2 (part), 2017)
Chapter 9.08 LEWD FILMS
9.08.010 Definitions.
   "Knowledge" means having knowledge of the contents and character of the
patently offensive sexual conduct which appears in such lewd film.
   "Lewd film" means any motion picture film:
   1.   Which the average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find, when considered as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest; and
   2.   Which depicts or describes patently offensive representations or
descriptions of:
   a.   Ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, or
   b.   Masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the genitals or
genital area.
   Nothing contained in this subsection is intended to include or proscribe any
film which, when considered as a whole, and in the context in which it is used,
possesses serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   "Person" means any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation
or other legal entity.
   "Place" means and includes, but is not limited to, any building, structure
or place, or any separate part or portion thereof, whether permanent or not, or
the ground itself.
   "Motion picture film" means and includes any:
   1.   Film or plate negative;
   2.   Film or plate positive;
   3.   Film designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition;
   4.   Films, glass slides or transparencies, either in negative or positive
form, designed for exhibition by projection on a screen;
   5.   Video tape or any other medium used to electronically reproduce images
on a screen. (Prior code § 9.32.010)
9.08.020 Lewd films and theaters declared nuisance.
   A.   Any and every place in the city where:
   1.   Lewd films are publicly exhibited as a regular course of business, or
possessed for the purposes of such exhibition; or
   2.   A lewd film is publicly and repeatedly exhibited, or possessed for the
purpose of such exhibition, is a public nuisance.
   B.   Any and every lewd film which is publicly exhibited or possessed for
such purpose at a place which is a public nuisance under this section, is a
public nuisance per se. (Prior code § 9.32.020)
9.08.030 Notice of abatement—Knowledge of nuisance presumed.
   A.   Upon receiving notice through service of a certified copy of the
ordinance codified in this chapter and of a certified copy of the resolution
provided for in this chapter, any and every person who shall own, legally or
equitably, lease, maintain, manage, conduct, or operate a place in the city
which is declared to be a public nuisance as set forth and stated in subsection
A of Section
9.08.020 is deemed to be a person who has knowledge of such nuisance for the
purpose of this chapter and is, thereafter, responsible for its maintenance,
and shall be liable therefor.
   B.   The places and subject matter declared to be public nuisance under
Section
9.08.020 hereof shall be abated pursuant to Government Code Sections 38773 and
38773.5, Code of Civil Procedure Section 731, and Civil Code Sections 3491 and
3494, as provided for in this chapter. (Prior code § 9.32.030)
9.08.040 Action by city council.
   Upon a specific finding that a public nuisance, as defined in Section
9.08.020 of this chapter, exists in the city, the city council, in applying the
provisions of this chapter to such nuisance, shall provide for the following by
resolution:
   A.   Declare the fact that such nuisance exists;
   B.   Set forth the description or legal description and street address of
the real property which constitutes the nuisance;
   C.   Set forth a statement of facts upon which the city council declaration
of nuisance is based;
   D.   Order the revocation of all licenses and permits which have been issued
as a part of the operation of such business, subject to confirmation by the
court in the judicial proceedings required herein. Criminal proceedings for
transacting business without a license at such address shall not be filed until
the order of license revocation by the city council has been confirmed by
judicial order;
   E.   Order the city attorney to give written notice under Penal Code Section
373(a) to abate such public nuisances immediately, by terminating the
exhibition of such lewd film or films, or causing the same to be terminated;
   F.   Order the city attorney to proceed as directed in Section
9.08.050 of this chapter, and do all things necessary to abate such public
nuisance through judicial proceedings and to conclude such proceedings as
expeditiously as is permissible under the law,
   G.   Inform and give notice to persons named in subsection A of Section
9.08.030 that:
   1.   The city council has determined that a public nuisance presently exists
at such place and address, and has revoked the licenses and permits at that
place, subject to court confirmation, and that, under subsection A of Section
9.08.030, they are deemed to have knowledge thereof and are responsible
therefor,
   2.   The city council has ordered the city attorney, as provided for under
Section
9.08.050, to commence legal proceedings naming such persons as defendants in a
civil action to abate the same judicially under Civil Code Section 3494 and
Code of Civil Procedure Section 731, and to seek compensatory and punitive
damages and recovery in such action of the costs of abatement, including
investigative costs, court costs, attorney's fees and other expenses,
   3.   All lewd motion picture films being used in conducting and maintaining
such public nuisances are considered to be contraband and the subject of
forfeiture,
   4.   The lewd motion picture films which are being used in conducting and
maintaining such public nuisance will be needed at the hearing in the court
having jurisdiction of the legal proceedings brought by the city attorney,
pursuant to Evidence Code Section 1503, and
   5.   From and after service on the place or its manager or acting manager,
or person then in charge of such place, of a certified copy of the ordinance
codified in this chapter and a certified copy of such resolution, any and all
moneys paid as admission price to or for the exhibition or exhibitions of such
lewd motion picture films are considered to be a public nuisance, as personal
property used in conducting and maintaining such nuisance and as gain derived
from an unlawful act, contrary to the provision of Civil Code Section 2224, and
that a forfeiture of the same will be requested in the judicial proceedings
required in this chapter;
   H.   Order that a certified copy of said resolution and a certified copy of
the ordinance codified in this chapter be delivered forthwith in any manner
normally used to effectuate personal service of process as directed in Code of
Civil Procedure Sections 415.10 through 416.90, to all persons of record having
any legal or equitable interest in the real property, and to the regular or
acting manager or persons in charge of the place therein declared a public
nuisance. (Prior code § 9.32.040)
9.08.050 Action by city attorney.
   Upon a specific finding by resolution of the city council of the fact that a
public nuisance exists at a particular location, the city attorney shall:
   A.   Forthwith, but not later than five working days after passage of such
resolution, commence legal proceedings under Civil Code Sections 3491 and 3494
and Code of Civil Procedure Section 731, by the filing of a civil action
seeking the following relief:
   1.   An order that the motion picture or pictures named by the city council
are lewd, as defined in this chapter,
   2.   An order that the place named by the city council where the film or
films are being exhibited is a public nuisance and that the action taken by the
city council to revoke the licenses issued to that place of business was
lawful,
   3.   An injunction enjoining and restraining all persons maintaining such
nuisance from exhibiting in public the named lewd films at any time in the
future in the city,
   4.   An order that all positive prints of the named lewd films be forfeited
as contraband,
   5.   An accounting of all moneys paid as admission price to or for the
exhibition or exhibitions of such lewd motion picture films, from and after the
time the persons maintaining such nuisance receive a copy of the resolution of
the city council finding that a public nuisance exists, and a judgment that
such moneys are gain derived from a wrongful act, contrary to the provisions of
Civil Code Section 2224, and a public nuisance,
   6.   An order that all admission price moneys or valuable consideration
received and enumerated in the court-ordered accounting be forfeited as
required by law,
   7.   Judgment for the city for compensatory and punitive damages and for all
costs expended in abating the public nuisance, including investigative costs,
court costs, reasonable attorney's fees, and such other expenses as are
provided for in this chapter, and
   8.   All other relief as the court may deem proper;
   B.   File a notice of the pendency of the action in the office of the county
recorder of the county, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 409, giving
the names of the parties, the object of the action, and a description of the
property thereby affected. (Prior code § 9.32.050)
Chapter 9.12 PUBLIC NUDITY
9.12.010 Intent.
   The city council finds and declares that all citizens and members of the
public are entitled to use the beaches, parks and other natural resources in
the city; it is in the public interest and necessary to the public health,
safety and welfare that said beaches, parks and resources be utilized and
enjoyed by as many persons as possible; the appearance of persons thereon
without clothing and with the private parts of their bodies exposed
unreasonably interferes with the right of all persons to use and enjoy said
parks, beaches and other resources by causing many persons to leave and others
not to come to said places and by causing embarrassment, discomfort and offense
to persons living in the vicinity thereof; and such nudity imposes an
extraordinary burden on city employees charged with the maintenance and safety
thereof. It is the intent of the council to prohibit nudity in said places,
irrespective of sexual motives or conduct. (Prior code § 9.28.010)
9.12.020 Prohibited when.
   Every person who shall wilfully appear, bathe, sunbathe, walk or be on or in
any public beach or the waters adjacent thereto, park, square, preserve,
avenue, street, lane, alley or other public land within the incorporated area
of the city in a state of dress or undress in which the genitals, vulva, pubis,
pubic hair, buttocks, crease of the buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anus, anal
region or pubic hair region of any person or any portion of the female breast
at or below the areola thereof of any female person is exposed to public view
or is not covered by an opaque covering shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Prior code § 9.28.020)
Chapter 9.16 WEAPONS
9.16.010 Definition.
   "Dangerous or deadly weapon," as used in this chapter, includes, but is not
limited to, any revolver, pistol, shotgun, rifle, or firearm, which may be used
for the explosion of cartridges, and any airgun, B-B gun, gas-operated gun,
spring gun, slingshot, bow and arrow, and any weapon or device designed to
project a missile of any type with such force or velocity as to be unsafe or
dangerous to any person or property, in the city, other than:
   A.   Carried pursuant to valid permit issued by duly authorized governmental
authority; or
   B.   Any ordinary rifle or shotgun lawfully owned or possessed in a
domicile, or while being conveyed to or from such domicile for the purpose of
hunting or other legitimate use outside of the city. (Prior code § 9.84.010)
9.16.020 Discharge unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person, except in self-defense, to fire, discharge,
or cause to be emitted any projectile or missile from any dangerous or deadly
weapon in the city. This section does not apply to any police officer or member
of the armed forces of the United States in the discharge of his duty, or to
the discharge of any authorized target rifle in a shooting gallery operated,
conducted and licensed, pursuant to the ordinances of the city, or to any bow
and arrow used as a part of any authorized school or recreational program under
supervision of duly authorized instructors. (Prior code § 9.84.020)
9.16.030 Carrying knives or daggers in plain view prohibited.
   A.   As used in this section, "knife" or "dagger" includes any knife, dirk
or dagger having a blade three inches or more in length, any pick or similar
sharp tool, any straight-edge razor or any razor blade fitted to a handle.
   B.   No person shall wear or carry in plain view any knife or dagger upon
any public street or other public place or in any place open to the public.
   C.   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply where a person is
wearing or carrying a knife or dagger for use in a lawful occupation, for
lawful recreational purposes, or as a recognized religious practice, or while
the person is traveling to or returning from participation in such activity.
(Ord. 89-01 § 1, 1989: prior code § 9.84.100)
9.16.040 Possession by minor unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen years to possess,
except in his or her domicile, or while being conveyed to or from such domicile
for the purpose of hunting or other legitimate use outside of the city, any
dangerous or deadly weapon. (Prior code § 9.84.030)
9.16.050 Possession--Fighting unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person who has in his immediate physical possession
any dangerous or deadly weapon, to engage in any fight or participate in any
other rough or disorderly conduct in the city. (Prior code § 9.84.040)
9.16.060 Possession—Loitering unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person who has upon his person or in his possession
any dangerous or deadly weapon, to loiter or be about any place where
intoxicating liquors are sold or any other place or public resort. (Prior code
§ 9.84.050)
9.16.070 Confiscation by police.
   Any weapon used or possessed in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is declared to be a nuisance, and the same shall be taken from the person
violating this chapter and surrendered to the chief of police, and shall be
destroyed or otherwise disposed of as provided by the provisions of Section
12028 of the Penal Code of the state. (Prior code § 9.84.060)
9.16.080 Violation—Penalty.
   Every person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not more than six months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Prior code § 9.84.070)
Chapter 9.20 AUTOMOBILE SOUND SYSTEMS
9.20.010 Restrictions on sound level.
   A.   No driver or person in the possession of any vehicle shall operate or
permit the operation of any sound amplification system which can be heard
outside the vehicle from fifty or more feet while the vehicle is parked on any
highway or public owned parking lot or place, unless that system is being
operated to request assistance or warn of a hazardous situation.
   B.   This section does not apply to authorized emergency vehicles or
vehicles operated by gas, electric, communications or water utilities.
   C.   This section does not apply to the sound systems of vehicles in parades
or special events unless prohibited by other sections of this code. (Ord. 90-09
§ 1, 1990: prior code Ch. 9.48)
Chapter 9.24 NOISE CONTROL
9.24.010 Declaration of policy.
   A.   In order to control unnecessary, excessive and annoying noise and
vibration in the city, it is declared to be the policy of the city to prohibit
such noise and vibration generated from or by all sources as specified in this
chapter. It shall be the policy of the city to maintain quiet in those areas
which currently exhibit low noise levels and to implement programs aimed at
reducing noise in those areas within the city where noise levels are above
acceptable values.
   B.   It is determined that certain noise levels and vibrations are
detrimental to the public health, welfare and safety, and are contrary to
public interest. Therefore, the council ordains and declares that creating,
maintaining, causing or allowing to be created, caused or maintained, any noise
or vibration in a manner prohibited by or not in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter, is a public nuisance and shall be punishable as such in any
manner provided by law, including but not necessarily limited to the filing of
a civil or criminal action. (Ord. 92-23 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.24.020 Definitions.
   A.   Terminology. All terminology used in this chapter, not defined in this
chapter shall be in conformance with applicable publications of the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   B.   Definitions. The following terms shall have the following meanings when
used in this chapter:
   "A-weighted sound level" means the sound level in decibels as measured on a
sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(a) or dBA.
   "Ambient noise level" means the composite of noise from all sources near and
far. In this context, the ambient noise level constitutes the normal or
existing level of environmental noise at a given location.
   "Commercial area" means those areas designated (C-R, C-1, C-2, C-M) on the
official zoning map of the city.
   "Construction" means any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial
repair, alteration or similar action, for or of public or private rights-of-
way, structures, utilities or similar property.
   "Cumulative period" means an additive period of time composed of individual
time segments which may be continuous or interrupted.
   "Decibel" means a unit for measuring the amplitude of a sound, equal to
twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the
sound measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty micropascals.
   "Demolition" means any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-way surfaces, or similar
property.
   "Emergency work" means any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
   "Fixed noise source" means a stationary device which creates sound while
fixed or motionless, including, but not limited to, residential, agricultural,
industrial and commercial machinery and equipment, pumps, fans, compressors,
air conditioners and refrigeration equipment.
   "Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR)" means the value specified by the
manufacturer as the recommended maximum loaded weight of a single motor
vehicle. In cases where trailers and tractors are separable, the gross
combination weight rating, which is the value specified by the manufacturer as
the recommended maximum loaded weight of the combination vehicle, shall be
used.
   "Impulsive sound" means sound of short duration, usually less than one
second, with an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive
sound include explosions, drop forge impacts and the discharge of firearms.
   "Intrusive noise" means that noise which intrudes over and above the
existing ambient noise at a given location. The relative intrusiveness of a
sound depends upon its amplitude, duration, frequency and time of occurrence,
and tonal or informational content as well as the prevailing ambient noise
level.
   "Mobile noise source" means any noise source other than a fixed noise
source.
   "Motor vehicle" means and includes any and all self-propelled vehicles as
defined in the California Vehicle Code, including all on-highway type motor
vehicles subject to registration under the code, and all off-highway type motor
vehicles subject to identification under the code.
   "Muffler or sound dissipative device" means a device consisting of a series
of chambers or baffle plates, or other mechanical design, for the purpose of
receiving exhaust gas from an internal combustion engine, and effective in
reducing noise.
   "Noise control office(r) (NCO)" means the municipal agencies or departments,
having lead responsibility for this chapter, or their employees.
   "Noise disturbance" means any sound which (a) endangers or injures the
safety or health of human beings or animals, or (b) annoys or disturbs
reasonable persons of normal sensitivities, or (c) endangers or injures
personal or real property, or (d) violates the factors set forth in Section
9.24.060 of this chapter. Compliance with the quantitative standards as listed
in this chapter shall constitute elimination of a noise disturbance.
   "Noise zone" means and includes any defined areas or regions of a generally
consistent land use wherein the ambient noise levels are within a range of 5dB.
   "Person" means any individual, association, partnership or corporation, and
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of a
state or any political subdivision of a state.
   "Powered model vehicle" means any self-propelled, airborne, waterborne or
landborne plane, vessel or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons,
including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or rocket.
   "Structure" means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on or in the ground, or attachment to something having location on the
ground, including but not limited to swimming pools, buildings, roads, pipes,
conduit, telephone lines and electrical transmission and distribution lines,
driveways, paving, parking spaces or at-grade patios. (Ord. 92-23 § 1 (part),
1992)
9.24.030 Authority of the noise control officer(s) (NCO).
   Lead (Agency/Official). The noise control program established by this
chapter shall be administered by the building official and the police
department. (Ord. 92-23 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.24.040 General noise regulations.
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, and in addition
thereto, it shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or negligently make or
continue, or cause to be made or continued, or permit or allow to be made or
continued any noise which disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or
which causes any discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of normal
sensitivity in the area.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for any activity that may violate this
section.
   C.   The factors which may be considered in determining whether a violation
of the provisions of this section exists include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   1.   The sound level of the noise disturbance;
   2.   The sound level of the ambient noise;
   3.   The proximity of the noise to residential and visitor serving sleeping
facilities;
   4.   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
   5.   The number of persons affected by the noise source;
   6.   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
   7.   The duration of the noise and its tonal, informational or musical
content;
   8.   Whether the noise is continuous, recurrent or intermittent;
   9.   Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or noncommercial
activity. (Ord. 92-23 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.24.050 Prohibited acts.
   A.   Noise Disturbances Prohibited. No person shall make, continue or cause
to be made or continued, or permit or allow to be made or continued, any noise
disturbance in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty
feet from the noisemaker; provided, nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit any noise which does not penetrate beyond the boundaries of the
noisemaker's own premises or does not constitute an unreasonable disturbance to
people lawfully on such premises.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions. The acts, as set forth in subsections B 1
through B 8 of this section, and the causing or permitting thereof, are
declared to be in violation of this chapter.
   1.   Radios, Television Sets, Musical Instruments and Similar Devices.
Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
television set, phonograph, drum, musical instrument or similar device which
produces or reproduces sound in excess of the sound levels described in this
chapter.
   a.   Between the hours of ten p.m. and seven a.m. in such a manner as to
create a noise disturbance across a residential and visitor serving or
commercial real property line or at any time to violate the provisions of
Section
9.24.060 of this chapter, except for activities for which an exception has been
issued by the noise control office.
   b.   In such manner as to exceed the levels set forth for public space in
Table 1 of Section
9.24.060, measured at a distance of at least fifty feet (fifteen meters) from
such device operating on a public right-of-way or public space.
   2.   Loudspeakers (Amplified Sound). Using or operating for any purpose any
loudspeaker, loudspeaker system or similar device between the hours of ten p.m.
and seven a.m., such that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance
across a residential and visitor serving real property line, or at any time
violates the provisions of Section
9.24.060 of this chapter, except for any noncommercial public speaking, public
assembly or other activity for which an exception has been issued by the noise
control office.
   3.   Street Sales. Offering for sale, selling anything or advertising by
shouting or outcry within any residential and visitor serving or commercial
area of the city except by exception issued by the noise control office.
   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
selling by outcry of merchandise, food and beverages at licensed sporting
events, parades, fairs, circuses or other similar licensed or permitted public
entertainment events.
   4.   Loading and Unloading. Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other
handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials or similar objects
between the hours of ten p.m. and seven a.m. in such a manner as to cause a
noise disturbance across a residential or visitor serving real property line or
at any time to violate the provisions of Section
9.24.060 of this chapter.
   5.   Construction/Demolition.
   a.   Operating or causing the operation of any tools or equipment used in
construction, drilling, repair, alteration or demolition work between weekday
hours of seven p.m. and seven a.m., or any time on Sundays or holidays, such
that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential or
commercial real property line, except for emergency work of public service
utilities or by exception issued by the noise control officer. This section
shall not apply to the use of domestic power tools as specified in subsection B
8 of this section.
   b.   Noise Restrictions at Affected Properties. Where technically and
economically feasible, construction activities shall be conducted in such a
manner that the maximum noise levels at affected properties will not exceed
those listed in the following schedule:
   i.   At Residential Properties.
    Mobile Equipment
   Maximum noise levels for nonscheduled, intermittent, short-term operation
(less than ten days) of mobile equipment:
 
                        Single-Family Multi-Family         Mixed Residential/
                        Residential   Residential          Commercial
                        (R-1)         (R-2, R-3, R-4, R-R, (C-R, C-1, C-2, C-M)
                                      OSR, OS1)
Daily, except Sundays
and legal holidays 7:00 75 dBA        80 dBA               85 dBA
a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Daily, 7:00 p.m. to 7:
00 a.m. and all day     60 dBA        65 dBA               70 dBA
Sunday and legal
holidays
 
   Stationary Equipment
   Maximum noise levels for repetitively scheduled and relatively long-term
operation (periods of ten days or more) of stationary equipment.
 
                        Single-Family Multi-Family Mixed Residential/
                        Residential   Residential  Commercial
Daily, except Sundays
and legal holidays 7:00 60 dBA        65 dBA       70 dBA
a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Daily, 7:00 p.m. to 7:
00 a.m. and all day     50 dBA        55 dBA       60 dBA
Sunday and legal
holidays
 
   ii.   At Business Properties.
    Mobile Equipment
   Maximum noise levels for nonscheduled, intermittent, short-term operation of
mobile equipment: daily, including Sunday and legal holidays, all hours,
maximum of 85 dBA.
    Stationary Equipment
   Maximum noise levels for repetitively scheduled and relatively long-term
operations of stationary equipment: daily, including Sundays and legal
holidays, all hours; maximum of 75 dBA.
   All mobile stationary internal combustion engine powered equipment or
machinery shall be equipped with suitable exhaust and air-take silencers in
proper working order.
    6.   Vibration. Operating or permitting the operation of any device that
creates a vibration which is above the vibration perception threshold of an
individual at or beyond the property boundary of the source if on private
property or at one hundred fifty feet (forty-six meters) from the source if on
a public space or public right-of-way.
   7.   Powered Model Vehicles. Operating or permitting the operation of
powered model vehicles:
   a.   Between the hours of seven p.m. and seven a.m. so as to create a noise
disturbance across a residential and visitor serving commercial real property
line or at any time to violate the provisions of Section
9.24.070 of this chapter.
   b.   In such a manner as to exceed the levels set forth for public space
land use in Table 1 of Section
9.24.060 measured at a distance not less than one hundred feet (thirty meters)
from any point on the path of a vehicle operating on public space or public
right-of-way.
   8.   Emergency Signaling Devices.
   a.   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors of any
fire, burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, except for emergency purposes or for testing, as
provided in subsection B 9 b of this section.
   b.   i.   Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall not occur
before seven a.m. or after seven p.m. Any such testing shall use only the
minimum cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed sixty seconds.
   ii.   Testing of the complete emergency signaling system, including the
functioning of the signaling device, and the personnel response to the
signaling device, shall not occur more than once in each calendar month. Such
testing shall not occur before seven a.m. or after ten p.m. The time limit
specified in subsection B 8 b i of this section shall not apply to such
complete system testing.
   c.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm unless such alarm is terminated within
thirty minutes of activation.
   9.   Domestic Power Tools, Machinery.
   a.   Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically-powered saw,
sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool or similar tool between ten p.m.
and seven a.m., so as to create a noise disturbance across a residential or
commercial real property line.
   b.   Any motor, machinery, pump, such as swimming pool equipment, etc.,
shall be sufficiently enclosed or muffled and maintained so as to not create a
noise disturbance in accordance with Section
9.24.060.
   10.   Residential Air-Conditioning or Air-Handling Equipment. Operating or
permitting the operation of any air-conditioning or air-handling equipment in
such a manner as to exceed any of the following sound levels:
 
                           Units Installed Before 1- Units Installed on or
                           1-80                      After 1-1-80
                           dBA                       dBA
Measurement Location  
Any point on neighboring
property line, five feet
above grade level, no      60                        55
closer than three feet
from any wall
Outside the neighboring
living area window nearest
the equipment location,
not more than three feet   55                        50
from the window opening,
but at least three feet
from any other surface
 
(Ord. 92-93 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.24.060 Exterior noise limits.
   A.   Maximum Permissible Sound Levels at Receiving Land Use.
   1.   The noise standards for the various categories of land use identified
by the noise control office(r) as presented in Table 1 of this section shall,
unless otherwise specifically indicated, apply to all such property within a
designated zone.
   2.   No person shall cause or allow to cause, any source of sound at any
location within the incorporated city or allow the creation of any noise on
property owned, leased, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which
causes the noise level when measured on any other property, either incorporated
or unincorporated, to exceed:
   a.   The noise standard for that land use as specified in Table 1 of this
section for a cumulative period of more than thirty minutes in any hour; or
   b.   The noise standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than
fifteen minutes in any hour; or
   c.   The noise standard plus ten dB for a cumulative period of more than
five minutes in any hour; or
   d.   The noise standard plus fifteen dB for a cumulative period of more than
one minute in any hour; or
   e.   The noise standard plus twenty dB for any period of time.
   3.   i.   If the measured ambient level differs from that permissible within
any of the first four noise limit categories of this section, the allowable
noise exposure standard shall be adjusted in five dB increments in each
category as appropriate to encompass or reflect said ambient noise level.
   ii.   In the event the ambient noise level exceeds the fifth noise limit
category, the maximum allowable noise level under this category shall be
increased to reflect the maximum ambient noise level.
   4.   If the measurement location is on a boundary between two different
zones, the noise level limit applicable to the lower noise zone plus five dB
shall apply.
   5.   If possible, the ambient noise should be measured at the same location
along the property line utilized in this section, with the alleged offending
noise source inoperative. If for any reason the alleged offending noise source
cannot be shut down, the ambient noise may be estimated by performing a
measurement in the same general area of the source but at a sufficient distance
such that the noise from the source is at least ten dB below the ambient in
order that only the ambient level be measured. If the difference between the
ambient plus the noise source and noise source is five to ten dB, then the
level of the source itself can be reasonably determined by subtracting a one
decibel correction to account for the contribution of the source.
   B.   Correction for Character of Sound. In the event the alleged offensive
noise, as determined by the noise control officer, contains a steady, audible
tone such as whine, screech or hum, or is a repetitive noise such as hammering
or riveting, or contains music or speech, the standard limits set forth in
Table 1 of this section shall be reduced by 5 dB.
Table No. 1
EXTERIOR NOISE LIMITS
(Levels Not To Be Exceeded More ThanThirty Minutes In Any Hour)
Zoning Category Time Period Noise Level (dBA)
Table No. 1
EXTERIOR NOISE LIMITS
(Levels Not To Be Exceeded More ThanThirty Minutes In Any Hour)
Zoning Category                        Time Period            Noise Level (dBA)
R1 and R2, OSR, OS1, Low Density       10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 50
Residential
                                     7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 55
R3 and R4, RR High Density Residential 10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 50
                                       7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 55
C-1, C-2, C-M, C-R Commercial          10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 60
                                       7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 65
 
(Ord. 92-23 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.24.070 Interior noise standards.
   A.   Maximum Permissible Dwelling Interior Sound Levels.
   1.   The interior noise standards for multi-family residential dwellings as
presented in Table 1 of this section shall apply, unless otherwise specifically
indicated, within all such dwellings with windows in their normal seasonal
configuration.
 
Table No. 1
Noise Zone Type of Land Use Time Interval Allowable Interior Noise Level (dBA)
Zones      Residential      7:00 a.m.     40
           Land Uses        7:00 a.m. -   45
                            10:00 p.m.
 
   2.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated within a dwelling unit,
any source of sound or allow the creation of any noise which causes the noise
level when measured inside a neighboring receiving dwelling unit to exceed:
   a.   The noise standard as specified in Table 1 of this section for a
cumulative period of more than five minutes in any hour; or
   b.   The noise standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than
one minute in any hour; or
   c.   The noise standard plus ten dB or the maximum measured ambient, for any
period of time.
   3.   If the measured ambient level differs from that permissible within any
of the noise limit categories of this section, the allowable noise exposure
standard shall be adjusted in five dB increments in each category as
appropriate to reflect the ambient noise level.
   B.   Correction for Character of Sound. In the event the alleged offensive
noise, as determined by the noise control officer, contains a steady, audible
tone such as a whine, screech or hum, or is a repetitive noise such as
hammering or riveting, or contains music or speech conveying informational
content, the standard limits set forth in Table 1 of this section shall be
reduced by five dB. (Ord. 92-23 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.24.080 Motor vehicle noise limits.
   A.   Refuse Collection Vehicles. No person shall collect refuse with a
refuse collection vehicle between the hours of seven p.m. and six-thirty a.m.
within or adjacent to a residential area.
   B.   Motorized Recreational Vehicles Operating Off Public Right-of-way. No
person shall operate or cause to be operated any motorized recreational vehicle
off public right-of-way in such a manner that the sound levels emitted
therefrom violate the provisions of Section
9.24.060 of this chapter. This section shall apply to all motorized
recreational vehicles, whether or not duly licensed and registered, including,
but not limited to, commercial or noncommercial racing vehicles, motorcycles,
go-carts, amphibious craft, campers, snowmobiles and dune buggies, but not
including motorboats.
   C.   Vehicle, Motorboat or Aircraft Repair and Testing.
   1.   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any motor vehicle,
motorboat or aircraft in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across
a residential real property line, or at any time to violate the provisions of
Section
9.24.070 of this chapter.
   2.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit, restrict,
penalize, enjoin or in any manner regulate the movement of aircraft which are
in all respects conducted in accordance with, or pursuant to, applicable
federal laws or regulations.
   D.   Standing Motor Vehicles. No person shall operate or permit the
operation of any motor vehicle with a gross weight rating (GVWR) in excess of
ten thousand pounds, or any auxiliary equipment attached to such a vehicle, for
a period longer than fifteen minutes in any hour while the vehicle is
stationary, for reasons other than traffic congestion, or a public right-of-way
or public space within one hundred fifty feet (forty-six meters) of a
residential area, between the hours of ten p.m. and seven a.m. (Ord. 92-23 § 1
(part), 1992)
9.24.090 Special provisions (exemptions).
   A.   Emergency Exemption. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
(1) the emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence
of an emergency, or (2) the emission of sound in the performance of emergency
work.
   B.   Warning Devices. Warning devices necessary for the protection of public
safety, as for example, police, fire and ambulance sirens, and train horns,
shall be exempted from the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Outdoor Activities. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows and sporting and entertainment events,
provided such events are conducted pursuant to a permit or license issued by
the city relative to the staging of the events and are consistent with the
permissible times for such activities.
   D.   Exemptions from Exterior Noise Standards. The provisions of Section
9.24.060 of this chapter shall not apply to activities covered by the following
sections:
   1.   Section
9.24.050 B 3, street sales;
   2.   Section
9.24.050 B 5, construction/demolition;
   3.   Section
9.24.050 B 9, domestic power tools, machinery;
   4.   Section
9.24.050 B 10, residential air-conditioning or air-handling equipment;
   5.   Section
9.24.080 A, refuse collection vehicles.
   E.   Federal or State Preempted Activities. Any other activity to the extent
regulation thereof has been preempted by state or federal law shall be exempted
from the regulations of this chapter. (Ord. 92-23 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.24.100 Exceptions.
   A.   Special Exceptions.
   1.   The noise control office(r) is authorized to grant exceptions from any
provision of this chapter, subject to limitations as to area, noise levels,
time limits and other terms and conditions as the noise control office(r)
determines are appropriate to protect the public health, safety and welfare
from the noise emanating therefrom. This section shall in no way affect the
duty to obtain any permit or license required by law for such activities.
   2.   Any person seeking an exception pursuant to this section shall file an
application with the noise control office(r). The application shall contain
information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity
for which the exception is sought into compliance with this chapter would
constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community, or on
other persons. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by
council resolution. A separate application shall be filed for each noise
source; provided, however, that several mobile sources under common ownership,
or several fixed sources on a single property may be combined into one
application. Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by allowance of
the exception may file a statement with the noise control office(r) containing
any information to support his claim. If at any time the noise control office
(r) finds that a sufficient controversy exists regarding an application, a
public hearing will be held.
   3.   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the noise
control office(r) shall balance denial as a hardship on the applicant against
(a) the adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of other persons
affected; (b) the adverse impact on property affected; and (c) any other
adverse impacts of granting the exception. Applicants for exceptions and
persons contesting exceptions shall be required to submit such information as
the noise control office(r) may reasonably require. In granting or denying an
application, the noise control office(r) shall keep on public file a copy of
the decision and the reasons for denying or granting the exception.
   4.   Exceptions shall be granted by notice to the applicant containing all
necessary conditions, including a time limit on the permitted activity. The
exception shall not become effective until all conditions are agreed to by the
applicant. Noncompliance with any condition of the exception shall terminate
the exception and subject the person holding it to those provisions of this
chapter for which the exception was granted.
   5.   An exception will not exceed one hundred eight days from the date on
which it was granted. Application for extension of time limits specified in
exceptions or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated
like applications for initial exceptions under subsection B 2 of this chapter.
   6.   Exceptions lasting for a duration of less than forty-eight hours may be
granted by the chief of police or his designated noise control officer.
Exceptions lasting for a duration of more than forty-eight hours or dealing
with zoning conflicts or machine generated noise may be granted by the
community development department director or his designated noise control
officer.
   B.   Exceptions for Time to Comply. Within ninety days following the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the owner of any
commercial or industrial source of sound may apply to the noise control office
(r) for an exception in time to comply with the provisions of this chapter. The
noise control office(r) shall have the authority, consistent with this section,
to grant an exception (not to exceed one hundred eight days from the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter). The same procedures and
considerations by the noise control office(r) as followed under this section
shall likewise apply.
   C.   Appeals. Appeals of an adverse decision under this section of the
police department's noise control office(r) shall be made to the police
commander, then to the police chief, and then the city council. Review of the
appeals of an adverse decision under this section of the building official
shall be made to the community development director. Determinations of the
community development director may be appealed to the city building appeals
board. (Ord. 92-23 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.24.110 Enforcement.
   A.   Prima Facie Violation. Any noise exceeding the noise level limits for a
designated noise zone as provided in Table 1 of Section
9.24.060 and Table 1 of Section
9.24.070 or the prohibited actions as provided in Section
9.24.050 shall be deemed to be prima facie evidence of a violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Violations--Infractions. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an infraction. Each hour such violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such.
   C.   Abatement Orders.
   1.   In lieu of issuing a notice of violation as provided for in subsection
B of this section, the noise control office(r) or police department responsible
for enforcement of any provision of this chapter may issue an order requiring
abatement of a sound source alleged to be in violation, within a reasonable
time period and according to guidelines which the noise control office(r) may
prescribe.
   2.   No complaint or further action shall be taken in the event that the
cause of the violation has been removed, the condition abated or fully
corrected within the time period specified in the written notice. (Ord. 92-23 §
1 (part), 1992)
Chapter 9.26 MILITARY EQUIPMENT POLICY
9.26.010 Purpose.
   To adopt by ordinance a Military Equipment Policy for the Pismo Beach Police
Department, in accordance with the provisions of Assembly Bill 481 (Chiu,
2021), codified at California Government Code Section 7070 et seq.
(Ord. O-2022-003 § 2 (part), 2022)
9.26.020 Findings and determinations.
   In accordance with Government Code Section 7071, the city council determines
as follows:
   A.   The military equipment identified in the Pismo Beach Military Equipment
Use Policy is necessary, because there are no reasonable alternatives that can
achieve the same objectives of officer and civilian safety.
   B.   The proposed military equipment use policy will safeguard the public's
welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties.
   C.   The military equipment identified in the Pismo Beach Military Equipment
Use Policy is identified as currently owned as of the date of the ordinance
adding this chapter, and is reasonably cost effective compared to available
alternatives that can achieve the same objective of officer and civilian
safety.
   D.   The city did not previously have a prior military equipment use policy,
but as to any prior uses that do not comply with the Military Equipment Use
Policy, corrective action has been taken to remedy nonconforming uses and
ensure future compliance.
   E.   The city council, therefore, hereby enacts this ordinance in order to
adopt the Pismo Beach Military Equipment Use Policy as the city's Military
Equipment Use Policy, and to approve the continuing use of the military
equipment identified therein.
(Ord. O-2022-003 § 2 (part), 2022)
9.26.030 Approval of Military Equipment Policy.
   A.   Pismo Beach Police Department Policy No. 707, "Military Equipment," is
hereby approved and incorporated by reference into this code as though fully
set forth herein, and the continuing use of the military equipment identified
therein is approved.
   B.   This approval, along with the findings and determinations set forth in
Section
9.26.020, shall be deemed to apply to any modifications to the Military
Equipment Policy presented in a report to the city council and approved at a
duly-noticed meeting conducted in accordance with applicable open meeting laws,
which report shall be presented no less often than annually.
(Ord. O-2022-003 § 2 (part), 2022)
Chapter 9.28 SECOND POLICE RESPONSE TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS
9.28.010 Purpose.
   The city council finds and determines that parties, gatherings or events on
private property can constitute a threat to the peace, health, safety or
general welfare of the public. Officers have been required to make many return
calls to parties, gatherings or events in order to disperse uncooperative and
unruly participants. Such return calls drain the manpower and resources of the
police department and can leave other areas of the city without minimal levels
of police protection so as to create a significant hazard to the safety of
citizens and police officers. (Ord. 92-13 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.28.020 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   A.   "Party" means a party, gathering, event or other assembly of persons
for a social occasion or activity.
   B.   "Person responsible for the party" means any of the following:
   1.   The person or persons who own the property where the party takes place;
   2.   The person or persons in charge of the premises where the party takes
place;
   3.   The person or persons authorizing the use of the premises for the
party;
   4.   The person or persons who organized the party.
   Each of the above shall be jointly and severally liable for the police
services fee except where the person responsible for the event is a minor, in
which case the parents or guardians of that minor shall be jointly and
severally liable for the police services fee.
   C.   "Police services fee" means all costs of personnel and equipment for
the amount of time actually spent in responding to or in remaining at a party
including, but not limited to, the salaries of the police personnel, the actual
cost of any medical treatment to injured officers, the cost of repairing any
damaged police or city equipment or property, administrative processing fees,
costs associated with recovering the police services fee, costs incurred by a
collection agency, and the overhead and administrative costs related to all of
the foregoing.
   D.   "Second police response" means any police response to the location of a
party, made within twelve hours after the distribution of a written warning to
the person(s) responsible for the party, gathering or event notifying the
person(s) that the party, gathering or event is in violation of the law. (Ord.
92-13 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.28.030 Police response at parties, gatherings or events requiring more than
one response.
   A.   A police services fee may be imposed when:
   1.   A police officer at the scene of a party has given written notice to
the person responsible for the party that it violates the law; and
   2.   A subsequent police response to the party is required to control the
threat to public peace, health, safety and welfare and to disperse the event.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to the authority of the
police to regulate parties and shall supplement, and not supplant, the exercise
of any other available law including, but not limited to, arrest or citation
pursuant to the California Penal Code or any other applicable law, code or
ordinance. (Ord. 92-13 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.28.040 Police services fee.
   A.   The person responsible for the party for which a subsequent police
response is dispatched shall be liable for a police services fee to defray the
reasonable costs of providing the subsequent police response.
   B.   The amount of such shall be a debt to the city of the person(s)
responsible for the event receiving the police services and, if minors, their
parents or guardians. Any person owing money shall be liable in an action
brought by the city in its own name to recover such amount, including
reasonable attorney's fees. (Ord. 92-13 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.28.050 Billing.
   A.   The chief of police or his designate shall thereafter cause appropriate
billings to be made.
   B.   After an attempt to collect the debt by the city to no avail, the debt
may be turned over to a collection agency. collection fees charged by the
collection agency will be added to the debt. (Ord. 92-13 § 1 (part), 1992)
9.28.060 Appeal.
   A.   Any person receiving a bill for police services provided pursuant to
this chapter, may, within fifteen days after the bill was sent, file a written
request with the police department appealing the police services imposed. Any
appeal regarding the billing shall be heard by a commanding officer of the
police department as designated by the chief of police.
   B.   After a request for appeal is filed, the city shall withhold collection
of the bill until conclusion of the appeal.
   C.   If, after a hearing before a commanding officer, the appeal is denied
in part or in full, all amounts due to the city shall be paid within thirty
days. (Ord. 92-13 § 1 (part), 1992)
Chapter 9.32 PRESENCE OF MINORS PROHIBITED
9.32.010 Prohibited where.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen years to remain
or loiter about without any apparent reason or business, in or on the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, public buildings, places of amusement
or entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised places between the hours
of eleven p.m., official city time, and six a.m., official city time, of the
following day; provided, however, the provisions of this section shall not
apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or where the minor
is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the
minor, or when the minor is returning directly home from a meeting,
entertainment, recreational activity, or dance. (Ord. 92-27 § 1 (part), 1993)
9.32.020 Proof of custody.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the burden of proof shall be upon the
adult person accompanying the minor to establish the fact of the care and
custody of the minor. The mere fact that the minor is accompanied by an adult
person shall not give rise to a presumption that such adult person did in fact
have the care and custody of such minor. The burden of proof shall be met by
proof of the fact that such adult person is a person who has received the
express permission of the parent or guardian to accompany such minor or by
proof that such adult person has been entrusted with the legal custody of such
minor. (Ord. 92-27 § 1 (part), 1993)
Chapter 9.36 GRAFFITI ABATEMENT
9.36.010 Purpose and intent.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a program to prevent and control
the further spread of graffiti within the city, to establish a process for the
removal of graffiti from real and personal property, and to assess and recover
costs related to such removal. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.020 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the following words and phrases are defined as follows:
   A.   "Graffiti" includes any unauthorized inscription, writing, lettering,
word, figure, marking, drawing or design that is marked, written, etched,
scratched, drawn, or painted or otherwise placed on any part of a building,
structure, facility or surface, regardless of the nature of the material of
that part.
   B.   "Unauthorized" means either without the prior consent of the property
owner or in violation of any law or regulation.
   C.   "Graffiti abatement costs and expenses" means and includes, but are not
limited to, the following costs and expenses incurred by the city:
   1.   The costs and expenses of having graffiti removed from defaced
property;
   2.   The costs and expenses of having defaced property repaired or replaced
when the city determines that the removal of the graffiti would not be cost
effective;
   3.   The costs of administering and monitoring the participation of a
defendant and his/her parents or guardians in a graffiti abatement program;
   4.   The related administrative, overhead, and incidental costs incurred in
performing or causing the performance of the enforcement, abatement or
collection procedures described in this chapter; and
   5.   Related court costs and attorneys' fees in accordance with Government
Code Section 38773.5.
   6.   Rewards issued pursuant to Section
9.36.170.
   "Graffiti eradication costs and expenses" include but are not limited to the
following costs and expenses incurred by the city:
   1.   All costs enumerated above in the definition of "graffiti abatement
costs and expenses"; and
   2.   The law enforcement costs and expenses incurred in identifying and
apprehending a responsible party.
   D.   "Graffiti implements" include, but are not limited to, the following
items possessed with the intent to deface any property:
   1.   "Aerosol paint container" means any aerosol container, regardless of
the materials from which it is made, which is adapted or made for the purpose
of spraying paint or other substance capable of defacing property. "Aerosol
paint container" does not include a container of less than six ounces capacity
provided to a minor for the minor's use or possession under the supervision of
the minor's parent, guardian, instructor or employer.
   2.   "Felt tip marker" means any broad tip marker pen with a tip exceeding
one-eighth of one inch in width, or any similar implement containing an ink
that is not water soluble.
   3.   "Paint stick or graffiti stick" means any device containing a solid
form of paint, chalk, wax, epoxy, or other similar substance capable of being
applied to a surface by pressure, and upon application, leaving a mark at least
one-sixteenth of one inch in width, which cannot be removed with water after it
dries.
   E.   "Graffiti implements" do not include the above items if they are
furnished for use in school-related activities that are part of an approved
instructional program, when such items are used under controlled and supervised
situations within the classroom or on the site of a supervised project.
   F.   "Police Chief" means the Chief of Police of the City of Pismo Beach or
his/her designee.
   G.   "Real or personal property" includes, but is not limited to: buildings
or other structures, such as walls; fences; signs; retaining walls; driveways;
walkways; sidewalks; curbs; street lampposts; hydrants; trees; electric, light,
power, telephone or telegraph poles; drinking fountains; display stands;
utility boxes; and garbage receptacles.
   H.   "A person in control of real property" means:
   1.   A renter or lessee of real property where a term of the rental
agreement or lease provides that the renter or lessee is responsible for the
upkeep and maintenance of the real property including painting of the property.
   2.   A manager who is designated by the person in control of the real
property.
   3.   An owner of the real property.
   I.   "Responsible party" means:
   1.   Any person, including a minor, who has been determined to have placed
graffiti on real or personal property of another person.
   2.   A minor who has: confessed to, admitted to, or pled guilty or no
contest to, a violation of Penal Code Section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or
640.7; or who has been convicted by final judgment of a violation of Penal Code
Section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7; or who has been declared a ward of
the juvenile court pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code Section 602 by
reason of the commission of an act prohibited by Penal Code Section 594, 594.3,
640.5, 640.6, or 640.7.
   3.   The parents or guardians having custody and control of a minor who is a
responsible party also are responsible parties for the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.030 Nuisance declared.
   The City Council declares that graffiti is a public and private nuisance,
and may be abated pursuant to this chapter, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.040 Graffiti prohibited.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to place graffiti as
defined in Section
9.36.020 upon any real or personal property when the graffiti is visible from
any public right-of-way or from any other public or private property.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person who is in control of any real or personal
property within the city to knowingly allow graffiti, which is visible from any
public right-of-way or from any other public or private property, to remain
upon real or personal property for a period of time longer than seventy-two
hours after having been given notice as provided for in Section
9.36.120.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to aid, abet or
encourage another to paint, etch or in any other manner apply graffiti upon
public or private real or personal property of any kind within the city. (Ord.
O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.050 Graffiti eradication program.
   The Police Chief is authorized to establish a comprehensive Graffiti
Eradication Program within the city that may, but is not required to, include
the following: pro-active enforcement to identify, apprehend and prosecute
persons who have placed graffiti on the real or personal property of another;
establishment of procedures to pursue restitution of graffiti eradication costs
from responsible parties; establishment of a preventive education program
within local schools to prevent graffiti; establishment of an offender
education program with the intent of diverting those apprehended for graffiti
related offenses; establishment of a "graffiti hotline" to be used by the
community to report real or personal property which has been defaced with
graffiti; coordination of an "adopt an area or neighborhood" for reporting and
clean up of graffiti; and the coordination and maintenance of a graffiti wipe-
out program that utilizes available resources and enlists citizen volunteers
and those who are responsible for community service as an imposition of
sentence or condition of probation with the goal of cleaning graffiti from real
or personal property within the city within seventy-two hours of its
appearance. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.060 Identification of party responsible for graffiti.
   To assist the Police Chief in identifying the responsible party in incidents
of graffiti, the Police Chief is authorized to request and receive any report
or materials containing the names and addresses of responsible parties to the
fullest extent allowed by law.
   A.   This authority includes, without limitation, the authority to receive a
report from the county probation officer containing the names and addresses of
parent or guardians having custody and control of minors who are responsible
parties pursuant to California Government Code Section 38772(c).
   B.   The Police Chief may apply to the juvenile court for the release of the
names and addresses of responsible parties who are minors. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1
(part), 2011)
9.36.070 Recovery of graffiti eradication costs and expenses.
   A.   Any responsible party as defined in this chapter shall be liable to the
city for all graffiti eradication costs and expenses.
   B.   All responsible parties shall be jointly and severally liable for the
graffiti eradication costs and expenses on a particular property. (Ord. O-2011-
001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.080 Invoice for graffiti eradication costs and expenses.
   The Police Chief, or his/her designee, shall cause to be sent an invoice for
graffiti eradication costs and expenses to a responsible party. In addition to
information on the standard invoice for city service fees, the invoice for
graffiti eradication costs and expenses shall contain:
   A.   The address or location of the defaced real or personal property and
the location and a description of the defaced personal property, sufficient to
identify the defaced property;
   B.   A summary of the graffiti eradication actions performed;
   C.   A listing of the graffiti eradication costs and expenses incurred;
   D.   The identity of the responsible party and the basis of that
determination;
   E.   A description of the payment process, including the time within which
and the place to which the graffiti eradication costs and expenses shall be
paid;
   F.   A statement advising that the graffiti eradication costs and expenses
shall be a personal obligation of the party;
   G.   A statement advising that the city may pursue a special collection
process for the graffiti eradication costs and expenses against real property
owned by the responsible party; and
   H.   A description of the process by which a responsible party may protest
the determination that he or she is a responsible party or the amount of the
graffiti eradication costs and expenses. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.090 Graffiti removal.
   Graffiti that is visible from any public right-of-way or public or private
property shall be removed in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Removal by property owner. The property owner or other person in
control of real property shall be encouraged to perform the removal with his/
her own resources;
   B.   Removal by the city with consent of property owner. The city or its
agents may remove graffiti upon satisfaction of the following conditions:
   1.   The consent of the owner of the property is obtained;
   2.   The property owner has requested the city to remove the graffiti and
has shown that he/she is unable to remove the graffiti due to financial or
physical reasons;
   3.   The property owner executes a release and right of entry form
permitting such graffiti removal;
   4.   The city shall not paint or repair a more extensive area than is
necessary to remove the graffiti, unless the Police Chief determines that a
more extensive area needs repainting or repairing in order to avoid an
aesthetic disfigurement to the neighborhood or community, or unless the
property owner agrees to pay for the cost of repainting or repairing the more
extensive areas; and
   5.   The owner provides paint of a specific color or match if they so desire
or are able to.
   C.   Removal by city without consent of property owner. If the above
solution fails to result in the successful removal of graffiti, the Police
Chief may order abatement of graffiti from real or personal property when the
owner does not remove the graffiti with his or her own resources, or satisfy
the conditions of subsection B of this Section. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part),
2011)
9.36.100 Property owner's obligation to remove.
   All persons who own real or personal property upon which graffiti has been
placed shall cause the removal of such graffiti, in the manner set forth in
Section 9.36.110, within seventy-two hours after it is placed on the property.
If the owner fails to do so, the Police Chief may abate and remove graffiti on
public or private property in accordance with the procedure set forth in
Section
9.36.090 and Section
9.36.110. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.110 Standards for graffiti removal.
   Graffiti shall be removed or completely covered in a manner that renders it
inconspicuous. When graffiti is painted out, the color used to paint it out
shall match the original color of the surface, or the surface shall be
completely repainted with a new color that is aesthetically compatible with
existing colors and architecture. The removal shall not leave shadows and shall
not follow the pattern of the graffiti such that the letters or similar shapes
remain apparent on the surface after graffiti markings have been removed. If
the area is heavily covered with graffiti, the entire surface shall be
repainted. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.120 Graffiti abatement and cost recovery proceedings.
   Abatement of graffiti and assessment of graffiti abatement and/or
eradication costs shall be in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   Following a report of graffiti from any source, the Police Chief shall
issue a notice of intent to abate the graffiti as a public nuisance, and shall
serve such notice by any of the following methods:
   1.   By personal service on the owner, occupant or person in charge or
control of the property;
   2.   By posting at a conspicuous place on the property or abutting public
right-of-way; or
   3.   By sending a copy of such notice by registered or certified mail
addressed to the owner at the address shown on the last available assessment
roll, or as otherwise known.
   B.   The notice of intent shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF INTENT TO
   ABATE NUISANCE-GRAFFITI
                                                          
                                                          
(Name and address of person notified)
                                                          
(Date)
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that you are required by Pismo Beach Municipal Code
Chapter 9.36 to, at your sole expense, remove or paint over the graffiti in
existence on the property located at (address), which is visible to public
view, by (date). If you fail to do so, the City or its agents will enter your
property and remove or paint over the graffiti. The cost of such removal and/or
painting will be assessed against you and your property, and such costs will
constitute a lien upon such property until paid.
You may request a hearing to contest this notice. To request a hearing, you
must submit a written request to the Police Chief by (date). If a request is
not received by this date by the Police Chief, the Police Chief shall have the
authority to proceed with the abatement of the graffiti inscribed on your
property without further notice or hearing, and at your expense.
Your presence is not required at the hearing. In lieu of attendance, you may
submit a sworn written statement executed under penalty of perjury, as to why
you are not responsible for the removal of the graffiti, and/or assessment of
costs of removal and/or painting. If you do not appear in person at the
hearing, your sworn written statement as described will be considered as your
sole testimony.
   C.   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the Police Chief shall set a
date and time for the hearing and notify the person requesting the hearing of
the date, time, and location of the hearing. All hearings under this chapter
shall be held before the Police Chief who shall hear all facts and testimony
he/she deems pertinent. Said facts and testimony may include testimony on the
location of the graffiti and the circumstances concerning its placement on the
real or personal property. The Police Chief shall not be limited by the
technical rules of evidence. After the hearing, the Police Chief shall serve
notice of his/her written decision to the person requesting the hearing, or
other affected parties, within ten working days.
   D.   Any owner of the real or personal property on which graffiti is to be
abated who is not satisfied with the decision of the Police Chief to abate said
graffiti may appeal to the City Manager or his/her designee. The written appeal
must be filed with the City Manager within ten working days of service of the
Police Chiefs decision. The City Manager shall review the decision of the
Police Chief and any facts and testimony presented before the Police Chief. The
City Manager may, but is not required, to conduct a hearing to supplement the
facts and testimony presented to the Police Chief. The City Manager may render
his decision based solely on the facts and testimony presented to the Police
Chief without hearing. The City Manager, or his/her designee, may uphold the
order of the Police Chief to abate the graffiti granted under this chapter if
the City Manager, or his/her designee, determines that the graffiti is
detrimental to the public safety or welfare. The City Manager's decision shall
be the city's final administrative determination. An aggrieved party may seek
judicial review of the decision pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
Sections 1094.5 and 1094.6. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.130 Assessment and payment of costs.
   A.   Following abatement, the Police Chief shall send an invoice to the
owner of the real or personal property upon which graffiti has been abated. The
notice shall specify all graffiti abatement and eradication costs. The notice
shall be given at the time of imposing the assessment and shall specify that
the property may be sold after three years by the tax collector for unpaid
delinquent assessments. The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the
property owner, if the property owner's identity can be determined from the
county assessor's or county recorder's records. If owner of the property, after
diligent search, cannot be found, the notice may be served by posting a copy of
the notice upon the property in a conspicuous place, for a period of ten days.
The notice shall also be published pursuant to Government Code Section 6062 in
a newspaper of general circulation that is published in the county in which the
property is located.
   B.   The total cost of graffiti abatement and eradication, including all
administrative costs, shall be paid by the owner or other person in control of
the real property or the owner of personal property upon which graffiti has
been abated, within thirty calendar days after service of the invoice.
   C.   Pursuant to Government Code Section 38773.5, the total cost of
abatement and eradication, including all administrative costs, shall constitute
a special assessment against the property subject to the graffiti abatement, if
not paid in full within thirty days after service of the invoice. After the
assessment is made, it shall constitute a lien on the property subject to the
graffiti abatement. Such special assessment shall be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes are collected and shall be
subject to the same penalties and the same procedures and sale in case of
delinquency as provided for ordinary municipal taxes. However, if any real
property to which a special assessment relates has been transferred or conveyed
to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide encumbrancer
for value has been created and attaches thereon, prior to the date on which the
first installment of taxes would become delinquent, then the special assessment
shall not result in a lien against the real property but instead shall be
transferred to the unsecured roll for collection. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part),
2011)
9.36.140 Cost of abatement a personal obligation.
   Instead of making the cost of abating a nuisance a special assessment
against the property subject to the graffiti abatement, the city may make the
cost the personal obligation of the property owner or other person creating,
causing, committing or maintaining the nuisance. In such a case, all of the
procedures of this chapter apply except those specially related to assessment
of the property. The property owner or person in control will remain
responsible for all abatement and eradication costs until reimbursement is
collected by the city from the person creating, causing, or committing the
nuisance. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.150 Alternative means of enforcement.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the City Council from
authorizing the City Attorney to commence any other available civil or criminal
proceedings to abate a public nuisance in addition to or alternative to
proceedings set forth in this chapter. At the time the abatement action is
filed, the City Attorney may elect to seek recovery of attorneys' fees incurred
in a graffiti abatement action under this chapter. In a case where the City
Attorney makes this election, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover
attorneys' fees. In no event shall the award of attorneys' fees to a prevailing
party exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the city in
the action. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.160 Possession of graffiti implements.
   A.   By minors at or near school facilities. It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of eighteen years to possess any graffiti implement as
defined in Section
9.36.020, while on any school property, grounds, facilities, buildings,
structures, upon public property, or upon private property without the prior
written consent of the owner or occupant of such private property. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the possession of graffiti
implements by a minor attending or traveling to or from a school at which the
minor is enrolled if the minor is participating in a class at the school that
formally requires the possession of graffiti implements. The burden of proof in
any prosecution for violation of this section shall be upon the minor student
to establish the need to possess a graffiti implement.
   B.   In designated public places. It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess any graffiti implement while in or upon any public facility, park,
playground, recreational facility, or other public building or structure owned
or operated by the city or while in or within fifty feet of an underpass,
bridge abutment, storm drain, or similar types of infrastructure unless
otherwise authorized by the city. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.170 Reward for information.
   A.   Pursuant to Section 53069.5 of the Government Code, the city may offer
a reward of up to five hundred dollars for any person or persons who furnish
information to the city's Police Department leading to the arrest and
conviction, adjudication as a juvenile offender, or confession of any person
for violation of Section
9.36.040 or California Penal Code Section 594. Such information may be
furnished in whatever method that provides for adequate identification of the
violator(s) which may include photo or video evidence. In the event of multiple
contributors of information, the reward amount shall be divided by the city in
the manner it shall deem appropriate. For the purposes of this section,
diversion of the offending violator to a community service program, or a plea
bargain to a lesser offense, may constitute a conviction.
   B.   Moneys collected from penalties shall be deposited into the city's
general fund, and those moneys may be utilized to pay for the monetary reward
and graffiti control program.
   C.   Claims for rewards under this section shall be filed with the City
Clerk as are other claims against the city. Each claim shall:
   1.   Specifically identify the date, location and kind of property damaged
or destroyed;
   2.   Identify the person who was convicted of or who confessed to violating
Section
9.36.040 or California Penal Code Section 594;
   3.   Identify the court and the date upon which the conviction occurred or
the place and the date of the confession;
   4.   No claim for a reward shall be allowed unless an authorized
representative of the city investigates and verifies the accuracy of the claim
and recommends that it be allowed. The investigation must determine that the
claimant's information was relevant and directly responsible for the arrest and
conviction of the suspect. (Ord. O-2011-001 § 1 (part), 2011)
9.36.180 Savings clause.
   This chapter is not intended to conflict with California law, and shall be
construed so as to avoid conflict with or preemption by California law. If any
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter are severable. The City Council declares that it would have adopted
each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses,
phrases or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. O-2011-001 §
1 (part), 2011)
       Title 10 VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Chapter 10.04 TRAFFIC CONTROL REGULATIONS
10.04.010 Definitions.
   Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   "Alley" means every way set apart for public travel except streets, bridle
paths and foot paths.
   "Crosswalk" means that portion of the roadway included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at street intersections and indicated
for pedestrian crossings by lines or other markings on the surface.
   "Intersection" means the area embraced within the prolongation of the
property lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not one
such street crosses the other.
   "Reserved space" means that portion of the roadway, adjacent to the curb,
not over twenty feet in length which is reserved for some specific purpose as
provided in this chapter.
   "Roadway" means that portion of a street or highway between the regularly
established curb lines.
   "Sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curb lines and the
adjacent property lines set aside for pedestrian travel.
   "Street or highway" is a way or place, of whatever nature, publicly
maintained and open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   "Vehicle" means every device or animal by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street, excepting devices moved by human
power. For the purpose of this chapter, a bicycle shall be deemed a vehicle.
(Prior code § 10.04.010)
10.04.020 No-parking zones—Establishment authority.
   A.   In the exercise of the power to regulate and control traffic upon and
the movement and standing of vehicles, bicycles, scooters, and any other device
propelled by human power and/or mechanical power upon the streets of the city,
the chief of police or designee is authorized to establish zones or spaces in
which any of the above-listed devices will not be permitted to stand or park
and also zones or places in which any of the above-listed devices will not be
permitted to stand or park for specific periods of time. All such zones or
places shall be plainly marked by paint and/or posted by signs establishing
such prohibition.
   B.   In the exercise of the power to regulate and control traffic upon and
the movement and standing of vehicles, bicycles, scooters, and any other device
propelled by human power and/or mechanical power upon the streets of the city,
the director of public works or designee is authorized to establish temporary
no-parking zones for public and private construction projects, and close
parking areas for construction purposes, and issue permits to do the same,
whereby any of the above-listed devices will not be permitted to stand or park
in such zones or places for specific periods of time. All such zones or places
shall be plainly marked by paint and/or posted by signs establishing such
prohibition.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 25, 2025; Ord. O-2021-003, § 15, 2021: Ord. 95-11 § 1, 1995:
Ord. 92-21 § 1, 1992: prior code § 10.04.020)
10.04.030 Arterials—Designation authority.
   The chief of police is authorized and directed to designate streets in the
city as arterial highways or boulevards whenever the public safety may require.
The intersection of every
arterial highway or boulevard, established pursuant to this chapter, with every
other street, shall be plainly marked with a sign visible to persons traveling
along such intersecting streets upon which sign there shall be printed in
legible characters the word "Stop." (Prior code § 10.04.030)
10.04.040 Parallel parking—Designation authority.
   The chief of police is authorized and directed to designate streets in the
city upon which cars shall be parked parallel with the curb and also streets
upon which cars shall be parked at an angle to the curb. (Prior code §
10.04.040)
10.04.050 Compliance with Sections
10.04.020 through
10.04.040 required.
   It is unlawful for any person to park or permit to stand any vehicle within
any zone established or marked pursuant to Section
10.04.020, and it is unlawful for any person to drive or permit to be moved or
driven any vehicle across any such boulevard or arterial highway or before
turning into the line of traffic proceeding in either direction on any such
boulevard or arterial highway without first stopping the same; and it is
unlawful for any person to park any car contrary to the provisions of Section
10.04.040. (Prior code § 10.04.050)
10.04.060 One-way streets to be designated by resolution.
   At the discretion of the council, one-way streets in the city may be
designated by resolution from time to time after a public hearing by the city
council. (Ord. 90-19 § 2(N), 1990: prior code § 10.04.060)
10.04.070 Traffic control authority.
   Officers of the police department, officials of the public works department,
and their duly authorized contractors are authorized to direct all traffic by
means of visible or audible signals, and it is unlawful for any person to
refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a
traffic or police officer, public works official, or duly authorized contractor
thereof. It is unlawful for any person other than a police or traffic officer,
public works official, or duly authorized contractor thereof to direct or
attempt to direct traffic except under the supervision of the police department
or public works department. (Ord. O-2021-003, § 15, 2021: prior code §
10.04.070)
10.04.080 Signs and signals—Determination and placement.
   The council shall determine and designate the character of all official
warning and directional signals and signs. Subject to such determination, it
shall be the duty of the person so authorized to do so, to place and maintain
all official warning and direction signs and signals. All signs authorized
under this section for a particular purpose shall be uniform. (Prior code §
10.04.080)
10.04.090 Signs and signals—Compliance required.
   It is unlawful for any operator of a vehicle or a pedestrian to disobey the
instructions of any mechanical or electrical traffic signal or any traffic sign
or marks placed on the street in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Prior code § 10.04.090)
10.04.100 Signs and signals placed by public utilities.
   No public utility or department in this city shall erect or place any
barrier or sign unless of a type first approved by the city engineer. It is
unlawful for any operator of a vehicle or a pedestrian to disobey the
instructions of any barrier or sign approved, as provided in this section,
erected or placed by a public utility or by any department of this city. (Prior
code § 10.04.100)
10.04.110 Lane markings—Crossing.
   The council may from time to time determine by resolution those streets
which shall be marked as provided in the California State Vehicle Code to which
reference is made in this section so as to indicate that driving over, or to
the left of such marking shall be prohibited, and when any street in the city
is so marked, driving over, or to the left of such marking shall be prohibited
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. The distinctive roadway marking
shall consist of two solid white stripes or of one solid white and one broken
stripe, painted on the roadway, each stripe three inches wide, and the two
stripes separated by a three-inch black stripe; provided, however, that where
one broken white stripe is used, driving over the double line by traffic
proceeding on the same side of the street as said broken white stripe shall not
be prohibited. (Prior code § 10.04.110)
10.04.120 Crosswalks—Establishment and designation.
   The council may from time to time determine by resolution the intersections
at which, in its opinion there is a particular hazard to pedestrians crossing
the roadway and shall thereupon authorize the establishment and maintenance of
crosswalks approximately equal in width to the adjacent sidewalk at such
intersections. The crosswalks shall be designated at such intersections by
appropriate devices, marks or white lines painted on the roadway. (Prior code §
10.04.120)
10.04.130 Unauthorized signs or signals prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or maintain any device other than an
official warning or directional sign or signal erected under competent
authority, on or in view of the street, which purports to be, or is an
imitation of, or resembles an official warning or direction sign or signal, or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or the actions of operators of
vehicles; and any such prohibited device shall be a public nuisance and the
police department may remove it, or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior code § 10.04.130)
10.04.140 Signs and signals—Tampering with.
   It is unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere with any
official warning or directional signal or sign. (Prior code § 10.04.140)
10.04.150 Emergency vehicles—Regulation exemptions.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles. (Prior code §
10.04.150)
10.04.160 Entering occupied crosswalk unlawful.
   It is unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to drive into any crosswalk
which is marked as provided in Section
10.04.120 while there is in such crosswalk on the half of the roadway or street
on which such vehicle is traveling any pedestrian engaged in crossing the
street or roadway, until such pedestrian shall have passed beyond the path of
said vehicle. (Prior code § 10.04.160)
10.04.170 Turning movements—Restrictions.
   A.   No vehicle in a business district shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction except at an intersection.
   B.   No vehicle in a residential district shall be turned so as to proceed
in the opposite direction when any other vehicle is approaching from either
direction within two hundred feet except at an intersection. (Prior code §
10.04.170)
10.04.180 Crossing intersecting streets or boulevards.
   A.   All of the streets and highways in the city now existing or hereafter
created or dedicated are declared to be boulevards for the purposes of this
section.
   B.   Every operator of a vehicle traversing any street intersecting any
boulevard shall stop such vehicle at the place where such street meets the
nearest property line of the boulevard before entering such boulevard, provided
the said property line is clearly signposted or marked as required by this
section.
   C.   The council shall by resolution from time to time designate the places
where vehicles shall stop before crossing the intersecting streets or
boulevards. (Prior code § 10.04.230)
10.04.190 Intersecting streets or boulevards—Sign placement.
   The council shall require some employee or official of the city to place and
maintain or cause to be placed and maintained in the street at such places as
may by resolution from time to time be designated, appropriate signs or devices
or marks to bear the words "SLOW" or "STOP" or the words "BOULEVARD STOP" in
such places and with letters thereon of a size legible from a distance of fifty
feet along the streets intersecting the boulevard. (Prior code § 10.04.240)
10.04.200 Driving over fire hose prohibited.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the fire department
when laid on any street or private driveway without the consent of the fire
chief or assistant in command. (Prior code § 10.04.250)
10.04.210 Driving or riding on sidewalk prohibited.
   It is unlawful to drive or ride a vehicle or bicycle on any sidewalk. (Prior
code § 10.04.260)
10.04.220 Driving through funeral procession unlawful.
   It is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive between the vehicles
comprising a funeral procession. (Prior code § 10.04.290)
10.04.230 Temporary signposting.
   Whenever the chief of police shall determine that an emergency traffic
congestion is likely to result from holding a public or private assemblage,
gathering or function, or for other reasons, he may cause temporary signs to be
erected or posted indicating that the operation, parking or standing of
vehicles as the case may be is prohibited on said streets during the time that
such temporary signs are in place. Such signs shall be erected or posted for a
period of not longer than forty-eight hours. (Prior code § 10.04.310)
10.04.240 Real property—Subject to state code provisions.
   All real property belonging to, owned by or under the dominion and control
of the city, located within the corporate limits of the city, is made subject
to certain provisions of the California Vehicle Code set forth in Section
10.04.250; and the operation of any motor vehicle thereon shall be and the same
is made subject to the provisions of the Vehicle Code of the state, as
specified in Section
10.04.250. (Prior code § 10.04.320)
10.04.250 Real property—State code sections adopted.
   All provisions of Sections 2800.1, 21050, 21052, 21053, 21054, 21055, 21056,
21058, 21462, 21464(a), 21465, 21466, 21466.5, 21467, 21750, 21753, 21954(a)
and (b), 22106, 22107, 22108, 22109, 22110, 22111, 22515, 23103, 23104, 23109
(a), (b), (c) and (d), 23110(a) and (b), 23111, 23112(a) and (b), 23113(a) and
(b), 40000.1, 42002 and 42005 of the California Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference as though set out in this section in full and are made applicable to
any and all property described in Section
10.04.240, and where in any of said sections of the California Vehicle Code the
words "highway" or words of similar import and intent are used, such words
shall be construed as applying to and covering the operation of the California
Vehicle Code in, on or about any of the premises described in Section
10.04.240. (Ord. 90-19 § 2(K), 1990; prior code § 10.04.330)
10.04.260 Real property—Speed limit designated.
   No person shall drive a vehicle upon any of the property described in
Section
10.04.240 at a speed in excess of fifteen miles per hour. (Prior code §
10.04.350)
10.04.270 Real property—Penalty for violations.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of Sections
10.04.240 through
10.04.260 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars or imprisonment not exceeding six months or by
both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 90-19 § 2(L), 1990: prior code §
10.04.360)
10.04.280 Speed zone survey adopted.
   A.   It is declared that the prima facie speed limit shall be as set forth
in the attached speed zone survey, incorporated in the ordinance codified in
this section as Exhibit A, on file in the office of the city clerk, when signs
are erected giving notice thereof.
   B.   Appropriate signage indicating traffic speeds is hereby directed to be
installed.
   C.   The city police department is authorized to enforce said speed zones by
use of radar detection. (Prior code § 10.04.370)
Chapter 10.08 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
10.08.010 Resolutions for parking, standing or stopping.
   The city council may by resolution prohibit or restrict the stopping,
standing or parking on streets, highways, city parking lots or public areas
(whether improved or unimproved) within the city, or any portion thereof,
during all or certain hours of the day. No such resolution shall apply until
signs or markings giving adequate notice thereof have been placed by the public
services department. (Ord. 94-05 § 1, 1994: Ord. 92-07 § 1, 1992: Ord. 89-14 §
1, 1987: prior code § 10.08.005)
10.08.020 Stopping or standing prohibited where.
   No operator of any vehicle shall stop, leave standing, permit to be stopped
or permit to be left standing, such vehicle:
   A.   Within ten feet of any intersection;
   B.   Within ten feet of any fire hydrant;
   C.   Directly in front of any building in which is housed fire fighting
apparatus belonging to the city;
   D.   In any reserved space, except to take on or let off passengers or
merchandise, unless otherwise provided in this chapter;
   E.   In an intersection;
   F.   In a crosswalk. (Prior code § 10.04.180)
10.08.030 Parking along streets.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not stand or park such vehicle in a roadway
other than parallel with the curb and with the two right-hand wheels of the
vehicle within one foot of the regularly established curb line, except that
upon those streets which have been marked for angle parking as provided in this
chapter vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such
marks; and provided, however, that the operator of a vehicle may stop and stand
such vehicle as close to the curb line as possible for such period of time only
not to exceed fifteen minutes, as may be necessary to receive or discharge
passengers, or to load or unload merchandise or materials. The council is
authorized to determine by resolution upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and to indicate such places by painting lines upon the surface of the
roadway to indicate the proper angle for parking. (Prior code § 10.04.190)
10.08.040 Stopping, standing and parking restrictions.
   A.   All of the streets and highways in the city now existing or hereafter
created or dedicated are declared streets, and all the city parking lots or
public areas (whether improved or unimproved) upon which driving, stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles shall be limited and restricted; provided, that
such street, lot or public area is properly signposted or marked so as to
designate the limitation or restriction placed herein. The council may from
time to time limit or restrict the driving, stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles upon any public street, city parking lot or public area in the city.
Such limitation or restriction shall be effectuated by resolution of the
council specifying the streets, lots and public areas and limitations or
restrictions on driving, standing, stopping or parking therein, followed by
proper signposting of the street, lot or public area.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no person shall
stop, stand, park or leave standing any vehicle in any city parking lot at any
time between the hours of 11:00 p.m. of one day and 4:00 a.m. the following day
unless otherwise authorized by permit issued by the city manager or his/her
designee, or unless authorized by written agreement with the city.
   C.   When authorized signs are in place giving notice thereof, no person
shall drive, stop, stand or park any vehicle on any street, city parking lot or
public area in the city in violation thereof. (Ord. O-2016-004 § 8, 2016: Ord.
94-05 § 2, 1994: Ord. 92-07 § 2 (part), 1992: prior code § 10.04.200)
10.08.050 Reserved parking spaces.
   The council shall determine the location of all reserved spaces. No such
reserved spaces shall be marked as such without the council passing a
resolution specifically designating the space to be reserved and the purpose of
the reservation. All reserved spaces shall be reserved for such purposes only
as are indicated under the provisions of Section 472 of the California Vehicle
Code, and the markings used to indicate such spaces shall be in accordance with
the provisions of said section of the Vehicle Code, to which reference is made
in this section. (Prior code § 10.04.210)
10.08.060 Curb markings.
   A.   Marks may be placed on the curbs to indicate the various types of local
parking regulations. These regulations shall apply to vehicles, bicycles,
scooters and any other device propelled by human power and/or mechanical power.
Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 21458(a), the following colors only
shall be used, and the colors indicate as follows:
   1.   Red indicates no stopping, standing or parking, whether the vehicle,
bicycle, scooter or any other device propelled by human power and/or mechanical
power is attended or unattended, except that a bus may stop in a red zone
marked or sign posted as a bus loading zone.
   2.   Yellow indicates stopping only for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or freight for the time as may be specified by local ordinance.
   3.   White indicates stopping for either of the following purposes:
   a.   Loading or unloading of passengers for the time as may be specified by
local ordinance;
   b.   Depositing mail in an adjacent mailbox;
   4.   Green indicates time limit parking specified by local ordinance.
   5.   Blue indicates parking limited exclusively to the vehicles of disabled
persons and disabled veterans.
   B.   Letters or official signs immediately adjacent may also be placed on
the curbs stating the nature and duration of the restrictions or regulations of
parking. No marks will be placed on curbs except by or under the direction of
an official properly authorized by the council. When any such marks are in
place, no person shall park a vehicle in violation thereof. (Ord. 95-11 § 2,
1995; Ord. 93-13 §1, 1993: prior code § 10.04.220)
10.08.070 Parking for more than seventy-two hours prohibited.
   A.   Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 22651(k), no vehicle shall
be parked or left standing upon any highway within the city for seventy-two
(72) or more consecutive hours.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, "highway" shall mean a way or place
of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel, including but not limited to a street, city
parking lot, alley or other public area, whether improved or unimproved.
   C.   A vehicle shall be considered to have been parked or left standing upon
a highway if it has not been moved at least one hundred (100) feet away, and
remains at least one hundred (100) feet away, from the position it occupied at
the beginning of the seventy-two (72) hour period, or if the odometer on said
vehicle exhibits a change less than one-tenth (1/10) of one mile. A vehicle may
be found to be in violation of this section whether occupied or not.
(Ord. O-2018-004 § 1, 2018: Ord. 94-05 § 2, 1994: Ord. 92-20 § 1, 1992: Ord.
92-07 § 3, 1992: prior code § 10.08.050)
10.08.080 Parking for the physically handicapped.
   A.   The city manager shall designate special "blue curb" parking spaces for
the purpose of providing on-street parking for exclusive use of disabled
persons.
   B.   The city manager shall designate parking stalls or spaces in publicly
owned, leased, or controlled off-street parking facilities for exclusive use by
disabled persons.
   C.   The city declares that there are privately owned and operated parking
facilities which should reserve parking spaces for exclusive use of disabled
persons.
   D.   Designation of parking spaces for disabled persons shall be made by
posting immediately adjacent to and visible from same a sign consisting of the
international symbol of access; on-street spaces shall be designated by blue
paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the
spaces:
   This facility is subject to public traffic regulations and control.
Unauthorized vehicles not displaying distinguishing license plates or placards
issued for physically handicapped persons will be issued citations and towed
away at owner's expense.
   This sign shall also display the international symbol of access, and shall
be posted at the entrance to the parking facility or immediately adjacent to
and visible from the reserved space(s).
   E.   No person shall park or stand any vehicle in a disabled persons parking
space designated as required in subsection D of this section, unless said
vehicle bears a special license or displays a special placard issued under the
provisions of Section 22511.5 of the California Vehicle Code.
   F.   Blue curb on-street parking spaces shall be operative twenty-four hours
a day, Sundays and holidays included; off-street disabled persons parking
spaces shall be operational at all times the parking facilities in which they
are located are open.
   G.   Parking zones for disabled persons are subject to any temporary parking
prohibitions established by the city, including daily prohibitions necessary
for traffic control, construction and street maintenance.
   H.   Fines for violation of this subsection shall be as set out in Vehicle
Code Section 42001(A). (Ord. 90-19 § 2(M), 1990; prior code § 10.08.055)
10.08.090 Enforcement of Section
10.08.070.
   Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 22507, the provisions of Section
10.08.070 shall not be effective until signs or markings giving adequate notice
of the parking prohibition have been placed within the city as prescribed by
law. (Prior code § 10.08.060)
10.08.100 Authority to remove vehicles from streets.
   Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 22651, any police officer of the
city police department may remove a vehicle from a street, highway, city
parking lot or public area (whether improved or unimproved):
   A.   When a vehicle is parked or left standing upon a street, highway, city
parking lot or public area for seventy-two or more consecutive hours in
violation of Section
10.08.070;
   B.   When a vehicle is illegally parked on a street, highway, city parking
lot or public area in violation of a city ordinance forbidding standing or
parking and the use of a highway or a portion thereof is necessary for the
cleaning, repair or construction of the street, highway, city parking lot or
public area, or for the installation of underground utilities, and signs giving
notice that such vehicle may be removed are erected or placed at least twenty-
four hours prior to the removal;
   C.   Where the use of the street, highway, city parking lot or public area,
or any portion thereof, is authorized by the council for a purpose other than
the normal flow of traffic; or for the movement of equipment, articles or
structures of unusual size; and the parking of such vehicle would prohibit or
interfere with such use or movement; provided, that signs giving notice that
such vehicle may be removed are erected or placed at least twenty-four hours
prior to the removal;
   D.   Where any vehicle is parked or left standing upon a street, highway,
city parking lot or public area where the same has been prohibited by ordinance
or resolution and signs have been posted giving notice of such removal. (Ord.
94-05 § 4, 1994: Ord. 92-07 § 4 (part), 1992: prior code § 10.08.070)
10.08.110 Storage of removed vehicle.
   Whenever any police officer of the city removes a vehicle from a street or
highway within the city pursuant to this chapter, said vehicle shall be removed
and stored pursuant to the provisions of California Vehicle Code Section 22850,
et seq. (Prior code § 10.08.080)
10.08.120 Removal of chalk marks.
   A.   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle exercising the privilege of
parking a vehicle on any street or portion thereof where regulations are in
effect restricting the length of time vehicles may be parked on a street or
portion thereof does so on the condition that the police officers or parking
control officers of the city may place chalk or other removable marks on the
tire of the vehicle for the purpose of enforcing such parking regulations.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to erase, rub out, conceal or otherwise
remove, any chalk or other mark so placed by a police officer or parking
control officer while the marked vehicle remains parked on the street or
portion thereof. For the purpose of this section, the movement of a previously
marked vehicle in such a manner as to cause the tire marking to be concealed or
removed, and without leaving the parking space or the block where such vehicle
was parked when its tires were previously marked shall be deemed to be an
erasure or removal of such chalk or other marking. (Ord. 92-20 § 2, 1992)
10.08.130 Parking within designated stalls.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in a municipal parking lot
except within designated stalls and said vehicle must be stopped, standing or
parked within the painted stall markings. (Ord. 92-20 § 3, 1992)
10.08.140 Oversize vehicles and trailers.
   A.   Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 22507, it shall be unlawful
to park any oversize vehicle or trailer on any public street within a business
district between the hours of 11:00 p.m. of one day and 4:00 a.m. of the next
day.
   B.   Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 22507, it shall be unlawful
to park any oversize vehicle or trailer on any public street within the
following boundaries: all that area of the city southwest of United States
Highway 101 between the intersection of Dolliver and Price Streets on the
northwest, and Addie Street, as extended from the Pacific Ocean to United
States Highway 101, on the southeast.
   C.   As used herein, "business district" shall be defined pursuant to
California Vehicle Code Section 235.
   D.   As used herein, "oversize vehicle" shall be defined as any vehicle, or
combination of connected vehicles and/or trailers, in excess of twenty-three
(23) feet in length, inclusive of bumpers, or any vehicle or combination of
connected vehicles and/or trailers, in excess of eighty-four (84) inches high
at any point.
   E.   As used herein, "trailer" shall be defined pursuant to California
Vehicle Code Section 630.
(Ord. O-2018-004 § 2, 2018)
Chapter 10.10 PAID PARKING ZONE
10.10.010 Establishment of paid parking zone.
   A.   The parking of vehicles upon the streets, portions of streets and off-
street parking lots in this city, as hereinafter designated, within the paid
parking zone as hereinafter described shall be controlled, regulated and
inspected with the aid of parking meters, and shall be governed by the
provisions of this chapter. As used in this chapter, "parking meters" includes
all devices intended to collect coins, currency or other forms of payment for
the privilege of parking a vehicle in the paid parking zone, including but not
limited to parking meters and pay-and-display ticket dispensing stations. This
paid parking zone is hereby established and described as follows:
   All that area of the city southwest of United States Highway 101 between the
intersection of Dolliver and Price Streets on the northwest, and Addie Street,
as extended from the Pacific Ocean to United States Highway 101, on the
southeast.
   In the event no parking meters are installed regulating a parking space
within such paid parking zone, then the maximum time for parking shall be as
specified by Chapter 10.08 of this code or any ordinance or resolution of the
city council.
   B.   The director of public works or designee shall cause parking meters to
be installed and maintained within the paid parking zone and provide signage
indicating the time limits and rate of fees for parking within the paid parking
zone as authorized by city council resolution.
   C.   The coins, currency or other payments deposited in parking meters as
provided in this chapter are hereby levied and assessed as fees for the
following purposes:
   1.   For the purchasing, leasing, installing, repairing, maintaining,
operating, removing, regulating and policing of parking meters and pay-and-
display stations in the city and for the payment of any and all expenses
relating or incidental thereto.
   2.   For the purchasing, leasing, acquiring, improving, operating and
maintaining of off-street parking facilities in the city.
   3.   For the installation and maintenance of traffic control devices and
signals, and transportation and circulation improvements.
   4.   For the painting and marking of streets and curbs required for the
direction of traffic and the parking of motor vehicles.
   5.   For the proper regulation, control and inspection of parking and
traffic upon the public streets.
   6.   To be pledged as security for the payment of principal and interest on
bonds issued by the city or for the payment of parking improvements lease
payments to the Pismo Beach Public Financing Authority.
   7.    For transfer into the general fund to support the parking functions
and related public safety support of parking functions associated with and
located within the public safety facility project.
   8.    For beautification and streetscape improvements in the paid parking
zone.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 27, 2025; Ord. O-2023-004, 2023; Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part),
2007)
10.10.020 Time of operation of parking meters.
   The provisions of this chapter relating to the operation of parking meters
shall be effective on the days and between the hours as established by
resolution of the city council and as designated by sign or legend upon each
parking meter. (Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.030 Operational procedure to be followed.
   A.   Immediately after occupancy of a parking meter space, the operator of a
vehicle shall deposit a United States coin or currency, or other accepted form
of payment, in accordance with the instruction posted on the face of the
parking meter to activate the parking meter and indicate the parking time limit
achieved by the payment deposited therein. The operator of a vehicle who fails
to comply with this subsection shall be deemed to have committed a parking
violation and shall be subject to a fine.
   B. 1.   Immediately after occupancy of a pay-and-display station space, the
operator of a vehicle shall, if necessary, locate a pay-and- display station
for the zone in which the space is located and deposit a United States coin or
currency, or other accepted form of payment in accordance with the instruction
posted on the face of the pay-and-display station.
   2.   Upon obtaining the printed dispensing machine ticket from the pay-and-
display station, the operator of the vehicle shall return immediately to his
vehicle and place the dispensing machine ticket face up on the vehicle's
dashboard in such a manner that the expiration time and date are readily
visible from the exterior. The operator of a vehicle on which the pay-and-
display dispensing machine ticket is not properly displayed as provided in this
subsection shall be deemed to have committed a parking violation and shall be
subject to a fine.
   3.   It is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to permit said vehicle
to remain parked in any parking space during any time that pay-and-display
station ticket indicates that such space is illegally in use, such as where the
time has expired, or when the ticket is for a zone other than the zone in which
the space is located.
(Ord. O-2018-008, 2018: Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.040 Unlawful to park after parking time has expired.
   A.   No operator of any vehicle shall permit said vehicle to remain parked
in any parking space during any time that the meter is showing a signal
indicating that such space is illegally in use other than such time immediately
after the original occupancy as is necessary to operate the meter to show legal
parking.
   B.   A motor vehicle on which is properly displayed a valid pay-and-display
dispensing machine ticket as provided for herein shall be permitted to stand or
be parked in a pay-and-display parking space for which the dispensing machine
ticket has been issued for the period of time indicated on the dispensing
machine ticket without being subject to parking penalties. However, the
operator of any motor vehicle on which there is not displayed a valid
dispensing machine ticket as provided herein shall be deemed to have committed
a parking violation and shall be subject to a fine.
   C.   The parking or standing of any vehicle in a parking space, at which
space the parking meter or pay-and-display station dispensing machine ticket
indicates illegal parking, shall constitute a prima facie presumption that the
vehicle has been parked or allowed to stand in such space for a period longer
than permitted by this chapter. (Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.050 Exceeding paid parking time.
   No operator of any vehicle shall allow said vehicle to remain parked in a
metered parking space or a space regulated by a pay-and-display station beyond
the paid parking period. A violation of this section occurs when a vehicle
remains parked after the expiration of the paid time as indicated by the meter
or the pay-and-display receipt. If the violation continues, an additional
citation may be issued for each subsequent one (1) hour period where the
vehicle remains unlawfully parked. Each one (1) hour period of illegal parking
after the initial violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. O-2025-
003 § 2, 2025; Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.060 Unlawful to extend time beyond limit.
   No person shall follow the operational procedure established in Section
10.10.030 for the purpose of increasing or extending the parking time of any
vehicle beyond the maximum legal parking time established for the particular
parking space. Each successive maximum period of time, or portion thereof,
during which the maximum legal parking time has been extended in excess of the
initial period, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part),
2007)
10.10.070 Parking meters and parking standards not to be used for certain
purposes.
   No person shall attach anything to or allow a bicycle, newsrack or any other
article or thing to lean against a parking meter or a parking meter support
device. (Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.080 Improper use of parking meter.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any
defaced or bent coin, foreign coin or currency, or any slug, device or other
counterfeit substitute for genuine coin or currency of the United States or
other authorized payment method, or deface, injure, tamper with, open or
willfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any parking meter. Any
person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord.
07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.090 Interference with enforcement unlawful.
   No person shall interfere with, or obstruct in any way, any police officer,
traffic enforcement officer, or other officer or employee of this city in their
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The removal, obliteration,
erasure or concealment of any chalk mark or other distinguishing mark used by
any police officer, traffic enforcement officer, or other officer or employee
of this city in the performance of their duties to enforce the parking
regulations of this chapter, if done for the purpose of evading the provisions
of this chapter, shall constitute unlawful interference or obstruction of
enforcement. Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.100 Parking space indicated.
   The city shall have lines, numbers or markings painted or placed upon the
curb or street adjacent to each parking meter, designating the parking space
for which said meter is to be used, and each vehicle parked adjacent to or next
to any parking meter shall park within the lines or markings so established. No
person shall park any vehicle across any such lines or markings or park a
vehicle in such a position that the same shall not be entirely within the space
designated by such lines or markings. (Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.110 Fine schedule.
   Except as otherwise indicated, any operator who shall stand, stop or park a
vehicle in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
to have committed a parking violation, and shall be liable to the city for a
fine. The fine for each violation of this chapter shall be established by
resolution of the city council, and may be modified from time to time in the
judgment of the city council. (Ord. 07-03 § 1 (part), 2007)
10.10.120 Suspension of paid parking requirements.
   Any provision or provisions of this chapter may be suspended from time to
time by resolution of the city council in any case where the council finds that
strict compliance would not serve the public interest, including, but not
limited to, the use of public streets and sidewalks for celebrations, special
public events, celebration of holiday seasons and any other such activity or
purpose as the city council in its sole discretion shall determine. (Ord. 07-03
§ 1 (part), 2007)
Chapter 10.12 WEIGHT LIMITS
10.12.010 Limitations.
   No limitation as to usage or the weight of vehicles using city streets other
than is provided by the laws of the state shall apply to vehicles using the
following streets in the city:
   Dolliver Street;
   Price Street;
   Hinds Avenue, between Bello and Dolliver Streets;
   The Edna Road, from the city limits to Bello Street;
   Bello Street, from the Edna Road to Hinds Avenue; and
   Ocean View Avenue, between Price and Dolliver Streets. (Prior code §
10.12.010)
10.12.020 Truck and commercial vehicle restrictions.
   No trucks or commercial vehicles shall use or be on the following designated
streets, except for the purpose of making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares
and merchandise from or to any building or structure located on such restricted
streets. The streets are designated as follows:
   Pomeroy Street, between Price and Cypress Streets;
   Cypress Street, from Pomeroy Street to Ocean View Avenue; and
   Ocean View Avenue, between Cypress and Dolliver Streets. (Prior code §
10.12.020)
10.12.030 Eight thousand pound limit.
   On all other streets in the city, other than those listed in Sections
10.12.010 and
10.12.020, and except as otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Works
or designee, no trucks or commercial vehicles and no vehicles of any type where
the total gross loaded weight on such vehicle exceeds eight thousand (8,000)
pounds shall be allowed thereon; provided however, that trucks or commercial
vehicles having less than a total gross loaded weight of eight thousand (8,000)
pounds shall be permitted thereon when necessary for the purpose of making
pickups or deliveries of goods, wares, merchandise from or to any building or
structure located on one of such restricted streets within the city limits;
provided further that neither the limitation as to type of vehicle or as to
weight limitation shall apply to a vehicle necessarily being on one of such
restricted streets for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the
actual and bona fide repair, alteration, remodeling, or construction of any
building or structure upon such a restricted street within the city limits for
which a building permit has previously been obtained from the city. Deliveries
shall be demonstrated by a bill of lading or other documentation acceptable to
the chief of police, director of public works, or their respective designees.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to passenger buses under the
jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission, to any vehicle owned by a
public utility while necessarily in use in the construction, installation, or
repair of any utility, or to emergency vehicles. (Ord. O-2024-002, § 2, 2024:
Prior code § 10.12.030)
10.12.040 Sign erection authority.
   The chief of police of the city shall erect or cause to be erected
appropriate signs indicating the various limitations which have been imposed on
the streets as set forth in this chapter. (Prior code § 10.12.040)
Chapter 10.16 ABANDONED VEHICLES
10.16.010 Nuisance declared.
   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or
parts thereof, on private or public property not including highways, except as
expressly permitted in this chapter, is declared to constitute a public
nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Prior code § 8.28.010)
10.16.020 Hazard declared.
   The presence of an abandoned, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts
thereof, on private or public property, which is determined by the fire chief
or his representative to constitute an immediate, life-endangering threat to
the public health and safety, may be removed to an appropriate location
immediately and without the notification procedures described herein. The owner
of any such vehicle shall be responsible for any and all costs of towing,
storage, and other charges connected therewith. (Uniform Fire Code Section
10.101.) (Prior code § 8.28.015)
10.16.030 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter the words and phrases defined in this section
shall mean as follows:
   "Highway" means a way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. Highway
includes street.
   "Owner of the land" means the owner of the land on which the vehicle, or
parts thereof, is located, as shown on the last equalized assessment roll.
   "Owner of the vehicle" means the last registered owners and legal owner of
record.
   "Public property" does not include highway.
   "Vehicle" means a device by which any person or property may be propelled,
moved, or drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Prior code § 8.28.020)
10.16.040 Exemptions.
   A.   This chapter does not apply to:
   1.   A vehicle, or parts thereof, which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   2.   A vehicle, or parts thereof, which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than Chapter 10
(commencing with Section 22650) of Division 11 of the Vehicle Code and this
chapter. (Prior code § 8.28.030)
10.16.050 Supplemental regulations.
   This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles within the city. It shall supplement and be
in addition to other regulatory codes, statutes, and ordinances heretofore or
hereafter enacted by the city or any other legal entity or agency having
jurisdiction. (Prior code § 8.28.040)
10.16.060 Enforcement authority.
   Except as otherwise provided, the provisions of this chapter shall be
administered and enforced by the city's chief of police. In the enforcement of
this chapter such officer and his deputies may enter upon private or public
property to examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain information as to the
identity of a vehicle and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts
thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter. (Prior code §
8.28.050)
10.16.070 Contract or franchise for vehicle removal—Authority.
   When the council has contracted with or granted a franchise to any person or
persons, such person or persons shall be authorized to enter upon private
property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared
to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter. (Prior code § 8.28.060)
10.16.080 Administrative cost determination.
   The council shall from time to time determine and fix an amount to be
assessed as administrative costs, under this chapter. (Prior code § 8.28.070)
10.16.090 Chief of police—Abatement authority.
   Upon discovering the existence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperative vehicle, or parts thereof, on private property or public property
within the city, the chief of police shall have the authority to cause the
abatement or removal thereof in accordance with the procedure prescribed in
this chapter. (Prior code § 8.28.080)
10.16.100 Abatement notice—Required--Form.
   A ten-day notice of intention to abate and remove the vehicle, or parts
thereof, as a public nuisance shall be mailed by registered or certified mail
to the owner of the land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is
in such condition that identification numbers are not available to determine
ownership. The notices of intention shall be in substantially the following
forms:
   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND
   REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED,
   DISMANTLED, OR INOPERATIVE
   VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC
   NUISANCE (Name and address of owner of the land)
   As owner on the last equalized assessment roll of the land located at
(address) you are hereby notified that undersigned, pursuant to Section 7 of
Pismo Beach Ordinance No. 185 has determined that there exists upon said land
an (or parts of an) abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle
registered to  , license number   which constitutes a public nuisance pursuant
to the provisions of Pismo Beach Ordinance No. 185.
   You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said
vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) within ten (10) days from the date of
mailing of this notice, and upon your failure to do so, the same will be abated
and removed by the city and the costs thereof, together with administrative
costs, assessed to you as owner of the land on which said vehicle (or said
parts of a vehicle) is located.
   As owner of the land on which said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) is
located, you are hereby notified that you may, within ten (10) days after the
mailing of this notice of intention, request a public hearing and if such a
request is not received by the Pismo Beach City Council within such 10 day
period, Pismo Beach Chief of Police shall have the authority to abate and
remove said vehicle (or parts of a vehicle) as a public nuisance and assess the
costs as aforesaid without a public hearing. You may submit a sworn
responsibility for the presence of said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) on
said land, with your reasons for denial, and such statement shall be construed
as a request for hearing at which your presence is not required. You may appear
in person at any hearing requested by you or the owner of the vehicle or, in
lieu thereof, may present a sworn written statement as aforesaid in time for
consideration at such hearing.
   Notice Mailed: 
   date
   s/
   Chief of Police
   NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND
   REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED,
   DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR
   PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
   (Name and address of last registered and/or legal owner of record of vehicle
-- notice should be given to both if different)
   As last registered (and/or legal) owner of record of (description of
vehicle, make, model, license, etc.) you are hereby notified that the
undersigned, pursuant to Section 7 of Pismo Beach Ordinance No. 185, has
determined that said vehicle (or parts of a vehicle) exists as an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle at (described location on public or
private property) and constitutes a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions
of Pismo Beach Ordinance No. 185.
   You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said
vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) within ten (10) days from the date of
mailing of this notice.
   As registered (and/or legal) owner of record of said vehicle (or said parts
of vehicle), you are hereby notified that you may, within ten (10) days after
the mailing of this notice of intention, request for a public hearing and
if such a request is not received by the City Council within such ten-day
period, the Pismo Beach Chief of Police shall have the authority to abate and
remove said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) without a hearing.
   Notice Mailed  
   date
   s/
   Chief of Police
(Prior code § 8.28.090)
10.16.110 Hearing—Request—Notice.
   A.   Upon request by the owner of the vehicle or owner of the land received
by the chief of police within ten days after the mailing of the notices of
intention to abate and remove, a public hearing shall be held by the council on
the question of abatement and removal of the vehicle or parts thereof as an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and the assessment of
the administrative costs and the costs of removal of the vehicle or parts
thereof against the property on which it is located.
   B.   If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land within such ten-day
period, the statement shall be construed as a request for a hearing which does
not require his presence. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed, by registered
or certified mail, at least ten days before the hearing to the owner of the
land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such condition
that identification numbers are not available to determine ownership. If such a
request for hearing is not received within said ten days after mailing of the
notice of intention to abate and remove, the city shall have the authority to
abate and remove the vehicle or parts thereof as a public nuisance without
holding a public hearing. (Prior code § 8.28.100)
10.16.120 Hearing—Facts and testimony.
   All hearings under this chapter shall be held before the council, which
shall hear all facts and testimony as it deems pertinent. Said facts and
testimony may include testimony on the condition of the vehicle or parts
thereof and the circumstances concerning its location on the said private
property or public property. The council shall not be limited by technical
rules of evidence. The owner of the land may appear in person at the hearing or
present a sworn written statement in time for consideration at the hearing, and
deny responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land, with his
reason for such denial. (Prior code § 8.28.110)
10.16.130 Council—Action—Imposition of conditions.
   The council may impose such conditions and take such other action as it
deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this
chapter. It may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or parts thereof if,
in its opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the council may find that a vehicle or parts thereof has been
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or is inoperative on private or public property
and order the same removed from the property as a public nuisance and disposed
of as provided in this chapter, and determine the administrative costs and the
cost of removal to be charged against the owner of the land. The order
requiring removal shall include a description of the vehicle or parts thereof
and the correct identification number and license number of the vehicle, if
available at the site. (Prior code § 8.28.120)
10.16.140 Exemption from cost assessment.
   If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the land
without the consent of the owner of the land and that he has not subsequently
acquiesced in its presence, the council shall not assess the costs of
administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon which the
vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect such costs from such owner
of the land. (Prior code § 8.28.130)
10.16.150 Notification of decision.
   If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land but does not appear,
or if an interested party makes a written presentation to the council but does
not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision. (Prior code §
8.28.140)
10.16.160 Removal of vehicle.
   Five days after adoption of the order declaring the vehicle or parts thereof
to be a public nuisance, five days from the date of mailing of the notice of
the decision if such notice is required by Section
10.16.150, the vehicle or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal to a
scrapyard or automobile dismantler's yard. After a vehicle has been removed it
shall not thereafter be reconstructed or made operable. (Prior code § 8.28.150)
10.16.170 Notice to Department of Motor Vehicles.
   Within five days after the date of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof,
notice shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles identifying the
vehicle or parts thereof removed. At the same time there shall be transmitted
to the Department of Motor Vehicles any evidence of registration available,
including registration certificates, certificates of title and license plates.
(Prior code § 8.28.160)
10.16.180 Cost assessment.
   If the administrative costs and the cost of removal which are charged
against the owner of a parcel of land pursuant to Section
10.16.130 are not paid within thirty days of the date of the order, such costs
shall be assessed against the parcel of land pursuant to Section 38773.5 of the
Government Code and shall be transmitted to the tax collector for collection.
Said assessment shall have the same priority as other city taxes. (Prior code §
8.28.170)
Chapter 10.18 VEHICLE IMPOUND RELEASE FEE
10.18.010 Purpose.
   It is the intent of this chapter to recover the costs involved in the lawful
impounding of private vehicles pursuant to the specific California Vehicle Code
sections which result from some unlawful act or omission by the owner or
driver. This would be accomplished by establishing a fee to obtain a vehicle
impound release from the police department. The vehicle impound release is
evidence that the police department has removed its hold on the vehicle. The
form will be required to obtain the release of the vehicle from the towing
company. Through the enactment of a vehicle impound release fee, it is hoped
that the persons having their vehicle impounded by the police department as a
result of their disobedience of the law, will correct the unlawful conditions
causing the impound and eliminate the need for further enforcement. By doing
so, existing police resources can be more effectively and efficiently deployed
toward higher priority safety situations. (Ord. 92-10 (part), 1992)
10.18.020 Definitions.
   Any term defined in this chapter shall have the meaning contained therein
for the purpose of this chapter unless otherwise expressly stated or the
content clearly indicates a different intention. (Ord. 92-10 (part), 1992)
10.18.030 Vehicle impound release fee.
   There is imposed a fee upon any vehicle's current registered owner, the
legal owner, or his or her designate, seeking to obtain a vehicle impound
release from the police department where such vehicle has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of the California Vehicle Code. Such a vehicle
impound release indicates to the towing company in possession of the impounded
vehicle that the police department no longer has a hold on the vehicle and that
it is cleared to be released. The vehicle impound release fee shall be set
forth by resolution. (Ord. 92-10 (part), 1992)
10.18.040 Criteria for vehicle impound release fee imposition.
   Vehicles deemed as impounded by the police department shall be subject to
the imposition of the vehicle impound release fee at the time such release is
sought by the owner. (Ord. 92-10 (part), 1992)
10.18.050 Exceptions to fee imposition.
   The vehicle impound release fee shall not be applied to impounded vehicles
which meet any of the following criteria:
   A.   When the vehicle is a recovered stolen vehicle and the vehicle is being
released to the registered owner or his/her designate [Vehicle Code Section
22651(c)];
   B.   When the vehicle was taken as evidence, or as the container of evidence
or as a part of a criminal investigation and the owner of the vehicle was a
witness to or a victim of a crime and not the suspect in such investigation;
   C.   When the vehicle was impounded in error;
   D.   When the chief of police or designate determines after a post-storage
hearing where one has been requested, that the facts disclosed at such hearing
warrant a waiver of the fee;
   E.   When the vehicle was stored pursuant to injured or ill drivers of an
accident [Vehicle Code Section 22651(g)]. (Ord. 92-10 (part), 1992)
Chapter 10.22 OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
10.22.010 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, "off-highway motor vehicle" means and includes any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or motor vehicle commonly referred to as a sand
buggy, dune buggy, all-terrain vehicle or jeep. (Ord. 94-07 § 1 (part), 1994)
10.22.020 Prohibition.
   No person shall operate any off-highway motor vehicle on any undeveloped
property, whether public or private, within the city limits, without the
written permission of the property owner. (Ord. 94-07 § 1 (part), 1994)
10.22.030 Violation--Penalty.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction. (Ord. 94-07 § 1 (part), 1994)
Chapter 10.24 SKATEBOARDS
10.24.010 Definitions.
   Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them:
   "Motorized scooter" means any wheeled device that has handlebars, has a
floorboard that is designed to be stood upon when riding, and is powered by an
electric motor, internal combustion motor, battery, or other power source. This
device may also have a driver seat that does not interfere with the ability of
the rider to stand and ride and may also be designed to be powered by human
propulsion. Similar devices powered solely by human propulsion are not
motorized scooters. A motorcycle, as defined in Section 400 of the California
Vehicle Code, a motor-driven cycle, as defined in Section 405 of the California
Vehicle Code, or a motorized bicycle or moped, as defined in Section 406 of the
California Vehicle Code, is not a motorized scooter. An electric personal
assistive mobility device as defined in Section 313 of the California Vehicle
Code is not a motorized scooter.
   "Motorized scooter share program" means a system of self-service motorized
scooters for hire that offers to users a shared pool of one or more self-
service motorized scooters for use on sidewalks, streets, in the public right-
of-way, or on public property.
   "Sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curblines and the
adjacent property lines set aside for pedestrian travel.
   "Street" is a way or place, of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open
to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular traffic. (Ord. O-2018-014, §
2, 2018: prior code § 10.24.010)
10.24.020 Prohibition.
   A.   No persons upon any skateboard, or any device resembling a skateboard,
shall go upon any public street within the city or upon any curb, gutter or
sidewalk in any commercial or government zone of the city.
   B.   No persons upon any motorized skateboard or motorized scooter, or any
device resembling a motorized skateboard or motorized scooter, shall go upon
any public street, public parking lot, public park or any sidewalk within the
city.
   C.   No motorized scooter share program shall be operated within the city.
   D.   Upon notification by the city that any motorized scooter belonging to a
motorized scooter share program operator is parked, left standing, or
unattended on any sidewalk, street, or public right-of-way under the
jurisdiction of the city, the motorized scooter share program operator shall
remove the motorized scooter within one hour of being notified by the city.
Failure to do so shall result in the scooter being impounded. The motorized
scooter share program operator may be issued an administrative citation
pursuant to
Chapter 1.24.
(Ord. O-2018-014, § 3, 2018: Ord. 96-14 § 1, 1996: Ord. 93-12 § 1 (part), 1993:
prior code § 10.24.020)
10.24.030 Reckless use prohibited.
   No person shall use or operate any skateboard, motorized skateboard,
motorized scooter or any device resembling a skateboard, motorized skateboard
or motorized scooter upon any sidewalk, public street, public parking lot,
public park or private property designated for public use when such property is
posted by the owner in accordance with Section
10.24.040 hereof, in a negligent and/or reckless manner which endangers the
safety of persons or property. (Ord. 93-12 § 1 (part), 1993: Ord. 93-05 § 1,
1993)
10.24.040 Private property.
   It is unlawful to use or operate skateboards, motorized skateboards,
motorized scooters or any device resembling a skateboard, motorized skateboard
or motorized scooter on any private property designated for public use when the
owner or person in charge of the property has posted the signs prohibiting such
use. An appropriate sign will identify the prohibited activity, include a
citation to this code section, and be of sufficient size to be easily visible
to those entering the property. (Ord. 93-12 § 2, 1993: Ord. 93-05 § 2, 1993)
10.24.050 Violation--Penalty.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as follows:
   A.   A fine not exceeding fifty dollars for the first violation of this
chapter;
   B.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars for a second violation of this
chapter within one year;
   C.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars for each additional
violation of this chapter within one year. (Ord. 93-5 § 3, 1993: prior code §
10.24.030)
Chapter 10.28 POLICE TOWING SERVICES
10.28.010 Police towing services—Establishment authority.
   In exercise of their power, the city council may regulate the operations of
police towing services contracted to the city to include rates and fees charged
resulting from police towing services requested pursuant to California Vehicle
Code Section 21100(g). The chief of police is authorized and directed to enter
into and regulate police towing services contracted to private tow companies.
Tow service providers shall provide tow service to the city on request in
accordance with all the rules and regulations outlined in this chapter. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply only to the towing and storage of
vehicles, contracted as a result of police activity or in the performance of
duties as a city contracted tow service provider. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.020 Definitions.
   The following words shall have the meaning given herein:
   A.   "City" is the city of Pismo Beach.
   B.   "Person" is any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   C.   "Tow service provider" is a person under contract with the city to
provide the services of a vehicle tow truck or trucks or towing service,
whereby motor vehicles are towed or otherwise moved by use of a tow truck so
designed for that purpose or by a truck, automobile, or other vehicle so
adapted to that purpose. Tow service providers must be under contract with the
California Highway Patrol to provide towing services. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part),
2001)
10.28.030 Police tow service contract.
   Police tow service contracts are valid for a period of one year and
effective from July 1st through June 30th of the following year. Tow service
providers will be required to sign an initial contract which will automatically
renew annually unless canceled by either party. The chief of police may review
the tow service contracts on an annual basis to evaluate the service provided
by the tow company. Only towing service operators under contract with the city
as provided herein shall be entitled to participate in the distribution of city
towing service orders. Any contract entered into pursuant to these regulations
shall not affect any other permit or license requirements imposed by federal,
state or local law. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.040 Application.
   A.   Application for tow services contract shall be made to the chief of
police by submitting the following documents:
   1.   Copy of the California Highway Patrol rotation tow listing application;
   2.   Copy of current general and automobile liability insurance policies;
   3.   Copy of current workers compensation insurance policy;
   4.   Copy of city of Pismo Beach business tax certificate;
   5.   Description, including photographs, of storage areas;
   6.   Description, including photographs, of all tow trucks.
   B.   An initial application hereunder shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable application fee to be established by resolution of the city
council.
   C.   The chief of police may recommend to the city council that a contract
be entered into with the applicant if the operator meets all the requirements
of these regulations, and any other requirements imposed by federal, state or
local law. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.050 Compensation.
   Tow service providers shall receive no compensation except those fees
payable by parties responsible for fees due to towing services rendered. In no
event shall the city be under obligation to compensate tow service provider for
services rendered to other parties. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.060 Contract termination.
   A.   Default. The contract may be terminated by the city if the tow service
provider:
   1.   Ceases operations for any reason, or fails or refuses to promptly
answer city calls for towing services;
   2.   Fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter or the fee
schedule;
   3.   Fails to respond to the twenty-minute maximum response time
requirements without previously notifying the police dispatchers.
   B.   Termination for Cause. If, through any cause, the tow service provider
shall fail to fulfill in a timely and proper manner its obligations under the
contract, or if the tow service provider violates any of the covenants,
agreements or stipulations of the contract, the city will thereupon have the
right to terminate the contract by giving written notice to the tow service
provider of such termination and specifying the effective date thereof, at
least three days before the effective date of such termination.
   Notwithstanding the above, the tow service provider will not be relieved of
liability to the city for damages sustained by the city by virtue of any breach
of the contract by the tow service provider.
   C.   Termination for Convenience of the City. The city may terminate the
contract at any time by notice in writing from the city to the tow service
provider at least five days before the effective date of such termination.
(Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.070 Rates and fees.
   A.   Towing fees of the tow service providers will be reasonable and shall
not exceed those rates established by the local area California Highway Patrol.
   B.   Rates and charges shall be posted in the tow service provider's office,
visible to the public.
   C.   A copy of the schedule of current rates shall be provided to the police
department. The police department shall be advised in writing of any proposed
adjustment of the rates prior to any rate adjustment taking place. The chief of
police shall verify that the proposed rates do not exceed the then current
rates established by the local area California Highway Patrol and no rate
increase shall take effect until authorized in writing by the chief of police.
   D.   In the event the police department accepts responsibility for a tow, no
charge will be made for storage fees to the city or to any other person or
business. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.080 Independent contractor status.
   A.   The relationship between the tow service provider and the city is that
of independent contractor. The tow service provider is not an employee of the
city, and is not entitled to the benefits provided by the city to its
employees, including, but not limited, to group insurance and retirement plans.
   B.   The conduct and control of the services to be performed by the tow
service provider under this contract will lie solely with the tow service
provider. The tow service provider will perform its services for the city in
accordance with currently approved methods and ethical standards applicable to
its professional capacity. The tow service provider will be free to practice
its profession and/or trade for others during those periods when it is not
performing work under the contract for the city.
   C.   The tow service provider will provide its own motor vehicles and will
maintain and operate the vehicles at its own expense. The vehicles will be
maintained by the tow service provider in a safe and serviceable condition.
(Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.090 Requirements of tow service providers.
   Each tow service provider shall meet and maintain the following
requirements:
   A.   Response to Tow Requests.
   1.   Tow service providers shall be available for response within the
incorporated area of the city and within a reasonable distance of those limits
on a twenty-four hour, seven day per week basis. Services originating as a
result of a call from the police department shall not be subcontracted to
another contracting tow service provider or to any other person or business at
any time of the day or night.
   2.   Tow service providers shall be capable of responding a minimum of two
tow service vehicles within the defined area within twenty minutes. If the tow
service provider is unable to respond as required, the police dispatcher will
be so advised so that another tow service may be summoned.
   3.   Tow service providers shall conduct business in an ethical, orderly
manner, endeavoring to obtain and keep the confidence of the community. They
will abide by the decisions of police officers or code enforcement officers.
   B.   Training and Experience.
   Tow service provider shall provide proper and adequate training and
supervision of its agents and personnel. No charge will be permitted if, in the
opinion of the city, a charge, or part of a charge, results from inadequate
training and/or inexperience of the tow service provider, its employees,
personnel, or agents. Each tow service provider requesting a contract shall
have been operating as a towing service in the San Luis Obispo County for not
less than six months prior to requesting the contract. Any tow truck driver
employed by a tow service provider shall have had sufficient training and/or
experience to enable the driver to safely and competently tow vehicles.
   C.   Employee Records. The tow service provider shall keep complete and
accurate records of its employees and maintain these records for at least two
years after an employee or agent leaves its employment, and that these records
shall be made available to the office of the Pismo Beach city attorney upon
request.
   D.   Towing and Storage Records. The tow service provider shall maintain
complete and thorough records of all city requested towing and storage
transactions, including consecutively numbered receipts and the same shall be
open for inspection by the city at any reasonable time with or without notice.
The records and receipts shall be maintained in good condition in a safe and
secure area for a period of not less than two years and shall be kept longer if
requested by the city. Information in the records shall include times and dates
of towage, locations from which vehicles are towed, their descriptions, license
numbers, etc. and the fees paid by the claimant of the vehicle.
   E.   Office and Storage Facility. Tow service providers shall maintain a
physical location within five miles of the geographic boundaries of the city.
All structures and property involved in the operator's wrecking, towing and
storage operations shall be in compliance with all applicable building, fire,
and zoning codes and ordinances, and with all adopted or proposed land use
plans. All towed vehicles must be stored within an area which is screened from
street view by a six foot high view-obscuring fence. No towed vehicle may be
parked by the tow service provider or its employees or agents outside its
authorized and licensed storage yard.
   F.   Equipment. A tow service provider must have the following equipment:
   1.   A minimum of two boom tow trucks; each having at least ten thousand
pound gross vehicle weight capacity.
   2.   Each tow truck shall have a winch and cable; each of a weight bearing
or pulling capacity equal to the gross load capacity of the tow truck to which
they are attached. Each boom tow truck shall have cables at least one hundred
fifty feet long. All winches shall have safety dogs or equivalent braking
devices.
   3.   Each tow truck shall be maintained in compliance with the provisions of
Sections 24605, 25300, 27722 and 27907 of the California Vehicle Code.
   G.   Other Duties.
   1.   Tow service providers shall, upon request by the police department,
protect from disturbance and touching all surfaces and contents of an impounded
vehicle, until released from such obligation by a representative of the police
department.
   2.   Allow inspection for impounded or stored vehicles by any person
estimating or appraising damage to such vehicles, and shall assist police
representatives making such inspections.
   3.   Remove hazards and clean up debris at the area of a towing operation.
   4.   Upon being called by a city dispatcher, advise the dispatcher of any
inability to immediately respond within a period of twenty minutes. The
dispatcher may then redirect the request to the next eligible tow service
provider on the rotational list, in which case, the tow service provider unable
to immediately respond loses its rotational turn.
   5.   Comply with all instructions of city dispatchers and of police officers
at the scenes of towing operations.
   6.   Have available for customers, upon their request, the then current rate
schedule established by the local area California Highway Patrol. (Ord. 01-02 §
1 (part), 2001)
10.28.100 Vehicle storage.
   Tow service providers shall be solely responsible for the safekeeping of all
vehicles towed, and for any personal property within the towed vehicle. In
keeping with this responsibility, tow service providers shall provide secured
areas in which towed vehicles may be safely stored in an area until ready for
release to authorized persons.
   A.   No vehicle will be stored in "inside storage" and charged as such
without prior approval of the police department watch commander.
   B.   Tow service providers shall have the capability for releasing vehicles
between eight a.m. and five p.m., normal business days (generally Monday
through Friday or Saturday), and by appointment after hours and during
nonbusiness days.
   C.   Tow service providers have the responsibility for safeguarding all
articles left in impounded vehicles. Bulk property left in vehicles will
normally be listed on the vehicle impound report by the police officers. Any
article removed for any reason will be properly identified on the tow service
provider's copy of the impound report.
   D.   The impound report will be signed by the impounding officer. The tow
operator will also sign the report. Stored vehicles from accident scenes do not
require an impound report. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.110 Legal requirements.
   All tow service vehicles and all tow vehicle operators will meet all legal
requirements in respect to proper licensing, mechanical equipment, emergency
lighting, towing, storage, lien selling, or junking. Tow service providers will
comply with all vehicle code sections pertaining to required equipment (VC
27700), lighting equipment (VC24605-06, 25110, 25253), signs (VC27907), drivers
(VC2430, 2431, 2436.5, 2436.7, 2432). Tow service providers will also comply
with Vehicle Code Section 10652 requiring the reporting of vehicles stored for
a period of thirty days or more. The police department will be supplied with a
copy of the report required under Vehicle Code Section 10652. (Ord. 01-02 § 1
(part), 2001)
10.28.120 City indemnification.
   Tow service providers shall indemnify and save the city and its officers,
agents and employees harmless against all claims for damages to persons or
property arising out of tow service providers execution of the work, or
otherwise by the conduct of the operator or its employees, agents,
subcontractors, or others (including the active and passive negligence of the
city, its officers, agents and employees) in connection with the execution of
the work covered by this contract and any and all costs, expenses, attorney's
fees and liability incurred by the city, its officers, agents, or employees in
defending against such claims, whether the same proceed to judgment or not,
except only for those claims arising from the sole negligence or willful
misconduct of the city, its officers, agents, or employees. Further, tow
service provider at his own expense shall, upon written request by the city,
defend any such suit or action brought against the city, its officers, agents
or employees.
   Tow service providers shall reimburse the city for all costs and expenses
(including but not limited to fees and charges of engineers, attorneys, and
other professionals and court costs) incurred by city in enforcing the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.130 Insurance.
   A.   Tow service provider shall, throughout the duration of its contract,
maintain comprehensive general liability and property damage insurance, or
commercial general liability insurance, covering all its operations, its agents
and employees, performed in connection with the contract including but not
limited to premises and automobile.
   B.   Tow service provider shall maintain the following minimum limits:
   1.   General liability: combined single limit per occurrence-one million
dollars;
   2.   Automobile liability; combined single limit per occurrence-one million
dollars.
   C.   All insurance companies affording coverage to the tow service provider
shall be required to add the city as "additional insured" under the insurance
policy.
   D.   All insurance companies affording coverage to the tow service provider
shall be insurance organizations authorized by the Insurance Commissioner of
the State Department of Insurance to transact business of insurance in the
state of California.
   E.   All insurance companies affording coverage shall provide thirty days'
written notice to the city should the policy be canceled before the expiration
date. For the purposes of this notice requirement, any material change in the
policy prior to the expiration shall be considered a cancellation.
   F.   Tow service provider shall provide evidence of compliance with the
insurance requirements listed above by providing a certificate of insurance, in
a form satisfactory to the city attorney, concurrently with the submittal of
the application. A statement of the insurance certificate which states that the
insurance company "will endeavor" to notify the certificate holder, "but
failure to mail such notice shall impose no obligation or liability of any kind
upon the company, its agents or representatives" does not satisfy the
requirements. The tow service provider shall ensure that the above quoted
language is stricken from the certificate by the authorized representative of
the insurance company.
   G.   Tow service provider shall provide a substitute certificate of
insurance no later than thirty days prior to the policy expiration date.
Failure by the operator to provide such a substitution and extend the policy
expiration date shall be considered a default by tow service provider.
   H.   Maintenance of insurance by the tow service provider as specified in
this chapter shall in no way be interpreted as relieving the tow service
provider of any responsibility whatever and the tow service provider may carry,
at its own expense, such additional insurance as it deems necessary.
   I.   Pursuant to Labor Code Section 3700, the tow service provider shall be
insured against liability for worker's compensation or undertake self-insurance
in accordance with provisions of that code, and provide certification of such
compliance as part of the application process. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.140 Abandoned vehicles.
   Tow service providers will furnish the necessary personnel and equipment to
pick up, tow away and lawfully dispose of all motor vehicles abandoned in the
city, irrespective of value, as designated by the police department.
   A.   Abandoned vehicles will be removed from city streets and private
property without charge to the city if requested by police or code enforcement
personnel. Abandoned vehicle impounds requested by private property owners are
not a police matter and will be subject to rates and fees established by the
tow company.
   B.   Abandoned vehicles will, if at all possible, be towed during Monday
through Friday, eight a.m. to five p.m. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.150 Assignment of tow requests.
   The tow service provider will accept the decision of the chief of police as
it relates to the assignment of calls, if more than one business or company
operates as a tow service provider. The city will make every attempt to equally
distribute the calls-for-service on a "rotation" basis. The city retains the
right to assign at its election, where in its sole discretion it determines
that a particular service or equipment is required and convenience to the
particular need, which would permit them, when they feel a particular operator
can service a particular need better than another, or has equipment. more
appropriate than another, to exercise discretion in the assignment. (Ord. 01-02
§ 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.160 Police towing service provider files.
   The chief of police or designee will maintain a record file of each tow
service provider. Such file will include the tow service provider's application
for a tow services contract, a copy of the contract, copy of insurance
coverages, and a record of all inspections and complaints regarding the
respective tow service providers. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.170 Disputes and claims.
   The city council designates authority to the chief of police or his
authorized agent to settle any claim or dispute involving the city and the tow
service provider. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
10.28.180 Appeal.
   Any tow service provider whose application for a permit has been denied or
whose permit has been revoked may appeal in writing within five days of notice
of such action to the city manager. The city manager or his or her
representative will review the decision for reasonableness and may receive
evidence and testimony from all interested parties. The decision of the city
manager shall be final. (Ord. 01-02 § 1 (part), 2001)
Chapter 10.32 TRIP REDUCTION MEASURES
10.32.010 Incorporated by reference.
   The provisions of Rule 901, as adopted by the Air Pollution Control District
on May 24, 1995, and subsequent updates as required are incorporated by
reference. (Ord. 95-12 § 1, 1995)
Title 12 STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Chapter 12.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS
12.04.010 When required.
   Any owner, lessee or agent constructing or arranging for the construction of
a building or dwelling or moving of a building or dwelling upon a lot shall
also construct or cause to be constructed concrete curbs, gutters and sidewalks
in accordance with specifications set forth in this chapter, unless concrete
curbs, gutters and sidewalks already exist along all street frontages adjoining
the lot or lots on which the building or dwelling is to be constructed;
provided, however, that in areas not subdivided or parceled into one-half acre
or smaller lots, curb and sidewalk need not be installed for a greater distance
than the minimum lot width required by the zoning regulations for the zone in
which said area is located. For corner parcels in such unsubdivided areas, the
side frontage shall be determined by the minimum area requirements. (Prior code
§ 12.04.010)
12.04.020 Residential district specifications.
   All curbs in residential districts shall be constructed in accordance with
city specifications and all sidewalks in residential districts shall be four
and one-half feet from the base of the curb to the back of the sidewalk and
poured integrally, unless the new sidewalk to be so constructed is to be
determined by resolution of the council upon application by the owner, lessee
or agent desiring to construct said sidewalk or by the director of public works
of the city. (Prior code § 12.04.020)
12.04.030 Commercial district specifications.
   All curbs in commercial districts are to be constructed in accordance with
city specifications and all sidewalks in commercial districts shall be a width
of ten feet from the face of the curb to the back of the sidewalk if the
existing sidewalk in the block in which said new sidewalk is to be constructed
is of the same width; if the existing sidewalk in the block in which the new
sidewalk is to be constructed is not of a ten foot width, then the new sidewalk
to be constructed will be of the same width as the existing sidewalk already in
place in the block. (Prior code § 12.04.030)
12.04.040 Exclusions.
   Notwithstanding the requirements specified in Sections
12.04.020 and
12.04.030, no owner, lessee or agent constructing or arranging for the
construction of a building or dwelling or moving of a building or dwelling upon
a lot in a residential district, other than a new subdivision, shall be
required to construct or cause to be constructed concrete curbs, gutters and
sidewalks, unless the city has provided for the establishment of grades in
accordance with appropriate engineering specifications at the time of such
construction. (Prior code § 12.04.035)
12.04.050 Denial of certificate of occupancy.
   The director of public works of the city shall deny final public utility
connections to any building or dwelling in the certificate of occupancy until
the concrete curbs, gutters or sidewalks exist or are constructed or their
construction is guaranteed to the satisfaction of the council. (Prior code §
12.04.040)
12.04.060 Violation—Penalty.
   If any person, firm or corporation violates any provision of this chapter,
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to
exceed six months or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Prior code §
12.04.050)
Chapter 12.06 IN-LIEU FEE FOR UNDERGROUNDING OF UTILITY TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
Article I. Purpose and Definitions
12.06.000 Purpose of chapter.
   The purpose of the utility undergrounding fee program established in this
chapter is to implement the urban design policies of the general plan for the
city of Pismo Beach, by requiring new development to contribute to a fund which
shall be used solely for the conversion of overhead utility facilities to
underground facilities. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.010 Designated street—Definition.
   For the purposes of this chapter, "designated street" means a street which,
on the date of the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, had
overhead utility facilities on either side of the street. (Ord. 08-04 § 1
(part), 2008)
12.06.020 Development project—Definition.
   For the purposes of this chapter, "development project" shall include:
   A.   Any residential subdivision for which a parcel map or subdivision map
is required under Title 16 of the municipal code; or
   B.   Any project for which a development permit is required pursuant to this
code, if any portion of the property subject to such parcel map, subdivision
map or development permit is located adjacent to a designated street, as
defined in Section
12.06.010. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.030 Increased intensity of use—Definition.
   For the purposes of this chapter, an "increase in intensity of use" means
the percentage increase of one of the following factors, whichever is greatest,
when comparing a proposed development with the preexisting legally established
development on the subject site:
   A.   Square footage of building area and/or outdoor activity area, as
applicable;
   B.   Number of off-street parking spaces as required under Title 17 of this
code; or
   C.   Traffic generation calculated using the trip generation rates in "Trip
Generation Rates," published by the city of Pismo Beach department of public
works, as such publication may be subsequently amended. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part),
2008)
12.06.040 Minor projects—Definition.
   For the purposes of this chapter, "minor projects" means those development
projects which are so small or of such a type that they cannot be said to
contribute, in even an incremental or cumulative fashion, to the increased
visual clutter which this chapter is intended to mitigate. The following are
examples of minor projects:
   A.   Addition of an automated teller machine;
   B.   Tree removal;
   C.   Installation of temporary office or security trailers or temporary
corporation yards during construction of a project nearby or on site;
   D.   Facade improvements with no increase in square footage;
   E.   Tenant improvements to an existing building which either:
   1.   Do not increase the square footage of the existing building envelope,
or
   2.   Do not require installation of increased-capacity utility facilities;
   F.   Improvements of an existing parking lot (e.g., resurfacing, restriping
or landscaping);
   G.   Replacement of underground storage tanks; or
   H.   Any other development project determined by the city's approving body
at the time of project approval to come within the meaning of this section.
(Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.050 Overhead utility facilities—Definition.
   For the purposes of this chapter, "overhead utility facilities" means above-
ground wires, poles, and associated facilities supplying electric,
communication, or similar services. "Wires" means any cabling used for the
transmission of electric, communication or similar services, and "poles" means
support structures of whatever description used to maintain wires above the
ground. Facilities used for the transmission of electric energy at nominal
voltages of thirty-four thousand five hundred volts or more shall be exempt
from the provisions of the chapter. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
Article II. Fee Program
12.06.100 Fee required.
   Unless otherwise exempt under the provisions of this chapter, approval of
any development project in the city shall be subject to a condition for the
payment of a utility undergrounding fee as set forth in the schedule of fees
established by council resolution. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.110 Time for payment.
   The utility undergrounding fee shall be paid to the city in full prior to
recordation of the parcel or final map for projects described in Section
12.06.020 A or issuance of a department of public works clearance for projects
described in Section
12.06.020 B. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.120 Underground utility fund—Use of fees.
   A.   All fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
placed in the underground utility fund.
   B.   All fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
used solely for the conversion of overhead utility facilities to underground
facilities on designated streets within the city. The fees may be used for any
and all of the following purposes:
   1.   Payment to utility companies for the cost of replacement of their
existing overhead utility facilities with underground facilities in the public
right-of-way, in accordance with PUC Rules No. 20 or Tariff Schedule P.U.C. No.
A2 Rule No. 32;
   2.   City costs to convert city overhead utility facilities to underground
facilities;
   3.   Contributions to underground utility districts that are established on
designated streets;
   4.   Payment of city expenses for staff, equipment, supplies and overhead
associated with the establishment and administration of undergrounding projects
eligible for funding under this chapter;
   5.   Payment to utility companies in connection with provision of
underground service laterals to properties in designated underground utility
districts, including a maximum of one hundred feet of electric service
trenching and underground conductor (as measured from property line) as well as
backfill, paving, and conduit.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to affect the amount of
reimbursement which would otherwise be paid to utilities, under applicable
laws, rules, regulations, and tariffs, for undergrounding of utilities.
   D.   Fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
allocated according to the priorities set forth in Policy D-37 of the general
plan. The collection of fees from a particular development project pursuant to
this chapter shall not obligate the city to install underground utilities
adjacent to such project until such time as the city council determines it is
appropriate to construct such improvements under Policy D-37 of the general
plan. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.130 Amount of fee.
   The base undergrounding utility fee shall be in an amount as set forth in
the schedule of fees established by council resolution. The fee shall be based
on an amount per linear foot of the project site frontage adjacent to a
designated street or streets. A development project subject to this chapter
shall be required to pay an undergrounding utility fee in the amount specified
as follows:
 
Type of Project                                     Percentage of Base Fee   
New development or expansion or modification of
existing use resulting in fifty percent or greater    100
increase in intensity of use
Expansion or modification of existing use resulting
in increased intensity of use by at least twenty-five 50
percent, but less than fifty percent
Expansion or modification of existing use resulting
in increased intensity of use by more than five       25
percent, but less than twenty-five percent
Expansion or modification of existing use resulting
in increased intensity of use by less than five       10
percent
 
(Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.140 Exemptions.
   The following development projects are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   A.   Projects obligated by any other provision of this code to construct
undergrounded utilities;
   B.   Projects for which street frontage is on a street or streets within an
underground utility district established prior to January 1, 2008;
   C.   Projects on a site for which a total of one hundred percent of the base
fee has been paid as satisfaction of a condition or conditions imposed upon
prior development on that site;
   D.   Minor projects as defined in Section
12.06.040;
   E.   Renewals of existing conditional use permits;
   F.   Projects for which the director of community development determines
underground installation of overhead utility facilities would be unreasonable
or impractical due to physical constraints such as topography or soil
conditions.
   G.   Projects on existing single family residential lots where building
permits are required for building remodels, additions or reconstruction. (Ord.
O-2010-006, 2010: Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.145 Subdivision of residential lands.
   At the discretion of the city manager, city engineer and director of
community development, a subdivision of land zoned for residential purposes may
be exempted from the requirements of this chapter if the land is being divided
into parcels larger than that appropriate for residential lots, and further
subdivision of the property will be required prior to development of the land
for residential purposes. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.150 Undergrounding required—New streets.
   All overhead utility facilities within newly constructed public streets
shall be placed underground. No utility undergrounding fee shall be required
for any frontage of a development project which is adjacent to a street which
will be improved, including utility undergrounding, as a condition of such
project. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.160 Credits and limitations on fee.
   A.   When a project on property previously subject to a fee or fees for
utility undergrounding is subject to a new fee under this chapter, the amount
of the fee due shall be adjusted if necessary so that the total amount of fees
to which the property has been subject does not exceed one hundred percent of
the current base fee as set forth in the schedule of fees established by
council resolution.
   B.   If land for which a utility undergrounding fee has been paid becomes
part of an improvement district for which improvements include the
undergrounding of utilities adjacent to such land, such land shall receive a
credit towards any assessment imposed thereon in an amount equal to the amount
of the utility undergrounding fee paid prior to establishment of the
improvement district. Funds in the amount of such credit shall be transferred
from the utility undergrounding fund to the appropriate improvement district
fund. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.170 Refunds.
   Utility undergrounding fees paid to the city pursuant to this chapter may be
refunded in whole or in part, upon a determination by the director of public
works that:
   A.   The fee or a portion thereof was collected in error;
   B.   The condition of development approval requiring payment of the fee is
amended after payment of the fee to provide that the fee is not required or the
amount thereof is reduced; or
   C.   Approval of the development project expires or is revoked, and no
development thereunder has commenced prior to said expiration or revocation.
(Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.180 Election to underground utilities as a part of project.
   At the discretion of the director of community development, approval of a
development project may be conditioned upon actual undergrounding of overhead
utility facilities on the street or streets adjacent to the project, rather
than payment of fees pursuant to this chapter, if:
   A.   The project applicant alone or together with owners of adjacent
properties, has committed to establishment of a Rule 20B/Tariff Schedule Cal.
P.U.C. No. A2, Rule No. 32, A.2 underground utility district which will cause
undergrounding of all overhead utilities facilities in the street or streets
adjacent to the project site; or
   B.   The project applicant has requested to undertake actual undergrounding
of all overhead utility facilities in the street or streets adjacent to the
project site. (Ord. 08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.190 Installment payment of utility undergrounding fee.
   A.   Any person or nonprofit organization, for which full payment in one
lump sum of the utility undergrounding fee required by this chapter would cause
significant financial hardship, may apply to the city council for permission to
pay the utility undergrounding fee in installment payments.
   B.   Such hardship application must be in writing and submitted to the
director of public works within thirty calendar days after approval of the
development permit containing the condition for payment of the utility
undergrounding fee. The city council, in its sole discretion, may extend the
thirty-day period.
   C.   Applications for hardship installment payments shall be accompanied by
evidence of the applicant's nonprofit status; proof of the applicant's
ownership of the project site; a written statement of facts demonstrating the
significant financial hardship to the applicant from payment of the utility
undergrounding fee in a lump sum; and a written commitment by the applicant to
repay the obligation.
   D.   Upon receipt of a written application to pay the utility undergrounding
fee in installments, the director of public works shall schedule a hearing on
the request before the city council. The department of public works shall give
no less than five days' written notice of the time, date and place of the
hearing to the applicant.
   E.   After the hearing, if the council, in its sole discretion, finds that
payment of the utility undergrounding fee in one lump sum would cause the
applicant a significant financial hardship, the council may approve an
agreement with the applicant for installment payments. The form of such
agreement shall be approved by the city attorney.
   F.   The city council may deny any application for installment payments for
any reason including, but not limited to, the fact that the city has not
budgeted and appropriated sufficient funds for the utility undergrounding
planned for the fiscal year in which an application is submitted.
   G.   For the purpose of this section, the term "nonprofit organization"
means an organization which is tax exempt under Sections 501(c) and (d) of the
federal Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, but which is not an
organization formed or existing primarily for political purposes. (Ord. 08-04
§ 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.200 Installment payment agreement.
   A.   Any grant of an application for installment payments shall contain a
condition that the applicant enter into an installment payment agreement with
the city.
   B.   Installment payment agreements shall, at a minimum, contain the
following terms and conditions:
   1.   The utility undergrounding fee shall be paid in installments on at
least an annual basis.
   2.   The first installment shall be in the amount of twenty percent of the
total utility undergrounding fee and shall be paid at the time the applicant
executes the agreement. The remaining installment payments shall include
interest at the rate determined by the city council to be in the public
interest.
   3.   The agreement shall have a maximum term of ten years for utility
undergrounding fee amounts up to fifty thousand dollars, with up to one
additional year for each additional five thousand dollars up to a maximum term
of fifteen years.
   4.   The unpaid balance, including interest, shall constitute a lien on the
property burdened by the utility undergrounding fee.
   5.   In the event that the applicant assigns, conveys, exchanges or
otherwise transfers all or any part of applicant's interest in the property
subject to the lien, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, all of the remaining
unpaid balance including interest shall be due and payable prior to or
simultaneous with such assignment, conveyance, exchange or other transfer.
   C.   No more than one installment agreement entered into pursuant to this
section shall be in effect at any time for any one parcel of property. (Ord.
08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
12.06.210 Lien.
   The city clerk shall record the installment payment agreement with the San
Luis Obispo County Recorder. The installment payment agreement shall constitute
a lien on the property burdened by the utility undergrounding requirement until
such time as all installment payments are paid in full by the applicant. (Ord.
08-04 § 1 (part), 2008)
Chapter 12.08 ADVERTISING DISPLAYS ADJACENT TO FREEWAYS
12.08.010 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms, "advertising structure,"
"signs," advertising display," and "freeway" shall be defined as specifically
set forth and defined in Division 3, Chapter 2, Article 1 of the Business and
Professional Code of the state, and the same are adopted in this section by
reference. (Prior code § 12.12.010)
12.08.020 Prohibition.
   No advertising display shall be placed or maintained on property adjacent to
a section of freeway which has been or hereafter may be landscaped as defined
in Section
12.08.010 by reference if the advertising display is designed to be viewed
primarily by persons traveling on such landscape section of a freeway. (Prior
code § 12.12.020)
12.08.030 Removal required.
   Any advertising structure or sign which is now, or hereafter shall be in
violation of the provisions of Section
12.08.020, shall be removed within one year from the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, or within one year from the date when the
project for the landscaping of the particular section or sections of a freeway
shall have been completed or accepted, and the character of said section or
sections shall have been changed from a freeway to a landscaped freeway,
whichever is later. (Prior code § 12.12.030)
12.08.040 Exceptions.
   The provisions of Section
12.08.020 shall not apply to any advertising structure or sign if the same is
used exclusively as follows:
   A.   To advertise the sale or lease of the property upon which such
advertising display is placed;
   B.   To designate the name of the owner or occupant of the premises upon
which such advertising display is placed, or to identify such premises;
   C.   To advertise goods manufactured, produced or services rendered, on the
property upon which such advertising display is placed. (Prior code §
12.12.040)
12.08.050 Violation—Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not to exceed six months or by both such
fine and imprisonment. (Prior code § 12.12.050)
Chapter 12.10
NEWSRACKS
12.10.010 Purpose.
   This chapter establishes a permitting process, and sets standards to
regulate design, placement, installation, or maintenance of newsracks in the
city. This chapter sets regulations to ensure enforcement of these standards,
and collection and payment of appropriate fees. Permits are required and may be
issued for newsrack spaces in city-owned newsracks, or for privately owned
newsracks. In its enactment of the ordinance to add this chapter to the
Municipal Code, the City Council approved specific findings of fact related to
the need, purpose and scope of this chapter. Those findings adopted by the City
Council are incorporated by reference as though each was set forth in fully in
this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-001 § 2, 2023: Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.020 Definitions.
   For this chapter, the following words are defined as follows:
   A.   "Abandoned newsrack or newsrack space" is any newsrack or newsrack
space which remains empty for thirty calendar days or more, except that a
newsrack remaining empty due to labor strike or any temporary and extraordinary
interruption of distribution or publication by the newspaper or other
publication sold or distributed from that newsrack or newsrack space shall not
be deemed abandoned.
   B.   "City Manager" means the City Manager or designee.
   C.   "Highway" means all area dedicated to public use for public street
purposes and includes, but is not limited to, roadways, parkways, parking lots,
alleys, and sidewalks.
   D.   "Newsrack(s)" means any self-service, coin-operated, or credit card-
activated box, container, storage unit, kiosk, or other dispenser installed,
used, or maintained for the sale or distribution of newspapers, news
periodicals, magazines, or other news or informational publications.
   E.   "Newsrack space" means the area within a newsrack accessed by one or
more publications placed by publishers or distributors, and intended for
retrieval by customers or members of the public.
   F.   "Full newsrack space" means space to accommodate a full-size
publication such as a complete newspaper or publications at minimum eleven by
eleven inches in size.
   G.   "Half newsrack space" means space to accommodate publications less than
full size, such as a magazine or publications smaller than eleven by eleven
inches in size.
   H.   "Parkway" means that area between the edge of the roadway and the
adjacent property line, excluding that area occupied by the sidewalks. Parkway
shall also include any area within a roadway that is not open to vehicular
travel.
   I.   "Roadway" means that portion of the public right-of-way improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   J.   "Sidewalk" means any surface provided for the exclusive use of
pedestrians.
(Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.030 Permit–required.
   A.   No person shall place, install, maintain, operate, or cause to be
placed, installed, maintained, or operated a newsrack on, within, or projecting
into a public right-of-way or public property, or use or place any material,
including but not limited to publications, into a city-owned newsrack space,
without first securing a permit from the city pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   An application for a permit required by this chapter shall be made at
least twenty (20) business days prior to the placement of any newsrack or any
material or publication in a city-owned newsrack space.
(Ord. O-2023-001 § 3, 2023: Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.040 Permit application.
   A.   Applications for permits for newsrack(s) or city-owned newsrack space
(s) shall be made to the City Manager.
   B.   Applications for newsrack(s) to be placed, installed, maintained, and
operated by the applicant shall include the following:
   1.   The name, business name, address, and telephone number of the
applicant;
   2.   The name, address, and telephone number of a responsible person whom
the city may notify or contact at any time concerning the applicant's newsrack;
   3.   A description, including a map and/or elevation diagram as appropriate,
of the requested location(s) for the newsrack(s);
   4.   Specifications for the size, weight, dimensions, and appearance of the
requested newsrack(s) and how the newsrack(s) will be secured;
   5.   The number of full newsrack spaces and half newsrack spaces in the
newsrack.
   C.   Applications for a newsrack space in a city-owned newsrack shall
include the following.
   1.   The name, business name, address, and telephone number of the
applicant;
   2.   The name, address, and telephone number of a responsible person whom
the city may notify or contact at any time concerning the applicant's newsrack
space;
   3.   The location of the existing newsrack into which the applicant wishes
to locate;
   4.   Whether the requested newsrack space is a full newsrack space or half
newsrack space;
   5.   Whether the requested newsrack space will include a payment mechanism.
   D.   There shall be an annual permit application fee for each newsrack and
city-owned newsrack space in accordance with the master fee schedule adopted by
the City Council. The annual permit application fee shall be set for each
separate publication or other material to be placed in a newsrack space in a
city-owned newsrack; a separate fee shall apply to each city-owned newsrack
space, per full newsrack space and per half newsrack space. The fee for a
newsrack permitted under this chapter shall be calculated by the number and
type of newsrack spaces available in the newsrack.
(Ord. O-2023-001 § 4, 2023: Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.050 Permit issuance–renewal.
   A.   Upon determination that an application meets the requirements of this
chapter, the City Manager shall issue a permit for either (1) the placement of
a publication or other material within a newsrack space in a city-owned
newsrack, or the (2) placement, installation, operation, and maintenance of a
newsrack by the applicant. Each permit issued shall be deemed to incorporate as
a condition to the permitted activity, the requirement of the permittee to
comply with all the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Permits shall be limited and remain valid for one (1) year; annual
renewal shall require a separate application, fee, and permit approval.
   C.   Permits shall not be transferrable from one location to another;
permits shall not be assignable from one person or entity to another.
(Ord. O-2023-001 § 5, 2023: Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.060 Identification on newsrack required.
   Each permittee shall affix to, or permanently display, in plain view, upon
each newsrack or newsrack space a permit sticker provided by the city to
identify the permitted use of the newsrack space. Newsracks placed, installed,
or maintained without a permit sticker will be removed by the city in
accordance with this chapter at the sole cost of the permittee, the newsrack
installer, or the owner of the newsrack.
(Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.070 Liability indemnification.
   Each person owning, installing, operating, maintaining, or using a newsrack
or newsrack space (including a city-owned newsrack space) upon or within the
public property, rights-of-way, or public easements adjacent to streets of this
city, as a condition to such installation, operation, or use shall indemnify
and hold harmless the city, its officers and employees from any loss,
liability, damage, or cost sustained by any person or property, arising from
the ownership, installation, operation, maintenance, or use of the newsrack or
newsrack space.
(Ord. O-2023-001 § 6, 2023: Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.080 Newsracks requirements.
   A.   Requirements for newsracks not owned by the city.
   1.   Placement of newsracks.
   a.   Each newsrack at a given location shall be part of a multi-unit modular
configuration subject to standards set forth in this chapter. Each newsrack
shall be located so as to maximize the public convenience, health, safety, and
welfare, both as to accessibility to the newsracks and the use of the public
right-of-way as a thoroughfare, and the aesthetic appearance of the area;
   b.   No newsrack shall be installed, used, or maintained in the public
right-of-way in residential districts within the city;
   c.   Newsracks shall be placed adjacent to the wall of a building or near a
curb. Newsracks placed adjacent to the wall of a building shall be parallel to
such wall and not more than six (6) inches from the wall. Newsracks placed near
a curb shall be placed not less than eighteen (18) inches and no more than
twenty-four (24) inches from the edge of the curb. The newsrack shall face the
sidewalk. The City Manager may approve an exception to these locations for
public access purposes;
   d.   No newsrack shall be placed, installed, used, or maintained:
   i.   Opposite another newsrack;
   ii.   Within five (5) feet of any marked or unmarked crosswalk;
   iii.   Within five (5) feet of any fire hydrant or other emergency facility;
   iv.   Within five (5) feet of any driveway;
   v.   Within five feet (5) of any bus bench or sign marking a designated bus
stop;
   vi.   At any location whereby the clear space for the passage of pedestrians
is reduced to less than five feet;
   vii.   Within two (2) feet of any area improved with lawn, flowers, shrubs,
or trees or within two (2) feet of any display window of any building abutting
the sidewalk or parkway or in such manner as to impede or interfere with the
reasonable use of such window for display purposes;
   viii.   At any location, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works,
where the newsrack causes, creates, or constitutes a traffic hazard;
   ix.   At any location, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, where
the newsrack unreasonably obstructs or interferes with access to or the use and
enjoyment of abutting property;
   x.   Where the newsrack will endanger persons or property;
   xi.   Where, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, the newsrack
will unreasonably interfere with or obstruct the flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or access to parked vehicles on a highway; or
   xii.   In any way that is contrary to the City of Pismo Beach Engineering
Standards.
   e.   Placement of newsracks on the Pier and on lateral piers, boardwalks and
promenades along the beach is prohibited because such placement would
constitute an unreasonable interference to the flow of pedestrians and
emergency response vehicles in an area where pedestrian and emergency vehicle
access is limited to the termini of these structures and limited-access stairs
to the beach and where there is unsheltered exposure to wind and weather and
therefore constitutes a significant risk to the health and safety of the
public.
   2.   Standards. Each newsrack which in whole or in part rests upon, in, or
over any sidewalk or parkway shall comply with the following standards:
   a.   Each newsrack installed, used, or maintained on a public sidewalk or
parkway, or portion thereof, shall be of the modular newsrack type specified by
the Director of Public Works. Modular newsrack means a newsrack that is
designed with at least two (2) newsrack spaces to accommodate the display,
sale, or distribution of multiple newspapers or other written matter to the
general public.
   b.   No newsrack shall exceed five (5) feet in height, three (3) feet in
width, and three (3) feet in depth.
   c.   No newsrack shall be chained, bolted, or otherwise attached to any
property not owned by the owner of the newsrack or to any permanently fixed
object, including public signs, benches, fire hydrants, or other facilities in
the right-of-way. Newsracks may only be attached to private property with the
prior written permission of the owner of the private property.
   d.   No newsrack, or groups of attached newsracks allowed under this
section, shall weigh, in the aggregate, in excess of five hundred (500) pounds
when empty.
   e.   No newsrack shall be used for advertising signs or publicity purposes
other than to state the name of the newspaper or periodical being sold and the
price of such periodical. No exterior signs, stickers, or advertising shall be
permitted, other than the available front clear portion of the newsrack space.
   f.   Each newsrack shall be designed and constructed so that wind action
will not cause papers to be blown from the rack.
   3.   Installation and maintenance.
   a.   Stands for newsracks shall be either a supporting structure,
constructed by the city, or a multi-unit pedestal. Such pedestal shall not
exceed nineteen (19) inches in height.
   b.   Newsracks shall be painted a color designated by the City Manager.
   c.   Each newsrack and newsrack space shall be maintained by the permittee
in a clean and neat condition, free of graffiti, dirt, stickers, grease, and
corrosion, and in good repair at all times. No newsrack or newsrack space shall
be allowed to be chipped, faded, or cracked or contain broken or cracked
plastic, glass, or structural parts. Adhesive labels, other than city-issued
markers, or adhesive labels related to publications in the newsrack or newsrack
space, shall not be displayed on newsracks.
   d.   Each permittee is responsible for placement of publications or other
materials within newsracks. All work undertaken shall be the sole
responsibility of the permit holder. Damage resulting from the installation of
the material into the newsrack shall be reported to the city immediately and
repaired immediately per city approval, at the expense of the permittee.
Failure to make required repairs may result in city staff undertaking efforts
to make such repairs. The cost of repairs shall be chargeable as a civil debt
to the permit holder, owner, or operator of the newsrack, and may be collected
by the city in the same manner as it collects any other civil debt or
obligation.
   e.   The installation of newsracks shall meet the same design concerns as
identified for other encroachments in Section
12.32.130 of this Code.
   B.   Requirements for newsrack spaces in city-owned newsracks.
   1.   Each newsrack space shall be maintained by the permittee in a clean and
neat condition, free of graffiti, dirt, stickers, grease, and corrosion, and in
good repair at all times. Adhesive labels, other than city-issued markers, or
adhesive labels related to publications in the newsrack or newsrack space,
shall not be displayed on newsracks.
   2.   Each permittee is responsible for placement of publications or other
materials within the permitted newsrack space. All work undertaken shall be the
sole responsibility of the permit holder, including installation and
maintenance of any payment mechanism desired by the permit holder. Damage
resulting to the newsrack space, other than usual wear and tear, shall be
reported to the city immediately and repaired immediately per city approval, at
the expense of the permittee. Failure to make required repairs may result in
city staff undertaking efforts to make such repairs. The cost of repairs shall
be chargeable as a civil debt to the permit holder, owner, or operator of the
newsrack, and may be collected by the city in the same manner as it collects
any other civil debt or obligation.
   C.   Newsrack location limits. In general, the number of newsracks at a
particular corner, intersection, or other location shall not exceed ten full
newsrack spaces, including any city-owned newsracks. Any exception to this
limit resulting in an increase in the number of authorized newsrack spaces at
any particular location shall be determined by the City Manager subject to the
following standards:
   1.   Whether sufficient clear space for the safe passage of pedestrians
requiring amendment of the preceding limitation of five (5) feet;
   2.   Whether the width of the sidewalk prohibits the installation of
newsracks;
   3.   Whether density of pedestrian traffic or vehicular traffic, or the need
to access parked vehicles, necessitates fewer newsracks than the number
requested. It is the purpose of this section to provide maximum public access
to all publications of general interest and circulation.
(Ord. O-2023-001 § 7, 2023: Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.090 Use of newsracks required.
   No person shall leave on public property for distribution or sale any
newspaper, news periodical, similar publication, or other material unless such
items are placed in a newsrack constructed, placed, and maintained in
accordance with this chapter. Any newsrack deemed abandoned by the City Manager
shall be subject to removal and destruction pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.100 Abandoned newsrack, newsrack space.
   A.   Abandoned newsracks may be removed by the city and may be disposed.
Before any newsrack is removed, the permittee, owner, or other person
responsible for installation or maintenance of the newsrack shall be given
written notice that the newsrack is suspected of being abandoned. If an
abandoned newsrack is not claimed by the person responsible for that newsrack
within thirty business days of receipt of notice of suspected abandonment, the
city may remove the abandoned newsrack. No newsrack shall be removed if, before
removal, the permittee, owner, or other person responsible for its installation
or maintenance informs the city the newsrack has not been abandoned and
promptly stocks and maintains the subject newsrack. If there is no permittee or
the owner or person responsible for the installation, or maintenance of the
newsrack is not known, the city shall take reasonable steps to identify the
owner or person responsible for the installation or maintenance of the newsrack
that is suspected to be abandoned and provide such notices and time for
compliance provided by this section.
   B.   Upon removal of any abandoned newsrack, the permittee, owner, or other
person responsible for its installation or maintenance shall promptly be
notified and given thirty business days in which to request a hearing pursuant
to
Chapter 1.24 of this Code.
   C.   Upon failure of these persons to claim such newsrack and pay the
expenses of removal and storage within thirty calendar days after such removal,
the newsrack is deemed unclaimed property in possession of the city and may be
disposed of by any means allowed by law.
(Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.110 Removal/hearing.
   A.   Each newsrack installed or maintained in violation of this chapter may
be seized and removed. Prior to any newsrack being seized, the city shall issue
a notice of violation to the permittee, owner, or other person responsible for
installation or maintenance of the newsrack and give the permittee, owner, or
other person responsible for installation or maintenance of the newsrack five
calendar days in which to remedy the violation or to request a hearing to
contest the removal. If there is no permittee or the owner or person
responsible for the installation or maintenance of the newsrack is not known,
the city shall take reasonable steps to identify the owner or person
responsible for the installation or maintenance of the newsrack that is
installed or maintained in violation of this chapter and provide a notice of
violation and five calendar days in which to remedy the violation or request a
hearing to contest removal of the newsrack. If the violation is not remedied or
a hearing is not requested within five calendar days of receipt of the notice
of violation, the city may seize and remove the newsrack that is the subject of
the notice of violation.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if a newsrack
installed or maintained in violation of this chapter is creating a hazard for
pedestrians or motor vehicles or is otherwise interfering with the safe use of
the highway, the city may immediately remove such newsrack. If a newsrack is so
removed, the city shall provide a notice of violation and removal to the
permittee or, if no permittee, the owner or other person responsible for the
installation and maintenance of the newsrack promptly after such removal.
   C.   A person receiving a notice of violation or responsible for a newsrack
that has been seized and/or removed may request an appeal of the notice of
violation and/or removal pursuant to
Chapter 1.24 of this Code. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall have
authority to determine all questions raised by such appeal; provided, however,
that no such determination shall conflict with any substantive provision of
this chapter.
   D.   The cost of removal and/or storage by the city of any newsrack
publications subject to this chapter shall be chargeable as a civil debt to the
owner thereof and may be collected by the city in the same manner as it
collects any other civil debt or obligation. In addition, the newsrack space
publications in question shall be deemed to be unclaimed property in possession
of the city and may be disposed of by any means allowed by law.
(Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.120 Nuisance/cumulative remedies.
   A.   The placement, installation, operation, maintenance, or use of any
newsrack or newsrack space in violation of this chapter shall be, and the same
is declared to be, a public nuisance. This chapter shall not be deemed a
limitation upon any other remedies of the city authorized by law with respect
to the matter herein specified.
   B.   In addition to any and all remedies set forth herein in connection with
violations of this chapter, any violation of this chapter shall be punishable
pursuant to
Chapter 1.24 of this Code.
(Ord. O-2023-001 § 8, 2023: Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
12.10.130 Compliance for already placed newsracks.
   Owners and persons responsible for installation and maintenance of newsracks
located within the city on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter shall have ninety days from said date to comply with the provisions of
this chapter; thereafter, any newsrack space not in compliance shall be subject
to removal by the City Manager as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. O-2021-005 § 4 (part), 2021)
Chapter 12.12 TREES
12.12.010 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense will include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   "City" means the city of Pismo Beach.
   "Director" means the director of public works of the city.
   "Maintained" or "maintenance" when used in reference to trees means and
includes cutting, trimming, pruning, spraying, fertilizing, irrigating,
bracing, spraying for disease or injury or any other similar acts which promote
the life, growth, health or beauty of trees.
   "Owners" means the legal owners of the real property fronting upon the
streets in the city.
   "Parkway" means all land lying between the traveled roadway as determined by
the director of public works, and the property boundaries abutting on all
public streets.
   "Person" means any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
   "Private place" means and includes any portion of private property.
   "Private tree" means and includes any tree or shrub on private property.
   "Public areas" means and includes parks, playgrounds, areas around public
buildings and all other areas under the supervision and maintenance of the
city.
   "Public places" means and includes streets, public areas and parkways as
defined in this section.
   "Street" means and includes all public right-of-way lying between the
boundaries of private property abutting all public streets, alleys and walks.
   Trees, Approved. "Approved trees" means and includes all approved varieties
of trees as specified in the city "street tree list," as adopted from time to
time by the council by resolution. (Ord. 94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.020 General requirements.
   The director of public works or an authorized representative may inspect any
tree, upon any street, park, playground, boulevard, alley or public place of
the city to determine whether the same or any portion thereof is in such
condition as to constitute a hazard or an impediment to the progress or vision
of anyone traveling on any street, park, playground, boulevard, alley or public
place. The director is authorized to trim or remove any tree determined to
constitute a hazard. (Ord. 94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.030 Permits required—Planting, maintenance or removal.
   A.   Planting for Existing Development. No person shall plant or set out any
tree in a public place without first filing a planting application and securing
an encroachment permit from the director of public works.
   1.   Application Data. The application required shall indicate the number of
trees to be planted or set out; the location, grade and variety of each tree;
the method of planting including the supplying of suitable soil; and such other
information as the director shall find reasonably necessary to make a fair
determination of whether a permit shall be issued hereunder.
   2.   Standards of Issuance. The director shall issue the planting permit
provided herein when the proposed plantings conform as to species and location
to the requirements as specified in the city's approved "street tree list."
   B.   Planting for New Development.
   1.   Application Data. Upon receipt of a tentative map application for a
subdivision, a permit application for a commercial building or other structure
or improvement or an application for a permit to plant or set in excess of ten
trees, the applicant shall be required to submit a detailed declaration of
intentions in duplicate, in the form of a planting plan map and a written
statement. All planting plan maps shall accurately show:
   a.   The proposed street with lots adjacent thereto together with pavement,
curb, gutter, parking strip and sidewalk areas to a definite indicated scale;
   b.   The variety of each and every tree proposed to be planted and those
already existing within the proposed street lines either indicated on the plans
or referenced with a number to key list;
   c.   The proposed location of each and every proposed tree together with the
location of each existing tree within the proposed street line in scaled
relation to the other features of the plan;
   d.   The distance between trees in any one row in feet;
   e.   The nature of the soil and the planting space to a depth of three feet
in all existing and proposed surface or subsoil drainage system.
   2.   Standards of Issuance. Once the application is received by the planning
division, the planting plan shall be referred to the parks, recreation and
beautification commission for review and recommendation to the planning
commission. The planning commission shall review the plan and provide final
approval for the tree plan to be implemented.
   C.   Maintenance or Removal. No person shall deface, destroy, burn or remove
trees in public places without first filing an application and securing an
encroachment permit from the director of public works, except that ordinary
maintenance of trees in place in parkways shall not require such a permit.
   1.   Application Data. The application for the permit shall indicate the
number and kind of trees to be trimmed, sprayed, cut, defaced, destroyed,
burned or removed; the kind of treatment to be administered; the kind and
conditions of nearest trees upon the adjoining property; and such other
information as the director shall find reasonably necessary for a fair
determination of whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
   2.   Standards of Issuance. The director shall issue the permit provided
herein when he finds that the desired action or treatment is necessary or
appropriate and that the proposed method of treatment is acceptable. If upon
determination of the director, a tree has value as an historical object, the
director may deny the permit on such basis. (Ord. 94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.040 Planting, trimming and care of trees.
   A.   Standards for Planting, Trimming and Care of Trees in Public Places and
Parkways.
   1.   Regulations for Planting in Public Places. Work completed under a
permit governed by this chapter shall be performed in strict accordance with
the terms thereof and with the following regulations established for the
planting, trimming and care of trees in public places and parkways:
   a.   All trees shall be of a mature size that normally are packaged in
twenty-four-inch boxes. A larger size, thirty-six-inch or forty-eight-inch box
may be required for some installations. These trees shall be of a size not less
than one and one-half inch in trunk diameter at a height one foot above ground
and of a height no less than eight feet above ground.
   b.   All trees shall be a quality acceptable to the director and shall be
approved prior to planting.
   c.   No tree shall be placed within twenty-five feet of any street
intersection or within five feet of any street light fixture, driveway,
walkway, fire hydrant, street sign, utility box or enclosure, sewer or water
line or other city facility so as to cause a traffic or other public safety
hazard.
   d.   Trees shall be planted not more than sixty feet nor less than thirty
feet apart except where a special permit is obtained from the director. There
shall be, at a minimum, one tree per frontage parcel.
   e.   No tree shall be planted where the soil is poor to insure the growth of
such tree unless the owner excavates a suitable hole of not less than twenty-
seven cubic feet and replaces the material removed with suitable loam or soil
that is compatible to the tree.
   f.   No tree shall be planted on any street except of the variety as
specified in the city's "street tree list" for that street.
   g.   All street tree planting shall be accomplished in strict accordance
with the city's "street tree planting standards."
   h.   All costs related to planting trees in any new subdivision shall be
paid for by the subdivider or developer, including cost of trees, planting
material, installation and irrigation.
   i.   The city council may require any subdivider to post a performance bond
either through a bond, a certificate of deposit or cash deposit to guarantee
proper tree planting along the parkways of any subdivision before approval of
any final subdivision map.
   j.   For development permits in residential development zones, new trees
planted on the proposal site shall be of a type that will not exceed twenty-
five feet in height at maturity as called out in Sunset New Western Gardening
Book.
   k.   In felling trees, the same must be removed with the root stump grubbed
out when so required by the director and any hole remaining shall be filled to
ground level with soil comparable or compatible with the surrounding soil.
   l.   All limb cuts above two inches in diameter must be waterproofed. (Ord.
94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.050 Maintenance of parkways.
   Owners of private property shall be responsible for watering trees, plants,
grass, weed control, and litter removal in parkways immediately adjacent to the
private property. (Ord. 94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.060 Abuse or mutilation of trees.
   In any parkway or any other public area no person shall:
   A.   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or injure the bark,
pick the flowers or seeds of any tree; B. Attach any rope, wire, board or other
constricting device to any tree, unless such rope, wire, or constructive device
is found to be necessary to guide, or support such tree and guide in its proper
growth;
   C.   Dig around or otherwise disturb the root system of the tree;
   D.   Cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to come in contact
with any tree or allow any gaseous, liquid or solid substance which is harmful
to such tree to come in contact with it. (Ord. 94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.070 Protection of trees.
   During the erection, repair, alteration or removal of any building, house or
structure in the city, any person, firm or corporation in charge of such work
shall protect any tree in any public place within the city in the vicinity of
such building or structure with sufficient guards or protectors to prevent
injury to such tree. (Ord. 94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.080 Attaching objects to trees.
   It is unlawful for any person to attach any electric wires or device for
holding electric wire, signs, ropes, boards or other objects not related to the
regular growing habits of the tree to any tree in any street or parkway. (Ord.
94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.090 Liability of the city.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to impose any liability upon any
member of the city council or the city, or any of its officers or employees or
to relieve the owner and/or occupant of any private property from the duty to
keep his private property, sidewalk or parkways in front of such property in a
safe and sanitary condition so as not to be hazardous to public travel. (Ord.
94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
12.12.100 Violation.
   Any person who shall trim, deface, destroy, burn or remove trees in public
places without first filing an application and securing an encroachment permit
shall be required to replace the tree(s) with a like kind and size on at least
a ten-to-one ratio as determined by and to the satisfaction of the director.
(Ord. 94-10 § 2 (part), 1994)
Chapter 12.16 PERMITS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS
12.16.010 Purpose.
   A.   It is the purpose of the council to establish a process for permitting
special events conducted by the private sector to use city streets, facilities
or services. It is recognized that these special events enhance the Pismo Beach
lifestyle and provide benefits to the citizens through the creation of unique
venues for expression and entertainment that are not normally provided as a
part of governmental services.
   B.   Additionally, it is recognized that tax-exempt non-profit organizations
that benefit the community are central to the quality of life in Pismo Beach
and that they often develop through their special events the resources to
provide essential services to the citizens of the city of Pismo Beach. By
recognizing special event venues, the council intends to supplement land use
regulations, to provide a coordinated process for the regulation of certain
activities to be conducted in conjunction with special events, to ensure the
health and safety of patrons of special events, to prohibit illegal activity
from occurring within special event venues, and to protect the rights and
interests granted a special event permit holder. The council further intends to
create a mechanism for cost recovery and revenue sharing for commercial special
events and to ensure that the planning and scheduling of such events are
consistent with the legitimate financial interests of the city of Pismo Beach,
its residents and businesses, while limiting the potential adverse effect on
those events that contribute to the community. It is also the intent of the
council to protect the rights of its citizens to engage in protected free
speech and expressive activities, while allowing for the least restrictive and
reasonable, time, place and manner regulation of those activities within the
overall context of rationally regulating commercial special events that have an
impact upon public facilities and services. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.020 Definitions.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   "City property" means any city streets, sidewalks, piers, parking lots,
parks, boardwalks, plazas, beaches, or any other property owned or controlled
by the city.
   "Commercial special event" means any special event organized and conducted
by any person that does not qualify as a tax-exempt non-profit organization, a
primary purpose of which is the profit of the event organizer or promoter.
   "Demonstration" means any formation, procession or assembly of fifty or more
persons for the purpose of expressive activity:
   1.   To assemble or travel in unison on any street in a manner that does not
comply with normal or usual traffic regulations or controls; or
   2.   To gather at a public park or other public area.    "Event" includes a
special event or a demonstration.
   "Event organizer" means any person who conducts, manages, promotes,
organizes, aids or solicits attendance at a commercial or non-commercial
special event.
   "Expressive activity" includes conduct, the sole or principal object of
which is the expression, dissemination or communication, by verbal, visual,
literary or auditory means, of opinions, views or ideas and for which no fee or
donation is charged or required as a condition of participation in or
attendance at such activity. It includes public oratory and distribution of
literature.
   "Goods" means goods, wares, personal property, merchandise or any other
similar item which is generally sold.
   "Gross revenues" means the sum of all revenues received by an event
organizer for a special event, including, but not limited to, cash receipts,
licensing, sponsorships, television, advertising and similar revenues, and
concessions.
   "Non-commercial special event" means any special event organized and
conducted by a person that qualifies as a tax-exempt, non-profit organization
or any special event the primary purpose of which is the entertainment of the
public or the celebration of a civic holiday or event of public interest and
for which any fees charged or funds collected are utilized primarily for the
support of the event and/or the support of community services.
   "Sidewalk" means that portion of a highway, other than the roadway, set
apart by curbs, barriers, markings or other delineation for pedestrian travel.
   "Sign" means any sign, pennant, flag, banner, inflatable display, or other
attention-seeking device.
   "Special event" means:
   1.   Any organized formation, parade, procession or assembly consisting of
fifty or more persons, which may or may not include animals, vehicles or any
combination thereof, which is to assemble or travel in unison on any street
which does not comply with normal or usual traffic regulations or controls; or
   2.   Any organized assemblage of fifty or more persons at any public beach
or public park which is to gather for a common purpose under the direction and
control of a person; or
   3.   Any other organized activity conducted by a person for a common or
collective use, purpose or benefit which involves the use of, or has an impact
on, other public property or facilities and the provision of city public safety
services in response thereto.
   4.   Examples of special events include, but are not limited to concerts,
parades, special interest shows or expos, circuses, fairs, festivals, block
parties, community events, mass participation sports (such as, marathons and
running events, bicycle races or tours, or spectator sports (such as, football,
basketball and baseball games, golf tournaments, etc.).
   "Special events committee" (SEC). The special events committee is authorized
to carry out the provisions of the special events policies and city municipal
codes. In order to assure working representation from all appropriate segments
of the city government and to provide effective deliberation of all impacting
events, the SEC consists of members from various city departments that support
and regulate special events, such as, administration, police, fire, public
works, community development, conference and visitors bureau, Pismo Beach
chamber of commerce and two members, appointed by the city council, who are
residents of the city of Pismo Beach. The SEC will review all special event
applications and make recommendations to the city manager, who will review the
recommendations of the committee and the applicant's compliance with the
permitting procedures and maintain the ultimate approval authority. The chair
of the SEC is designated by the city manager.
   "Special event permit" means a permit issued under this ordinance.
   "Special event venue" means that area for which a special event permit has
been issued.
   "Street" means a way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and
open to use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. Street includes
highway.
   "Tax-exempt non-profit organization" means an organization that is exempted
from payment of income taxes by federal or state law and which has been in
existence for a minimum of three months preceding the date of application for a
special event permit.
   "Vendor" means any person who sells or offers to sell, any goods, food, or
beverages within a special event venue. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.030 Permit required.
   A.   Any person, group or organization desiring to utilize any city property
to conduct, promote, manage, aid, or solicit attendance at any special event,
shall first obtain a special event permit for use of city property from the
chair of the special events committee or designee. The processing fee for all
applications for such events shall be set by resolution of the city council and
shall be based upon the reasonable costs to the city of processing such
applications.
   B.   The chair of the special events committee or designee, after
application review by the SEC and approval by the city manager, is authorized
to issue permits for special events occurring within the city limits of Pismo
Beach pursuant to the procedures established in this section. The SEC will make
recommendations as to the appropriateness of the special event venue. The SEC
shall recommend reasonable boundaries for the special event venue, balancing
the special event requirements and public health, safety, and welfare. The SEC
is authorized to coordinate with other public agencies through whose
jurisdiction or property the event or portion thereof occurs and to make
recommendations as to the issuance of a special event permit upon the
concurrence of other public agencies involved.
(Ord. O-2016-004 § 9, 2016; Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.040 Exceptions to special event permit requirement.
   A.   A special event permit is not required for any activity listed in this
section.
   B.   Although not required to obtain a special event permit, an event
organizer of an activity exempted pursuant to this section is required to
comply with general regulations governing public safety or health and any other
provisions of the code specifically addressing such activities; to notify city
staff as designated herein of the event; and to cooperate with city staff in
coordinating the time, place and manner of the event so as to allow for
adequate provision of public safety support and to limit the potential for
adverse impact upon the public health and safety as necessary to prevent damage
to or interference with the use of public property.
   C.   The following activities are exempt from the special event permit
requirements:
   1.   Funeral processions by a licensed mortuary;
   2.   Activities conducted by a governmental agency acting within the scope
of its authority;
   3.   Lawful picketing on sidewalks;
   4.   Demonstrations that do not involve the use of vehicles, animals,
fireworks, pyrotechnics or equipment (other than sound equipment), provided
that:
   a.   No fee or donation is charged or required as a condition of
participation in or attendance at such demonstration.
   b.   The chief of police is notified at least ten days in advance of the
commencement of the demonstration or as soon in advance as is reasonably
practicable under the circumstances in order to provide for appropriate law
enforcement support of the demonstration, and in no case less than thirty-six
hours in advance.
   c.   The normal flow of traffic on streets and highways within the city is
not impeded or interfered with.
   d.   The health and safety of the public and/or participants is not placed
at risk. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.050 Issuance of a special event permit does not obligate city services.
   A.   Issuance of a special event permit to this section does not obligate or
require the city to provide city services, equipment or personnel in support of
an event.
   B.   Subject to recommendation of the SEC and approval of the city manager,
the city may provide city services, equipment, or personnel for commercial
special events. Approval of the city council is not required for the city
manager to provide city services, equipment, or personnel for a commercial
special event, if the SEC recommends and the city manager makes provisions with
the event organizer for cost recovery or revenue sharing, or both, from the
event.
   C.   Without council authorization, the city manager may authorize the
provision of city services, equipment or personnel in direct support of a non-
commercial special event, if the cost to the city does not exceed three
thousand dollars for the entire event, if the cost is within budget
limitations, and if the city manager in consultation with the SEC finds that an
articulated public purpose will be served. The city manager may find that a
public purpose is served if four of the following factors provided are met:
   1.   The event is organized and conducted by a tax-exempt non-profit
organization, which operates from or provides services within the city of Pismo
Beach or the five cities area.
   2.   The event provides an articulated benefit to the general public.
   3.   The event includes participation by the general public (notwithstanding
an admission or participation fee).
   4.   Any fee charged for admission or participation goes to the support of
the event or to the provision of services to the community.
   5.   Provision of city services will result in improved crowd or event
control and general public safety. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.060 Priority of special event permit issuance.
   Except for events sponsored by the city, and wherever possible, priority
shall be given for the issuance of a special event permit to local tax-exempt
non-profit organizations operating in and providing services to the citizens of
the city of Pismo Beach or San Luis Obispo County. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part),
2013)
12.16.070 Use of city logo or name.
   A.   In conjunction with an approved special event permit, the city manager
or designee may approve, by explicit written authorization, the use of city
insignia, as defined in Section 1.06.020 of this Code, or the words "City of
Pismo Beach," or any similar combination or facsimile thereof that reasonably
would imply an official endorsement of the event by the city, in conjunction
with the approved event.
   B.   Any authorized use of the city name, city logo, or other official city
insignia in conjunction with a special event shall comply with any further
permit conditions issued by city staff, and otherwise comply with the
provisions of Chapter 1.06 of this Code, applicable policy resolutions adopted
from time to time by the city council, and companion administrative policies
adopted from time to time by the city manager. Unauthorized use of City
Insignia is subject to prosecution under Sections 1.06.050 and 1.20.010 of this
Code. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 26, 2025; Ord. O-2016-004 § 10, 2016; Ord. O-2013-011
§ 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.080 Time for filing application for special event permit—Time for
notifying city manager and chief of police of demonstration.
   A.   An application for a special event permit shall be filed with the city
not less than sixty calendar days, nor more than two years, before the time
when it is proposed to conduct the special event. However, if an application is
submitted less than the required time, it shall be determined if there is
sufficient time remaining for proper review of the application under the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Any person organizing a demonstration shall notify the city manager and
the chief of police, who will immediately notify other potentially impacted
city services not less than ten calendar days before the time when it is
proposed to conduct the demonstration, except that where the demonstration is
prompted by a current event or other unplanned act or occurrence and the
relevance of the demonstration will be lessened or lost if the demonstration
cannot be held at the time and place and in the manner proposed. In any case,
the event organizer, must inform the chief of police at least thirty-six hours
in advance of the demonstration of its intent to hold a demonstration and shall
advise the chief of police of the anticipated time, place and attendance at the
event so that adequate public safety support of the demonstration can be
organized. (Ord. O- 2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.090 When application for special event permit is deemed complete.
   An application for a special event permit is deemed completed when the
applicant has provided all of the information required herein including any
additional information requested, such as payment(s), insurance and endorsement
certificates, park/hall application and fees, copy of department of alcoholic
beverage control license, copy of security guard contract, insurance
certificates and business licenses from vendors and any other documents
required by the city, and the application has been approved by the city
manager. (Ord. O-2016-004 § 11, 2016; Ord. O- 2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.100 Date of special event not confirmed until permit issued.
   Notwithstanding the city's acceptance of a completed application, no date
shall be considered confirmed until a special event permit is issued. (Ord. O-
2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.110 Content of special event permit application.
   The application for a special event permit must include the following:
   A.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   B.   A certification that the applicant will be financially responsible for
any city fees or costs that may be imposed for the event.
   C.   The name, address and telephone number of the event organizer, if any,
and the chief officer of the event organizer, if any.
   D.   If the special event is designed to be held by, on behalf of, or for
any organization other than the applicant, the applicant for the special event
permit shall file a written communication from such organization, which should
include:
   1.   Authorizing the applicant to apply for the special event permit on its
behalf.
   2.   Certifying that the applicant will be financially responsible for any
costs or fees that may be imposed for the event.
   E.   A copy of the tax exemption letter issued for any applicant claiming to
be a tax-exempt non-profit organization.
   F.   A statement of the purpose of the special event.
   G.   A statement of fees to be charged for the special event; and the
proposed location for the special event.
   H.   The date and times when the special event is to be conducted.
   I.   The approximate times when assembly for, and disbanding of, the special
event is to take place.
   J.   The proposed locations of the assembly or production area.
   K.   The specific proposed site or route, including a map and written
narrative of the route.
   L.   The proposed site of any reviewing stands; and the proposed site for
any disbanding area.
   M.   Proposed alternate routes, sites or times, where applicable.
   N.   The approximate number of persons, animals or vehicles that will
constitute the special event.
   O.   The kinds of animals anticipated to be part of the special event.
   P.   A description of the types of vehicles to be used in the special event.
   Q.   The proposed maximum number of bands or other musical units and the
nature of any equipment to be used to produce sounds or noise.
   R.   The number and location of portable sanitation facilities.
   S.   Other equipment or services necessary to conduct the event with due
regard for participant and public health and safety.
   T.   The number of persons proposed or required to monitor or facilitate the
special event and provide spectator or participant control and direction for
events using city streets, sidewalks, or facilities.
   U.   Provisions for first aid or emergency medical services, or both, based
on event risk factors.
   V.   Insurance and surety bond information.
   W.   Any special or unusual requirements that may be imposed or created by
virtue of the proposed event activity after consultation between the promoter
or sponsor and the SEC after approval by the city manager.
   X.   An application form consistent with this section shall be approved by
the city manager pursuant to this section and made available to applicants by
the chair of the special events committee or designee. (Ord. O-2016-004 § 12,
2016; Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.120 Conditions affecting the issuance of a special event permit.
   A.   The city manager, following receipt of a completed application and
after review by the SEC shall approve and the chair of the special events
committee or designee shall issue a special event permit, when all of the
conditions listed herein are met.
   1.   The event will not substantially interrupt public transportation or
other vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the area of its route.
   2.   The event will not cause an unresolvable conflict with construction or
development in the public right-of-way or at a public facility.
   3.   The event will not block traffic lanes or close streets during peak
commuter hours on weekdays between 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00
p.m. on primary city thoroughfares.
   4.   The event will not require the diversion of a great number of police
employees from their normal duties, thereby preventing reasonable police
protection to the remainder of the city.
   5.   The concentration of persons, animals or vehicles will not unduly
interfere with the movement of police, fire, ambulance, and other emergency
vehicles on the streets.
   6.   The event will move from its assembly location to its disbanding
location expeditiously and without unauthorized stopping en route.
   7.   The event will not substantially interfere with any other special event
or demonstration for which a permit has already been granted or which has been
previously scheduled or with the provision of city services in support of other
scheduled events or unscheduled governmental functions such as visits of chiefs
of state.
   8.   The event will not have unmitigable adverse impact upon residential or
business access and traffic circulation in the same general venue.
   9.   If the event is a marathon, it will not occur within thirty calendar
days of another marathon.
   B.   To make the determination hereunder, the city manager shall consider
pedestrian and traffic circulation, traffic volume and population density and
the city's ability adequately to support the event without compromising the
city's ability to provide for the needs of its citizens and ensure adequate
protection of the public health and safety.
   C.   In order to ensure that the conditions herein are met, the city manager
may place conditions on the special event permit. (Ord. O-2016-004 § 13, 2016;
Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.130 Reasons for denial of a special event permit.
   A.   The city manager shall deny a special event permit to an applicant who
has not:
   1.   Provided for the services of a sufficient number of traffic controllers
trained, certified and appointed pursuant to state requirements; or
   2.   Provided sufficient monitors for crowd control and safety; or
   3.   Provided sufficient safety, health or sanitation equipment, services or
facilities that are reasonably necessary to ensure that the event will be
conducted with due regard for safety; or
   4.   Provided, where applicable, sufficient off-site parking or shuttle
service, or both, when required to minimize any substantial adverse impacts on
general parking and traffic circulation in the vicinity of the event; or
   5.   Met all of the requirements for submitting an application for a special
event permit.
   B.   The city manager shall also deny a special event permit if:
   1.   The event has previously been shown, in Pismo Beach or another
locality, to have resulted in violent disorderly conduct by the participants
that endangered public safety or to have resulted in significant property
damage, unless the event organizer has provided a plan that provides for means
by which to mitigate against such conduct in the future and agrees to work in
conjunction with city staff to develop means by which to protect the public
safety and to prevent damage to public property; or
   2.   The event will violate public health or safety laws; or
   3.   The event fails to conform to the requirements of law or duly
established council policy; or
   4.   The applicant demonstrates an inability or unwillingness to conduct an
event pursuant to the terms and conditions of this section; or
   5.   The applicant has failed to conduct a previously authorized or exempted
special event in accordance with law or the terms of a permit, or both; or
   6.   The event will require the exclusive use of beach or park areas during
any period from Memorial Day through Labor Day in a manner which will adversely
impact upon the reasonable use or access to those areas by the general public;
or
   7.   The applicant has not obtained the approval of any other public agency
within whose jurisdiction the special event or portion thereof will occur; or
   8.   The applicant has failed to provide an adequate first aid or emergency
medical services plan based on event risk factors.
   C.   The city manager shall deny a special event permit to an applicant who
has failed to comply with any term of this section, or with any condition of a
special event permit previously issued to the applicant. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1
(part), 2013)
12.16.140 Appeal of final staff determination.
   A.   Should the SEC and/or the city manager deny the application for the
special event permit, the SEC chair shall notify the applicant in writing as
soon as is reasonably practical, but no longer than ten days after such
determination has been made.
   B.   Permits issued and determinations made by the SEC and city manager
pursuant to this chapter shall be appealable directly to the city council. Any
such appeals shall be made in writing, setting forth the grounds for appeal,
within ten working days of the final staff determination; public hearings
before the city council to consider such appeals shall be scheduled within
thirty calendar days of said appeal. The appeal fee will be set by resolution
of the city council.
   C.   The decision of the city council to grant or deny that appeal shall
constitute the exhaustion of the applicant's administrative remedy. (Ord. O-
2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.150 Display of special event permit required.
   A copy of the special event permit shall be displayed in the special event
venue in the method prescribed by the city manager applicable to the particular
event and shall be presented upon demand of any city official. (Ord. O-2013-011
§ 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.160 Content of special event permit.
   A special event permit may contain conditions and/or restrictions set forth
by the SEC and/or city manager, including the following information, as
applicable to the specific event:
   A.   The location of the special event venue, which may be identified by a
map attached to the special event permit.
   B.   The date, assembly area, time for assembly and starting time of the
special event.
   C.   The specific route plan to the special event.
   D.   The minimum and maximum speeds of the special event, if the event is
processional in nature.
   E.   The number and types of persons, animals and vehicles, the maximum
number of bands, other musical units and equipment capable of producing sound,
if any, and limitations thereon pertaining to noise abatement.
   F.   The maximum interval of space to be maintained between booths or other
structures to be used for the special event.
   G.   The portion of the street and sidewalk that is to be occupied by the
event and the location of reviewing or audience stands, if any.
   H.   The number and location of traffic controllers, monitors, other support
personnel and equipment and barricades to be furnished by the special event
organizer.
   I.   The area and time for disbanding.
   J.   Conditions or restrictions on the use of alcoholic beverages and
authorization for and conditions of the exclusive control or regulation of
vendors and related sales activity by the event organizer during the special
event.
   K.   Provisions for any required emergency medical services.
   L.   Such other information and conditions as are reasonably necessary for
the conduct of the special event and the enforcement of this section, including
the requirement for the on-site presence of the event organizer or its
designated representative for all event coordination and management purposes.
   M.   As a condition of the issuance of a special event permit, the applicant
shall be required to make adequate provisions for cleaning-up the area or route
of the event both during and upon completion of the event and to return the
area or route to the same condition of material preservation and cleanliness as
existed prior to the event. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.170 Action on special event permit application.
   A.   Except as provided herein, the SEC shall make a final recommendation to
the city manager for action upon a completed application for a special event
permit as soon as practicable.
   B.   The city manager is not required to take final action upon any special
event permit application prior to one hundred-eighty calendar days before the
event.
   C.   The city manager is not required to take final action on an incomplete
or untimely special event permit application.
   D.   Final action on a completed special event permit application shall
consist of one of the following:
   1.   Issuance of a special event permit in accordance with the terms of the
application; or
   2.   Issuance of a special event permit in accordance with the terms of the
application, as modified by mutual agreement between the city manager and the
applicant; or
   3.   Denial of the special event permit application by the city manager.
(Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.180 Insurance required to conduct special event.
   A.   The event organizer of a special event must possess or obtain
comprehensive general liability insurance to protect the city against loss from
liability imposed by law for damages on account of bodily injury and property
damage arising from the event. Such insurance shall name the city of Pismo
Beach, its officers, employees, and agents and, as required, any other public
entity involved in the event, as additional insured. Insurance coverage must be
maintained for the duration of the event. Notice of cancellation shall be
provided immediately to the city.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided, comprehensive general liability insurance
coverage required shall be in a combined single limit of at least one million
dollars. Large special events or those with higher risk to participants, shall
provide comprehensive general liability insurance coverage in a combined single
limit of at least two million dollars.
   C.   If the special event is of a demonstrated high or low risk category,
according to recognized insurance and risk management standards, the city
manager shall require a greater or lesser amount of coverage than generally
required, or may require a particular type of insurance coverage different from
that specified. In no case shall an increase in the amount of insurance
required be based upon the content of the message conveyed by or through a
given event or upon anticipated adverse response thereto.
   D.   The insurance required shall encompass all liability insurance
requirements imposed for other permits required under other sections of this
municipal code and is to be provided for the benefit of the city and not as a
duty, express or implied, to provide insurance protection for spectators or
participants.
   E.   The event organizer's current effective insurance policy, or copy,
along with necessary endorsements, shall be filed with the SEC at least thirty
calendar days before the event, unless the SEC recommends and the city manager,
for good cause stated, modifies the filing requirements. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1
(part), 2013)
12.16.190 Waiver of insurance requirements.
   A.   Except for special events where the sale of alcoholic beverages is
authorized or for traffic control permits issued in conjunction with a special
event, the insurance requirements of this section may be waived by the city
manager. In making the determination of whether to waive insurance, the city
manager shall consider the following factors:
   1.   Whether the special event is an expressive activity protected by the
First Amendment based upon:
   a.   Whether the applicant or an officer of the sponsoring organization of a
non-athletic event has filed a verified statement that he or she believes the
event's purpose is First Amendment expression.
   2.   Whether the applicant or officer of the sponsoring organization has
determined that the cost of obtaining insurance is financially burdensome and
would constitute an unreasonable burden on the right of First Amendment
expression.
   3.   Whether it is objectively impossible to obtain insurance coverage.
   4.   Whether the event will involve the use of equipment (other than sound
equipment), vehicles, animals, fireworks or pyrotechnics.
   5.   Whether a fee or donation is charged or required as a condition of
admission or participation in the event.
   6.   The required statement regarding unreasonably burdensome cost of
obtaining insurance shall include the name and address of one insurance broker
or other source for insurance coverage contacted to determine premium rates for
coverage.
   7.   To claim that it is objectively impossible to obtain insurance
coverage, the applicant shall submit a statement at least two independent
licensed insurance brokers demonstrating the insurance is unavailable in the
market place.
   8.   Even though insurance is waived, the city will require the event
organizer of a special event to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city
from any claim or liability arising from the event. In addition, all event
organizers are required to instruct all vendors to obtain a city of Pismo Beach
business license and necessary insurance prior to the event. (Ord. O-2013-011 §
1 (part), 2013)
12.16.200 Revocation of special event permit.
   A.   Any special event permit issued pursuant to this section is subject to
revocation pursuant to this section.
   B.   A special event permit shall be revoked if the city manager determines
based upon considerations supported by findings that:
   1.   The event cannot be conducted without violating the standards or
conditions for special event permit issuance; or
   2.   The event is being conducted in violation of any condition of the
special event permit; or
   3.   The event poses a threat to health or safety; or
   4.   The event organizer or any person associated with the event has failed
to obtain any other permit required pursuant to this code; or
   5.   The special event permit was issued in error or contrary to law.
   C.   Except in an emergency situation, where public health and safety are
imminently threatened, notices of revocation shall be in writing and shall
specifically set forth the reasons for the revocation.
   D.   If there is an emergency requiring immediate revocation of a special
event permit, the city manager or any member of the SEC may notify the permit
holder verbally of the revocation.
   E.   An appeal from a revocation shall be handled in the same manner and
under the same time requirements as denials of special event permits. (Ord. O-
2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.210 Cost recovery for commercial special events.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, or when funded or waived
by council resolution or ordinance, based upon specific findings that such
waiver is in the financial and/or commercial interest of the city, for any
commercial special event the city shall charge for the actual costs associated
with efforts required of city resources to provide traffic control, parking
restrictions, special barricading, emergency medical services, on-site
monitoring of events, lifeguard services, use of city equipment and other non-
personnel expense in support of the event or other special event needs shall be
the responsibility of the applicant and shall include all costs incurred by the
city, including actual staff time, material and equipment:
   1.   Personnel involved in event traffic control, fire safety or other
facility or event support to the extent that the usual demand for city services
is increased as a result of the event. Such charges shall be calculated at the
rates established by the city and based upon the actual cost to the city of
providing such additional services as may be required to support the event.
   B.   The city shall require payment of fees required herein or a reasonable
estimate thereof based upon objective criteria, including, but not limited to,
the geographic size of the event, estimated attendance at the event, and the
number of vendors and or participants expected. Such fees will be payable at
the time the completed application is approved, unless the city manager for
good cause extends time for payment.
   C.   If the event organizer fails to return city property to its pre-event
state, the event organizer will be billed for actual city costs for clean-up
and repair of the area or route occasioned by the event. It the event organizer
failed to comply with any required provision of this ordinance under a
previously issued special event permit, the SEC may recommend and the city
manager may require the event organizer to deposit adequate surety in the form
of cash or bond.
   D.   No amount shall be charged to a permittee pursuant to this section
based upon the content of the permitees' speech, the identity of the permittee,
or acts of third parties acting without prior approval of the permit holders.
(Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.220 Effect of receipt of donations on status of tax-exempt non-profit
organizations.
   A tax exempt non-profit organization sponsoring an event may acknowledge the
receipt of cash or in-kind services or goods, donations, prizes or other
consideration from for-profit organizations without causing the event to be
considered a commercial special event. Such acknowledgment may include use of
the name, trademark, service mark or logo of such a for-profit organization in
the name or title of the event or the prominent appearance of the same in
advertising or on collateral material associated with the event. (Ord. O-2013-
011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.230 Revenue sharing.
   A.   An event organizer of a commercial special event shall pay the city a
negotiated percentage of gross revenues, a flat fee, a combination percentage
of gross revenues and a flat fee, or any other revenue sharing agreement as may
be negotiated between the city manager and the event promoter or event
organizer and is deemed by the city manager to be in the best interests of the
city.
   B.   Cost recovery under Section
12.16.210 shall not be required of commercial special events where payment for
such services has been negotiated by the city within a revenue sharing
agreement.
   C.   An event organizer of a commercial special event shall not be required
to enter into a revenue sharing agreement with the city where the city has
funded or waived cost recovery pursuant to Section
12.16.210, or where the city manager determines, after negotiation with the
promoter or event organizer, that it is in the articulated best interests of
the city not to require a revenue sharing agreement based on findings that the
financial or commercial interests of the community are served by waiver of such
agreement. Any such agreement negotiated between the city manager shall be part
of the final contract between the city and the event organizer and shall be
subject to final approval by the city council, unless the city council has
formally delegated such final approval authority to the city manager. (Ord. O-
2016-004 § 14, 2016; Ord. O- 2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.240 Audits and accounting procedures.
   A.   An event organizer of a commercial special event shall make payment and
provide a final financial statement audited by a certified public accountant to
the SEC no later than thirty calendar days after the event for the fees and
revenues to be paid to the city. The city may also request such a statement
from an event organizer of an event for which a revenue sharing agreement,
costs or insurance requirements have been waived for financial reasons in order
to collect data to use in consideration of future requests for or decision to
waive costs or agreements.
   B.   At any time during normal business hours, and as often as the SEC or
city auditor deems necessary, all data and records pertaining to the event
shall be made available to the city for examination at reasonable locations
within the city of Pismo Beach or county of San Luis Obispo. The city will be
allowed to audit, examine, and make excerpts or transcripts from the records.
The records shall be retained for a period of not less than three years
following the event unless the city agrees to an earlier disposition. (Ord. O-
2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.250 Delegation of city manager's authority.
   The city manager may delegate any or all of his or her functions under this
section to his or her deputies or subordinates. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part),
2013)
12.16.260 City manager authorized to adopt administrative procedures.
   The city manager is authorized to promulgate additional administrative
procedures that are consistent with and that further the terms and requirements
set forth within this section and the provisions of law that pertain to the
conduct and operation of a special event or demonstration and subject to city
council approval. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.270 Authorized special event vendors.
   All special event vendors' permits fees, if any, shall be set by resolution
of the city council, unless other provisions are made for such fees pursuant to
the special events permit and/or contract between the city and the event's
organizer in the case of a commercial special event. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1
(part), 2013)
12.16.280 Other permits and licenses.
   A.   The issuance of a special event permit does not relieve any person from
the obligation to obtain any other permit or license required pursuant to this
code.
   B.   The issuance of any other permit or license issued pursuant to the
municipal code does not relieve any person from the obligation to obtain a
special event permit pursuant to this section. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part),
2013)
12.16.290 Exclusive right for use of city property.
   A.   Once the city has approved a special event permit for use of a specific
portion of city property, it is unlawful for any other person, group or
organization to use any portion of such city property for an unpermitted
special event during the permitted special event.
   B.   The chief of police has the authority to restrict the driving,
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles upon any public street, public
parking lot or other public property. These restrictions shall not be enforced
unless the public street, public parking lot or public property has been
properly posted at least twenty-four hours prior to the event.
   C.   Any police officer may cause the removal of any vehicle parked or left
standing upon any public street, public parking lot or public property which
has been posted at least twenty-four hours prior to giving notice of such
removal. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.300 Temporary uses of commercial property concurrent with special events.
   A.   The community development director may authorize a local business or
charitable or non-profit organization in a commercial zone to make a single
temporary use of the business owner's commercial property, including the
selling of parking spaces, during special events permitted by the city if the
following requirements are met:
   1.   The owner seeking to make such temporary use of his property submits an
application to the community development department not less than twenty-four
hours prior to the commencement of the permitted special event specifying:
   a.   The intended use.
   b.   Any structures to be used or erected in conjunction with the use.
   c.   Whether food and/or beverages are to be served and, if so, providing
proof of health department certification.
   d.   Whether other permits and or authorizations are required in conjunction
with the intended use and, if so, providing proof of issuance of such permits
and/or authorizations.
   e.   Any such intended use is otherwise consistent with all applicable
provisions of state and local law including the Health & Safety Code and the
Fire Code. Parking spaces, driveways and walkways shall not be blocked so as to
obstruct access by emergency vehicles.
   f.   Assurance must be given by the applicant that the use will be conducted
in an orderly manner and will not create a nuisance or otherwise interfere with
the permitted special event or the provision of city services.
   g.   The duration of the permit shall not be longer than the duration of the
permitted special event.
   h.   An application fee of fifty dollars shall be required to cover the
city's administrative and processing expenses associated with the application
and issuance of the permit, except that no fee shall be charged to any entity
presenting proof of its tax-exempt not-for-profit status.
   2.   Except as otherwise provided, the possession of a business license and
or temporary special event use permit shall not authorize any person to operate
any business on or within city sidewalks, streets, parking lots, piers, beaches
or any other property under the jurisdiction or control of the city unless and
until said person holds a then valid permit, lease, or other written
authorization from the city council to operate said business on said property.
   3.   The community development director or his/her designee shall have the
authority to place any conditions on the permit as she or he deems necessary
for the protection of the health and safety of the citizens of Pismo Beach so
long as the bases for such conditions are clearly stated along with any
conditions imposed.
   4.   If the proposed use is the rental of existing parking spaces in the lot
of a commercial property that is open for business during the proposed use, the
property owner must certify that the proposed use will not result in the
maintenance of an inadequate number of parking spaces as required to satisfy
zoning and/or normal operating requirements. Existing commercial properties
that are not open for business may rent all spaces in their lots for such
period of time as they are otherwise closed for business.
   5.   Police shall be responsible for enforcement of the terms of the permit.
   6.   The possession of a business license and or temporary special event use
permit shall not authorize local business owners to sell vendor space on their
property to for-profit entities in competition with vendors participating in
the special event. Each business owner shall be entitled to obtain a single
permit for the use of private commercial property by the owner, the owner's
tenant or a non-profit entity authorized by the owner. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1
(part), 2013)
12.16.310 Violations—Penalties.
   A.   It shall be an infraction for any person to sponsor or conduct a
special event, as defined in Section
12.16.010, unless a special event permit has been issued for the event or to
otherwise fail to comply with the requirements of this section.
   B.   It shall be an infraction for any person to participate in a special
event with the knowledge that the sponsor of the special event has not been
issued a special event permit.
   C.   It shall be an infraction for the special event permittee to violate
the terms and conditions of the special event permit, or for any special event
participant violate the terms or conditions of the special event permit.
   D.   It shall be an infraction for any person to hamper, interfere with,
obstruct or impede any special event which has been approved under this
chapter.
   E.   When the permitted special event is a race, parade or other type of
procession, it shall be an infraction to knowingly drive a vehicle or bicycle
between the persons or vehicles comprising the race, parade or procession
unless it is done at the direction of a police officer, authorized security
person or special event monitor in charge of traffic control.
   F.   It shall be an infraction for any person to park or leave unattended a
vehicle in violation of the parking control signs posted pursuant to Section
12.16.290. It shall also be an infraction for any person to remove or alter any
such parking control signs after the signs are posted and prior to the
completion of the special event.
   G.   It shall be an infraction for any event organizer to use in the title
of an event the words "The City of Pismo Beach" or "City of Pismo Beach," (or
any version thereof) or a facsimile of the seal of the city of Pismo Beach,
without the city's authorization.
   H.   It shall be an infraction for any person to sell for profit, or offer
to sell for profit, any ticket of admission to a special event within a special
event venue, except with the express authorization, of the city manager and in
the location(s) authorized by the city pursuant to a special event permit.
(Ord. O-2013-011 § 1 (part), 2013)
12.16.320 Cost recovery for unlawful special event.
   Whenever a commercial or non-commercial special event is conducted without a
special event permit when one is required, or an event is conducted in
violation of the terms of an issued special event permit, the event organizer
shall be responsible for, and the city shall charge the event organizer for,
all city costs incurred for personnel and equipment for a public safety
response caused or necessitated by the adverse impacts of the event, or the
violation of the special event permit, upon public safety. (Ord. O-2013-011 § 1
(part), 2013)
12.16.330 Council approval of commercial special events contracts.
   Any contract negotiated pursuant to the issuance of a special events permit
hereunder between the city manager on behalf of the city and the event
organizer and/or promoter of a commercial special event shall be subject to
final approval by the city council, unless the city council has formally
delegated such final approval authority to the city manager. (Ord. O-2013-011 §
1 (part), 2013)
Chapter 12.20 PUBLIC BEACH AND PIER USE REGULATIONS
12.20.010 Beach safety zone—Designated.
   The whole of the publicly owned beach and ocean area within the city limits
is designated as a safety zone and play area. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.020 Beach safety zone—Vehicles prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any motor vehicle,
motorcycle, sailmobile, trailer, motor scooter, wagon, or any mechanically
operated vehicle in the safety zone and play area, except for (i) non-motorized
bicycles; (ii) emergency vehicles; (iii) vehicles authorized in writing by the
city manager, director of public works and/or the chief of police; or (iv)
vehicles used for the sole purpose of transporting people with physical
disabilities. (Ord. O-2021-003, § 17, 2021: Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.030 Beach safety zone—Animals prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride or lead any horse, cow, donkey, mule,
jackass or sheep in the safety zone and play area, except as otherwise provided
in this chapter. Dogs are permitted on the beach subject to Section
6.12.150, Leash law. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.040 Beach safety zone—Garbage or debris prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit, leave, place or throw, or cause to
be left, deposited, placed or thrown any garbage or debris within the area of
the safety zone and play area, except in the receptacles provided for that
purpose. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.050 Beach safety zone—Prohibited actions.
   It is unlawful:
   A.   To ride or to use any surfboards, paddleboards or any similar objects
made entirely or partially of wood, metal, glass, hard plastics or any other
hard substance within one hundred feet of the pier;
   B.   To use any surfboard, paddleboard or similar object within the entire
beach safety area in a manner that constitutes a hazard to any other person
near or in the immediate vicinity of the person using said object;
   C.   To swim within one hundred feet of the pier;
   D.   To launch or operate jet skis within five hundred yards from the low
mean tideline or within kelp beds and sensitive wildlife areas within the
designated beach safety area of the city limits;
   E.   To fail or refuse to obey any reasonable command, order, instruction or
direction of any police officer, fire safety personnel or lifeguard given in
connection with or with reference to any use, operation, manipulation or
handling of any board, surfboard, paddleboard, jet ski, etc.
   F.   Except for smoke generated by portable barbeques as authorized in
Section
12.20.060, and except for ceremonial, religious or educational purposes, to
smoke within the boundaries of the beach safety zone. As used in this
subsection, "to smoke" means the carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar,
cigarette, or any other lighted smoking product or equipment used to burn any
tobacco products, weed, plant, or any other combustible substance. Actions
prohibited by this subsection include emitting or exhaling the fumes of any
pipe, cigar, cigarette, or any other lighted smoking equipment used for burning
any tobacco product, weed, plant, or any other combustible substance. A
violation of this subsection is an infraction.
   G.   To dispose of cigarette butts, cigar butts, or any other smoking-
related waste in the beach safety zone, except in any specifically designated
smoking waste receptacle. (Ord. 07-02 § 2, 2007: Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.060 Beach safety zone—Fires prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to start, make or leave, or prepare to start
or make any fire within the safety zone and play area. Exception: portable
barbecues used exclusively for food preparation. Coals from barbecues shall not
be discarded on the beach. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.070 Beach safety zone—Fireworks prohibited.
   Except as provided in Section 8.08.040 of this code, it is unlawful for any
person to possess, store, offer for sale, sell at retail or wholesale or use or
explode any fireworks within the beach safety zone and play area. (Ord. 95-05 §
2 (part), 1995)
12.20.080 Beach safety zone—Aircraft prohibited.
   No person shall land or operate any aircraft, including small unmanned
aircraft systems such as drones, in the area of the safety zone and play area.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 18, 2021: Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.090 Beach safety zone—Digging on beach.
   It is unlawful for any person to dig a hole, pit or excavation on the beach
exceeding a depth of one foot, unless specifically authorized by city building
or other permit. Any person who digs, or causes to be dug, any hole on the
beach shall fill the hole before leaving the beach area. The city shall post
adequate signs approved by the chief of police to inform the public of the
prohibitions on digging. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.100 Beach safety zone—Clamming.
   Clamming is permitted subject to the regulations contained in the California
Department of Fish and Game's California Sport Fishing Regulations, Sections
29.20 and 29.40. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.110 Beach safety zone—Exceptions.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any vehicle, small
unmanned aircraft systems, other aircraft, or animal operated, driven, or led
into said safety zone and play area by an official lifeguard of the city, or by
a member of the police or fire department, or by another official of the city,
or another person acting under the direction of such official, when such use is
in connection with the performance of the official duties of such official. The
city manager or designee may grant additional temporary exceptions to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. O-2021-003, § 19, 2021: Ord. 95-05 § 2
(part), 1995)
12.20.120 Beach safety zone—Patrolling and enforcement.
   It shall be the duty of police officers, fire department personnel and
lifeguards furnished by the city or any other law enforcement agency for the
purpose of patrolling the beach and safeguarding lives and property upon the
beach and in the waters adjacent to same within the city, to observe the manner
in which all such boating, fishing and wave-riding devices or equipment are
being handled and to issue such orders and commands, directions and
instructions in connection with or with reference to the aforementioned
activities as may be necessary to safeguard lives and person and property near
and in the vicinity of such person so engaged. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.130 Pier—Fishing—Safety required.
   Every person using, manipulating or fishing with any fishing tackle lines,
hooks, bait casting paraphernalia or other fishing equipment from any area of
the city pier from which fishing is not prohibited shall have due regard for
the safety of other persons near or in the vicinity of the person using said
equipment. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.140 Pier—Overhead casting unlawful.
   It is unlawful for any person to cast or to otherwise propel any hooks,
plugs, line or other fishing tackle or paraphernalia in an overhead manner from
any portion of the city pier at any time. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.150 Pier—Jumping or diving from unlawful.
   Except for public agency training and rescue, it is unlawful for any person
to dive or jump or in any manner propel themselves from any portion of the city
pier at any time. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.160 Pier—Leaving bait, fish, litter, etc., on pier.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave any fish, clam shells or other fish
bait, or the remnants from cleaning any fish or any other debris, papers or
litter of any kind upon the pier. It is unlawful to clean or cut up fish on the
pier, except at places provided for that purpose. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.170 Pier—Vehicles unlawful—Exceptions.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride any bicycle, motor-driven vehicle or
bus, automobile or truck, upon any portion of the city pier, except (a)
emergency vehicles; (b) vehicles making regular deliveries when necessary to do
so and when so authorized by the department of public services of the city in
writing and/or the chief of police; or (c) one- or two-passenger electrically
powered golfcart-type vehicles for the sole purpose of transporting people with
physical disabilities.
   It is also unlawful for any person to operate an authorized or permitted
vehicle, except emergency vehicles, at a speed in excess of five miles per hour
upon the pier. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.175 Pier—Prohibited actions.
   A.   Except for ceremonial, religious or educational purposes, it is
unlawful to smoke at any location on the City Pier, or on the Pier Promenade
adjacent to the Pier.
   B.   As used in this subsection, "to smoke" means the carrying or holding of
a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, or any other lighted smoking product or
equipment used to burn any tobacco products, weed, plant, or any other
combustible substance. Actions prohibited by this subsection include emitting
or exhaling the fumes of any pipe, cigar, cigarette, or any other lighted
smoking equipment used for burning any tobacco product, weed, plant, or any
other combustible substance.
   C.   A violation of this section is an infraction. (Ord. 07-02 § 3, 2007)
12.20.180 Pier—Dogs prohibited on pier.
   It is unlawful for any person to lead or cause to be led a dog upon the city
pier. An exception will be Seeing Eye dogs, companion dogs used by people with
disabilities and police canines. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.185 Pier—Display and sale of merchandise on pier and in pier zone.
   A.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases are defined as follows:
   1.   "Display device" means a table, rack, chair, box, cloth, stand, vehicle
or any container, structure or object used or capable of being used for holding
or displaying tangible things, together with any associated seating facilities;
"display device" does not include any street furniture such as any bench or
planter, or any other structure permanently installed by the city of Pismo
Beach or with the consent of the city of Pismo Beach.
   2.   "Business or commercial purpose" means any activity performed in
substantial part for the financial gain of the person or organization
responsible for the activity, whether on a nonprofit basis or a for-profit
basis.
   3.   "Merchandise" means goods, wares, printed matter, or any other tangible
thing offered for commercial distribution, or displayed as a demonstration or
sample of such an item offered for commercial distribution.
   4.   "Pier zone" means any public sidewalk, bench, lawn, street, parking lot
or any other area owned or controlled by the city of Pismo Beach, bounded by
the following lines: (1) on the west, the mean high tide line of the Pacific
Ocean, (2) on the north, a line extending along the northern edge of Pomeroy
Avenue past its ocean-side terminus to the mean high tide line, (3) on the
south, a line extending along the southern side of Hinds Avenue, past its
ocean-side terminus to the mean high tide line, and (4) on the east, the
easternmost line of the city pier parking lot. The pier zone also includes the
entirety of the city pier and the length of the boardwalk extending from the
city pier.
   B.   Commercial Display Devices on Streets and Sidewalks. Except as
permitted by written lease agreement with the city of Pismo Beach or by special
events permit pursuant to Chapter 12.16 of this title, no person shall place,
erect, maintain or cause to be placed, erected or maintained anywhere in the
pier zone wherein commercial display devices are not regulated by any other
provision of this code, any display device for any business or commercial
purpose, including the rent, sale, barter or exchange of any goods, wares or
merchandise.
   C.   Display of Merchandise on Streets and Sidewalks. Except as permitted by
written lease agreement with the city of Pismo Beach or by special events
permit pursuant to Chapter 12.16 of this title, no person for any business or
commercial purpose shall use the pier zone, wherein the commercial display of
merchandise is not regulated by any other provision of this code, for the
display of merchandise for sale, barter or exchange. A person uses the pier
zone for display of merchandise when he or she rests the merchandise within the
pier zone for public view or when he or she holds such merchandise for public
view while personally occupying a portion of the pier zone, or when he or she
rests such merchandise on a display device in the pier zone for public view.
   D.   Commercial Use of Pier Zone Prohibited. To ensure adequate and safe
movement for pedestrians within the pier zone, except as permitted by written
lease agreement with the city of Pismo Beach or by special events permit
pursuant to Chapter 12.16 of this title, it is unlawful for any person or
organization to sell, offer for sale, rent, offer for rent, or offer in
exchange for a donation or other forms of compensation, goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, refreshments, or other kinds of property, performances
or services in the pier zone.
   E.   Violations. Any person who erects, maintains, uses or causes to be
erected, maintained or used, any display device in violation of this chapter is
guilty of an infraction for the first offense. Any person who displays, sells,
offers for sale, rents, offers for rent, or offers in exchange for a donation
goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, refreshments or other kinds of property
or services in violation of this chapter is guilty of an infraction for the
first offense. Any subsequent violation occurring within six months after the
first violation shall constitute a misdemeanor. At the discretion of the city
attorney, any such violation may be prosecuted as an infraction. (Ord. O-2024-
001 § 4, 2024: Ord. 06-01 § 1, 2006)
12.20.190 Beach or pier—Tampering with lifesaving devices and equipment.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to write upon, cut, mark, stain
or otherwise deface, appropriate, damage, remove, move, use or otherwise
interfere with or to commit, other acts or act of vandalism on any of the
chairs, benches, seats, lifeboats, lifelines, life rings, umbrellas, lifeguard
towers, rescue vehicles, hydrants, fire hose, pier equipment, backrests,
pillows, cushions, robes, rugs or other beach equipment while same is upon the
beach, or city pier or other public property of the city; provided, however,
that this restriction shall not apply to the use of said objects or equipment
by authorized police officers, fire department personnel, lifeguards or other
persons in attempting to rescue or save any person in actual or apparent
danger. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.195 Pier—Feeding of birds in Pier Zone—Prohibited.
   A.   Within the pier zone, it is unlawful to:
   1.   Feed any pigeon, seagull or any other bird;
   2.   Disperse any food material or other matter edible by pigeons, seagulls,
or any other bird so as to make such material or matter available to pigeons,
seagulls or other birds for ingestion; or
   3.   Permit any food or other matter edible by pigeons, seagulls, or any
other bird to remain on the ground after dispersing or dropping the same.
   B.   As used in this section, "pier zone" means any public sidewalk, bench,
lawn, street, parking lot or any other area owned or controlled by the city of
Pismo Beach, bounded by the following lines: (1) on the west, the mean high
tide line of the Pacific Ocean, (2) on the north, a line extending along the
northern edge of Pomeroy Avenue past its ocean-side terminus to the mean high
tide line, (3) on the south, a line extending along the southern side of Hinds
Avenue, past its ocean-side terminus to the mean high tide line, and (4) on the
east, the easternmost line of the city pier parking lot. The pier zone also
includes the entirety of the city pier and the length of the boardwalk
extending from the city pier.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any public officer or
public employee in the performance of his or her duties.
   D.   A violation of this section shall constitute an infraction for the
first offense. Any subsequent violation occurring within six months after the
first violation shall constitute a misdemeanor. At the discretion of the city
attorney, any such violation may be prosecuted as an infraction. (Ord. 07-07
§ 1, 2007)
12.20.200 Beach or pier—Areas to be posted.
   The department of public works shall be responsible for adequately posting
areas described in this chapter advising the public of prohibited activities
within these areas. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.210 Pier Zone—Hours of closure.
   Except as provided in Section
12.20.230, it is unlawful for any person between the hours of eleven p.m. one
day and four a.m. the next day to be upon or within the pier zone. As used in
this section, "pier zone" shall have the same meaning as in Section 12.20.185.
A violation of this section is an infraction. Any person convicted of an
infraction under the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by the fine
specified in Municipal Code Chapter 1.20. (Ord. O-2024-001 § 5, 2024: Ord. 95-
05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.220 Pier parking lot—Vehicular traffic prohibited.
   It is unlawful and a parking violation and infraction for any person to
drive, park or to leave parked upon the pier parking lot, plaza area or pier
itself any vehicle for any period of time between the hours of eleven p.m. one
day and four a.m. the next day; provided, however, that vehicular through
traffic shall not be unlawful when passing, without delay, directly through the
parking lot from Pomeroy to Hinds, as indicated on Exhibit A, on file in the
office of the city clerk and incorporated in this section by reference. In
addition to the criminal infraction, any vehicle parked upon said areas during
said periods shall be towed away and impounded at the owner's expense. (Ord.
95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.230 Pier parking lot—Exceptions—Fishing permits.
   The prohibitions of Section
12.20.210 shall not apply to any person first obtaining a permit from the
police department for bona fide fishing purposes from the pier itself. One-day
permits shall be promptly issued without charge by the police department. No
person going to or returning from the pier pursuant to such a permit shall
delay or loiter upon the parking lot, plaza area or those portions of the pier
inland of the tideline. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
12.20.240 Signing of area.
   The city shall post adequate signs approved by the chief of police to inform
the public of the closure hours described in this chapter. (Ord. 95-05 § 2
(part), 1995)
12.20.250 Violations—Penalties.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter will carry the penalties
specified in Municipal Code Chapter 1.20. (Ord. 95-05 § 2 (part), 1995)
Chapter 12.22    SIDEWALK VENDING
12.22.010   Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a sidewalk vendor permitting and
regulatory program. The provisions of this chapter allow the city to encourage
small business activities by removing total prohibitions on sidewalk vending
and providing regulation and enforcement of unpermitted sidewalk vending
activities to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   A.   The City Council hereby finds that, to promote the health, safety, and
welfare, restrictions on sidewalk vending are necessary in part to:
   1.   Provide reasonable access for sidewalk vending activities in portions
of the city while preserving the use and maintenance of parks, sidewalks,
pathways, poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, restrooms, trash
receptacles, firefighting apparatus, mailboxes, public benches and/or planters,
as well as access to locations used for public transportation services.
   2.   Ensure no interference with pedestrian or vehicular traffic including
ingress into, or egress from, any residence, public building, or place of
business, or from the street to the sidewalk, by persons exiting or entering
parked or standing vehicles.
   3.   Ensure no interference with barriers designed to stop vehicles and
prevent injury to people.
   4.   Ensure no interference with the performance of public safety officers
including police, firefighters, lifeguards, and emergency medical services
personnel.
   5.   Reduce exposure to the city for personal injury or property damage
claims and litigation.
   6.   Ensure the safe sale of food and merchandise in the public right-of-
way, by providing the public a simple way to ensure sidewalk vendors prepare
food safely and according to San Luis Obispo County Department of Public Health
requirements.
   7.   Prevent unsanitary conditions and ensure trash and debris in the areas
vending is taking place are removed by sidewalk vendors.
   8.   Ensure that visibility, sight lines, and accessibility for vehicular
and pedestrian traffic on sidewalks and other rights-of-way are protected while
accommodating sidewalk vendor equipment.
   9.   Mitigate the impacts of sidewalk vending activity and protect the
unique characteristics of the city by maximizing public access to and along the
coast.
   B.   The City Council hereby finds that the unique characteristics of the
city require certain restrictions on sidewalk vending activities as follows:
   1.   The City Council finds that the existence in the city of sidewalk
vendors seeks to and does draw patrons to their food and merchandise. This can
create serious safety problems by impacting the ability of pedestrians to move
safely on sidewalks and through crosswalks and impeding the response time of
safety personnel, particularly in downtown Pismo Beach, at the beach, in city
parks, and in residential areas. Sidewalk vendors can also impact access to and
egress from businesses. This chapter imposes reasonable time, place, and manner
restrictions on sidewalk vendors to the extent necessary to ensure the safety
of sidewalk vendors, their patrons, the general public and to prevent
unreasonable interference with residents' enjoyment of peace and quiet in the
city.
   2.   City parks provide passive and active recreational opportunities, and
restrictions on sidewalk vending activity are necessary to safeguard coastal
access, and to protect the natural resources, recreational and sport
opportunities, and scenic and natural character of these parks.
   3.   The city seeks to preserve the peace and quiet of the residential zones
of the city, by prohibiting commercial activities such as sidewalk vendors.
Many of the sidewalks and pathways in the city are less than eight (8) feet
wide, and sidewalk vending activity in these areas would unreasonably interfere
with the flow of pedestrians and disrupt access for persons with disabilities.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.020   Sidewalk vendor permit required.
   A.   No person, either for themselves or any other person, shall engage in
any sidewalk vendor activities within the city without first applying for and
receiving a sidewalk vendor permit from the Administrative Services Department.
   B.   A written application for a sidewalk vendor permit shall be filed with
the Administrative Services Department on a form provided by the city. Such
application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee in such
amount as established by resolution of the City Council. Until such time as the
City Council amends its fee schedule to provide for this fee, the combined
business license fee and sidewalk vendor permit shall be $100, in addition to
the business license application fee and SB 1186 fee. A permit shall be valid
for the business license year from October 1st through September 30th of each
year, and shall expire and become null and void on the anniversary of its
issuance. A person may apply for a permit renewal on a form provided by the
city prior to the expiration of their active permit and corresponding business
license. Sidewalk vendor permit(s) are non-transferable and any change in
ownership or operation of a sidewalk vendor business requires a new permit.
   C.   The written application shall provide an address where the applicant
consents to receive service of process. An acceptable address for this purpose
shall include a post office box or private mailbox that complies with
California Business & Professions Code Section 17538.5.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.030   Issuance of permit.
   A.   The Administrative Services Director may issue the sidewalk vendor
permit if the Director finds based on all of the relevant information that:
   1.   The sidewalk vendor has provided adequate insurance as determined by
the City Attorney to protect the city from liability associated with sidewalk
vendor activities, with policy limits not less than $1 million per occurrence
and $2 million aggregate, where the city has been named as an additional
insured on the sidewalk vendor's insurance policy.
   2.   The conduct of the sidewalk vendor will not unduly interfere with
traffic or pedestrian movement, or interfere with or endanger the public
health, safety, or general welfare.
   3.   The conduct of the sidewalk vendor will not unduly interfere with
normal governmental or city operations, threaten to result in damage or
detriment to public property, or result in the city incurring costs or
expenditures in either money or personnel not reimbursed in advance by the
sidewalk vendor.
   4.   The conduct of such sidewalk vending activity will not constitute a
fire hazard.
   5.   The sidewalk vendor has paid all previous administrative fines and
completed any other alternative disposition associated in any way with a
previous violation of this chapter.
   6.   The sidewalk vendor has not had a permit revoked within the past twelve
(12) months.
   7.   The sidewalk vendor application contains all required information and
the sidewalk vendor has not made a materially false, misleading, or fraudulent
statement of fact to the city in the application process.
   8.   The sidewalk vendor has obtained a business license pursuant to
Chapter 5.04.
   9.   The sidewalk vendor has obtained a valid California Department of Tax
and Fee Administration seller's permit.
   B.   To prevent an undue concentration of commercial activity that
unreasonably interferes with the scenic and natural character of the city's
parks, the Administrative Services Director shall authorize no more than five
(5) concurrent sidewalk vendor permits for stationary food sales in all (not
each) city parks, or no more than five (5) concurrent sidewalk vendor permits
for merchandise sales in all (not each) city parks.
   C.   Because the city has entered into exclusive agreements for vending of
merchandise and food in city parks in the Pier Zone defined in Section
12.20.185(a)(4) of this Code, no sidewalk vending permit shall be issued for
stationary sidewalk vending activities in city parks in the Pier Zone.
   D.   To ensure the public's use and enjoyment of natural resources, coastal
access and recreational opportunities at the City Pier, to prevent an undue
concentration of commercial activity that unreasonably interferes with the
scenic and natural character of the City Pier and boardwalk, and to ensure
adequate social distancing during such times as public health orders are in
effect recommending such social distancing, no sidewalk vending permit shall be
issued for sidewalk vending activities on the City Pier or boardwalk adjacent
to the City Pier.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.040   Denial of sidewalk vendor permit.
   A.   If the Administrative Services Director finds that the requirements set
forth in Section
12.22.030 as applicable have not been met, the Director shall deny the
application for the sidewalk vendor permit. The Administrative Services
Director shall provide written notice of such denial specifying the ground or
grounds of such denial. Notice of denial of the application for the permit
shall be deemed to have been served upon the date it is personally served on
the sidewalk vendor, when deposited in the United States mail with postage
prepaid and addressed to the sidewalk vendor at the vendor's residence address
as set forth in the application for the permit, or when notified by city email
to the sidewalk vendor's email address provided to the city when the business
license and permit were issued.
   B.   Any sidewalk vendor whose application for a sidewalk vendor permit has
been denied by the Administrative Services Director may appeal such denial to
the City Manager by filing a written notice of appeal with the Administrative
Services Director within ten (10) days following the date of service of the
decision and payment of the appeal fee prescribed by resolution of the City
Council. The date of filing of said notice of appeal shall be the date the
Administrative Services Director receives the notice and appeal fee.
   C.   To ensure the availability of sufficient sidewalk vendor permits for
small businesses for whom sidewalk vending is a primary occupation, any person
or entity that maintains a physical location for a business within the city
shall be ineligible to apply for a sidewalk vendor permit under this chapter.
   D.   No person whose permit is finally denied shall be eligible to apply for
a new sidewalk vendor permit for a period of one year following such final
denial.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.050   Revocation of permit.
   Any sidewalk vendor permit may be revoked by the Administrative Services
Director for good cause shown including but not necessarily limited to any of
the following reasons:
   A.   Falsification of any information supplied by the sidewalk vendor upon
which issuance of the permit was based.
   B.   Failure of the permittee, or any employees or subcontractors of the
permittee, to comply with the regulations set forth in this chapter.
   C.   No sidewalk vendor whose permit is revoked shall be eligible to apply
for a new permit for a period of one year following such revocation.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.060   Appeal process for revocation of a permit.
   Upon receipt of a timely appeal, the City Manager or their designated
representative shall hear such appeal within twenty (20) days following the
date of such appeal and shall give the sidewalk vendor not less than five (5)
days' advance notice of the date of such hearing. The decision of the City
Manager shall be based upon the criteria applicable to the issuance or
revocation of such permit. The sidewalk vendor shall be notified of the
decision of the City Manager by mailed, written notice. The decision of the
City Manager shall be final. No revocation of a permit pursuant to this section
shall be deemed effective during the pendency of a timely filed appeal until
the date of mailing of the City Manager's decision; provided, however, no
permit holder shall operate during any period of time in which the insurance
coverage required by this chapter is not in full force and effect.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.070   Operating conditions.
   Every sidewalk vendor is subject to the following operating conditions when
conducting sidewalk vending activities:
   A.   All food and merchandise shall be stored either inside or affixed to
the sidewalk vendor's cart or carried by the sidewalk vendor. Food and
merchandise shall not be stored, placed, or kept on any public property. If
affixed to the cart, the overall space taken up by the cart shall not exceed
the size requirements provided in this section.
   B.   Sidewalk vendors may only sell food and/or merchandise. Sidewalk
vendors shall not sell or provide services.
   C.   The business license and sidewalk vendor permit shall be displayed
conspicuously at all times on the cart or on the person of the sidewalk vendor.
If multiple sidewalk vendors are staffing a cart, each person shall obtain and
wear their vendor permit on their person in a conspicuous manner.
   D.   All signage and advertising related in any way to the sidewalk vendor
shall comply with the city's sign laws. Sidewalk vendors shall not use any
electrical, flashing, wind-powered, or animated sign.
   E.   All sidewalk vendors shall allow a police officer, firefighter,
lifeguard, code enforcement officer, health inspector, or other government
official charged with enforcing laws related to sidewalk vendor activities, at
any time, to inspect their carts for compliance with this chapter.
   F.   Carts and any attachments thereto shall not exceed a total height of
four (4) feet, a total width of four (4) feet, and a total length of four (4)
feet.
   G.   No cart shall contain or use propane, natural gas, gasoline, or other
explosive or hazardous materials. No cart shall use electrical power furnished
by a generator using any of these substances.
   H.   Sidewalk vendors selling food shall have in their possession at all
times they are conducting sidewalk vending activities, all applicable food
vending licenses and permits issued by the County of San Luis Obispo or other
regulatory agency.
   I.   Sidewalk vendors that sell food shall maintain a trash container in or
on their cart and shall not empty their trash into public trashcans. The size
of the sidewalk vendor's trash container shall count as part of the size limit
of a cart.
   J.   Sidewalk vendors shall not leave any location without first picking up,
removing, and disposing of all trash or refuse from their operation. Sidewalk
vendors shall immediately clean up any food, grease, or other fluid or item
related to sidewalk vending activities that falls on public property.
   K.   Sidewalk vendors shall ensure that all required insurance is in effect
prior to conducting any sidewalk vendor activities and maintained for the
duration of the permit.
   L.   Sidewalk vendors shall not leave their cart unattended.
   M.   Cart(s) shall not touch, lean against, or be affixed at any time to any
building or structure including, but not limited to lampposts, parking meters,
mailboxes, traffic signals, fire hydrants, benches, bus shelters, newsstands,
trashcans or traffic barriers.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.080   Prohibited activities and locations.
   A.   Sidewalk vendors shall not engage in any of the following activities:
   1.   Renting merchandise to customers.
   2.   Displaying merchandise or food not available for immediate sale.
   3.   Selling of alcohol, cannabis, adult-oriented material, weapons, tobacco
products, products that contain nicotine, or any product used to smoke/vape
nicotine or cannabis.
   4.   Using an open flame on or within any cart.
   5.   Using an electrical outlet or power source that is owned by the city,
or by any other person or entity without the permission of such person or
entity.
   6.   Conducting sidewalk vending activities anywhere in the city between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. on one day and 7:00 a.m. the next day, unless businesses in
non-residential zones on the same street are permitted to remain open during
those hours, in which case sidewalk vending activities shall be conducted no
later than the closing hour for such business, nor earlier than the opening
hour for such business.
   7.   Providing or selling any service to any person.
   B.   Sidewalk vendors shall not engage in sidewalk vending activities in any
of the following locations.
   1.   On any city property that does not meet the definition of a sidewalk
including, but not limited to, any multi-modal path, paved or unpaved park
pathway, bicycle path, alley, beach, the City Pier, Pier Plaza, boardwalk
adjacent to the City Pier, street, street end, or parking lot. As used in this
chapter, "sidewalk" shall have the same meaning as the definition of "sidewalk"
under California Vehicle Code Section 555.
   2.   Due to the narrow width of sidewalks, to ensure adequate social
distancing during such times as public health orders are in effect recommending
such social distancing, and to ensure compliance with the federal Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 and other disability access standards, on
sidewalks bordering the following streets:
   a.   Shell Beach Road from Cliff Avenue to Terrace Avenue.
   b.   Pomeroy Street from Dolliver Street to the Pier Parking lot.
   c.   Hinds Avenue from Dolliver Street to the Pier Parking lot.
   d.   Main Street from Dolliver Street to the city beach.
   e.   Price Street from Bay Street to Ocean View Avenue.
   f.   Dolliver Street from Bay Street to Ocean View Avenue.
   g.   Cypress Street from Main Street to Ocean View Avenue.
   3.   For stationary sidewalk vendors, in any residential zone of the city.
   4.   Within a five hundred (500)-foot radius of a permitted certified
farmers' market during the limited operating hours of that certified farmers'
market.
   5.   Within a five hundred (500)-foot radius of an area designated for a
temporary special permit issued by the city pursuant to
Chapter 12.16 during the limited duration of the temporary special permit.
   6.   Within fifty (50) feet of any street intersection.
   7.   Within fifteen (15) feet of any fire hydrant, or other emergency
response equipment or facility.
   8.   Within twenty-five (25) feet of any driveway or driveway apron.
   9.   Within fifty (50) feet of a transit stop.
   10.   Upon or within any roadway, median strip, or dividing section.
   11.   Upon an outdoor area that is unpaved or unimproved (i.e., is not made
from concrete, asphalt, or similar material).
   12.   Within two hundred fifty (250) feet of any property on which a school
building or facility is located during the following times:
   a.   An hour before school is in session; and
   b.   An hour before and an hour after school dismissal.
   13.   Within two hundred fifty (250) feet of any public picnic area,
playground area, or playground equipment.
   14.   Within one hundred (100) feet of any signalized intersections or in
any manner that blocks traffic signal equipment and cabinets.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.090   Violation—Penalty.
   A.   Violations of this chapter shall not be prosecuted as infractions or
misdemeanors and shall only be subject to administrative citation pursuant to
Chapter 1.24. The amount of such fines shall be as set forth in Section
1.24.080.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section
1.24.080, if a sidewalk vendor violates any portion of this chapter and cannot
present the citing officer with proof of a valid sidewalk vending permit, the
sidewalk vendor shall be assessed administrative fines in the following
amounts:
   1.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a first
violation.
   2.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second
violation within one year of the first violation.
   3.   A fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
additional violation within one year of the first violation.
Upon proof of the existence of a valid permit issued under this chapter, the
fines set forth in this subsection shall be reduced to the fines set forth in
Section
1.24.080.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
12.22.100   Citation appeals.
   Administrative citations may be appealed pursuant to
Chapter 1.24. If the hearing officer finds the person meets the financial
criteria described in Government Code Section 68632(a) or (b), and the hearing
officer upholds the citation, the hearing officer shall, as part of the notice
of decision required under Section
1.24.120, impose an administrative fine equal to no greater than twenty percent
(20%) of the administrative fine imposed pursuant to this chapter. The hearing
officer may allow the person to complete community service in lieu of paying
the total administrative fine, may waive the administrative fine, or may offer
an alternative disposition.
(Ord. O-2020-005 § 2 (part), 2020)
Chapter 12.24 PREFERENTIAL PARKING AREAS
12.24.010 Designation by resolution.
   A.   The council may, by resolution, after a noticed public hearing,
designate an area of the city as a residential parking permit area if the
council finds that the area is predominantly residential, that the streets in
the area are congested with vehicles parked by persons not residing in the
area, and that limiting the parking of vehicles along the streets in the area
to vehicles registered or controlled and exclusively used by persons residing
in the area is necessary in order to preserve the quality of life of persons
residing in the area.
   B.   In determining whether limiting the parking of vehicles along the
streets in the area to vehicles registered to or controlled and used
exclusively by persons residing in the area, the council shall consider the
effect of vehicles parked by persons not residing in the area on ambient noise
levels, air pollution levels and other environmental characteristics of the
area, pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety in the area, and the burden on
persons residing in the area in gaining access to their residences. (Ord. 88-15
§ 1 (part), 1988: prior code § 10.10.010)
12.24.020 Content of resolution.
   The resolution designating an area of the city as a residential permit
parking area shall describe the designated area along which parking will be
limited (1) to vehicles registered to or controlled and exclusively used by
persons residing in the area, and (2) vehicles registered to or controlled by
and exclusively used by visitors to persons residing in the area, and shall set
forth the hours and days when parking will be limited to those vehicles. (Ord.
88-15 § 1 (part), 1988: prior code § 10.10.020)
12.24.030 Sign posting.
   Upon adoption of a resolution by the council designating an area of the city
as a residential parking permit area, the city traffic engineer shall cause
appropriate signs to be erected along the streets identified in the resolution
which shall give notice of the preferential parking of vehicles in the area,
and shall indicate the hours and days when such limitations shall be in effect.
(Ord. 88-15 § 1 (part), 1988: prior code § 10.10.030)
12.24.040 Unlawful acts.
   It is unlawful and an infraction for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle on any street identified in a resolution adopted by the council
designating a residential permit parking area during the hours and on the days
set forth in such resolution except:
   A.   Those vehicles displaying a valid city preferential parking permit;
   B.   An emergency vehicle, including, but not limited to, an ambulance, fire
engine or police vehicle; or
   C.   A vehicle which is under the control of a person providing service to
property located in the designated residential permit parking area, including,
but not limited to, a delivery vehicle. (Ord. 88-15 § 1 (part), 1988: prior
code § 10.10.040)
12.24.050 Application for permit—Fee.
   Applications for residential parking permits shall be filed with the city
finance director in a form prescribed by the finance director, shall be
accompanied by proof in a form satisfactory to the finance director of the
applicant's place of residence and in the case of application for the
resident's vehicle, proof of registration or use and control of each vehicle
for which a residential parking permit is sought, and shall be accompanied by a
fee in an amount fixed by resolution of the council as per schedule on file
with the finance director, no part of which shall be refundable to the
applicant. (Ord. 88-15 § 1 (part), 1988: prior code § 10.10.050)
12.24.060 Violation—Penalty.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine for each separate offense as provided
otherwise for overtime parking in a time restricted parking zone. (Ord. 88-15 §
1 (part), 1988: prior code § 10.10.060)
Chapter 12.28 OVERNIGHT CAMPING
12.28.010 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following terms shall have the meaning
defined in this section:
   "Camp" means the use of camping facilities such as tents, tarpaulins or
temporary shelters, the use of nonpublic cooking facilities and similar
equipment or the use of cots, beds, sleeping bags or hammocks.
   "Camping trailer" means a vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and
constructed with collapsible partial sidewalls which fold for towing by another
vehicle and unfold at the campsite and designed for human habitation.
   "Motor home" means a vehicular unit built on or permanently attached to a
self-propelled motor vehicle chassis, chassis cab or van, which becomes an
integral part of the completed vehicle, designed for human habitation.
   "Overnight" includes the hours between one-half hour after sunset and
sunrise the following day.
   "Recreational vehicle" includes a motor home, slide-in camper, travel
trailer, truck camper, or camping trailer, with or without motor power,
designed for human habitation.
   "Slide-in camper" means a portable unit, consisting of a roof, floor and
sides, designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup truck,
and designed for human habitation and shall include a truck camper.
   "Travel trailer" means a portable unit, mounted on wheels, of such a size
and weight as not to require special highway movement permits when drawn by a
motor vehicle and designed for human habitation. (Ord. 91-16 § 1 (part), 1991)
12.28.020 Prohibition.
   Except as authorized by permit issued by the city manager or his/her
designee, it is unlawful for any person to camp overnight or to occupy any
recreational vehicle overnight:
   A.   In any public park or beach not designated for camping;
   B.   In any public street;
   C.   In any public parking lot or public area, improved or unimproved;
   D.   In any vacant parcel of property located within the city.
(Ord. O-2016-004 § 15, 2016; Ord. 91-16 § 1 (part), 1991)
12.28.030 Violation.
   Violation of this chapter shall constitute an infraction. (Ord. 91-16 § 1
(part), 1991)
Chapter 12.32 ENCROACHMENTS
12.32.010 Findings.
   The council finds and declares the following: (1) the uncontrolled
encroachment into the public right-of-way creates potential physical dangers to
the traveling public and the numerous pedestrians who use the public rights-of-
way in the city; and (2) limited, controlled encroachment and access into the
public right-of-way should not be unreasonably or absolutely denied. The
council concludes that reasonable accommodation can be satisfactorily achieved
through this chapter of the city's municipal code which provides for special
accommodations for encroachments into the right-of-way for any purpose deemed
necessary or desirable and otherwise complying with state, city, and other
applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 28 (part), 2025; Ord. 98-04
§ 1, 1998: Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.015 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   "Director" means the public works director of the city of Pismo Beach, or
designee.
   "Encroachment" includes any encroachment or excavation in, under, on, or
over any road or other public place, including any highway, alley, street,
avenue, place, sidewalk, path, walk, park, plaza, boulevard or right-of-way or
any other public place in the city whether or not currently improved.
   "Encroachment Agreement" means an agreement between the City and the
property owner that is required for permanent structures in the public right-
of-way, upon approval of the City Council and is recorded with the County
Recorder's Office memorializing the encroachment and the property owner's
responsibilities for the encroachment.
   "Encroachment Permit" means a permit allowing temporary work in, or use of,
the public right-of-way by a third party.
   "Newsracks" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section
12.10.020.
   "Permanent structure" includes, but is not limited to the following: fences,
walls, or other structures that are designed to remain in place for a long
period of time.
   "Personal property" includes, but is not limited to the following:
construction materials, trash dumpsters, portable toilets, furnishings,
produce, merchandise, store boxes, store substances or materials, signs, or any
other object or implement of any class, kind or character.
   "Public right-of-way" means any road or other public place, including any
highway, alley, street, avenue, place, sidewalk, path, walk, park, plaza,
boulevard or right-of-way or any other public place in the city whether or not
currently improved.
   "Retail food establishment" means any fixed facility in which food or drink
is offered or prepared primarily for immediate consumption.
   "Sidewalk cafe" means any group of tables and chairs, and its authorized
decorative and accessory devices, situated and maintained in whole or in part
on the public sidewalk or other rights-of-way for use in connection with the
consumption of food and beverages sold to the public from or in an adjoining
indoor retail food establishment. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 28 (part), 2025; Ord. O-
2021-005 § 2, 2021: Ord. O-2021- 003, § 20, 2021: Ord. 98-04 § 2, 1998; Ord.
98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.020 Encroachment restrictions.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to make any encroachment into the public
right-of-way without first being issued an encroachment permit, as provided in
this chapter.
   B.   No person shall leave, place or cause to be placed, any personal
property upon any sidewalk, gutter, alley, or street within the city without
first obtaining an encroachment permit authorizing the same. This section shall
not be construed to prohibit parking of bicycles and vehicles where otherwise
allowed.
   C.   No person shall construct any permanent structures upon any public
sidewalk, gutter, alley, or street within the city without first obtaining an
encroachment permit and preparation and filing of an encroachment agreement
authorizing the same. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 28 (part), 2025; Ord. 98-03 § 1
(part), 1998)
12.32.030 Encroachment permits.
   A.   Application. Any person desiring to encroach upon, or to cause, allow
or make any encroachment into the public right-of-way must first obtain a
permit to do so. Applicants shall file a written application with the director
to obtain a permit. The application shall be in the form prescribed by the
city, and shall have the following information (as applicable):
   1.   Location of the encroachment;
   2.   The reason or necessity for encroachment;
   3.   Estimated time to begin and complete the work or placement of an
encroachment;
   4.   Plans and specifications covering the encroachment as may be required
by the city;
   5.   Estimated cost of repairing damage to the road or other public property
caused by the encroachment;
   6.   Length of time the encroachment will be kept in place;
   7.   Each permit shall expressly provide that any personal property placed
upon the sidewalk pursuant to the permit shall extend no further along the
sidewalk than the exterior limits of the merchant's place of business;
   8.   Each permit shall expressly state, and the permittee shall agree, that
in all cases a minimum sidewalk width of five (5) feet shall be kept clear of
any obstruction at all times;
   9.   Name, address, and phone number of the person responsible for
maintaining the encroachment during the lifetime of the encroachment;
   10.   Other information as may be required by the director.
   All terms and conditions of this chapter shall be incorporated by reference
and implication into any permit issued the city.
   B.   Approval/conditional approval. Upon receiving an application to
encroach upon the public right-of-way, the director shall either issue,
conditionally issue, or deny it. If the application is approved, or
conditionally approved, the director shall cause the deposit, if any, to be
paid into the city treasury and/or such surety bond, if any, to be deposited
with the finance director, and shall issue a written permit authorizing the
encroachment. The permit shall include all of the conditions required by this
code and any conditions set by the director. In the event that application is
denied, any deposit made or bond submitted in connection therewith shall be
forthwith returned to the applicant. If the application is for a permanent
structure and is approved, or conditionally approved, the preparation and
filing of an encroachment agreement shall be completed prior to the
encroachment.
   C.   Fee. A fee for encroachment permits may be established by resolution of
the city council and shall be paid to the city at the time of application for
issuance or renewal of any encroachment permit. Public utility companies
operating under franchise agreement with the city may pay annually for permit
fees or provide a deposit in advance of the estimated volume of permit
applications subject to an agreement approved by the director.
   D.   Length of time valid. Encroachment permits shall be issued for a
specific length of time, which shall not exceed a reasonable time necessary as
determined by the director. In the absence of any prior agreement to the
contrary, no cause shall be necessary to be shown or proven for the city
council to modify, revise, or revoke any encroachment permit or deny an
original or renewal request.
   E.   Cleaning/sweeping. Permittees shall be required to clean/sweep that
portion of the right-of-way encroached upon. Unless authorized by the director,
no material or debris shall be allowed to remain in the right-of-way.
Construction encroachments into roadways shall be swept by street sweepers at
the expense of the permittee.
   F.   Security deposit. Unless waived by the director, a deposit shall be
required prior to the issuance of an encroachment permit involving construction
in the street right-of-way. The deposit shall be either cash, cashier's check,
certified check, certificate of deposit, surety bond issued by a company
authorized to do business in the state, or other
form acceptable to the director. The director shall set the amount of the
deposit based on potential damage to public property which may be caused by the
project or which will result if the project is not completed. All deposits
shall remain in force for a period of up to one (1) year from the date of
completion of the work authorized by the permit. Utility companies doing work
under franchise are exempt from making a security deposit. Upon satisfactory
completion of all the terms and conditions of an encroachment permit, and after
the expiration of the time period established by the permit, the finance
director shall be authorized and directed to return the cash deposit or bond or
other security posted by the permittee to the permittee. The amount returned
will not include any interest, unless required by prior agreement or law.
   G.   Other permits. It shall be the duty of any person causing, allowing,
making, or maintaining any encroachment in any road or other public place in
the city, to procure all permits and licenses, pay all charges and fees, and
give all notices necessary and incidental to the due and lawful prosecution of
the work as required by other agencies.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 29, 2025; Ord. O-2021-003, § 21, 2021: Ord. 98-04 §§ 3, 4,
1998; Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.040 Emergency work.
   If in the course of events the owner of a previously approved encroachment
finds that emergency repairs are necessary to protect the facility, or to
protect the investment of the owner and/or to provide continuing service to the
public, and the owner of the facility finds that the city office that would
issue the encroachment permit is not open, the owner may, after reporting to
the police department the nature of any encroachment into the public roadway
that may affect vehicle traffic or pedestrians, and after notifying the
regional notification center (underground service alert), conduct such work as
is necessary to cause the needed repairs, provided that the owner of the
facility requests a permit for the work conducted on the next day that the city
office that issues encroachment permits is open. Not withstanding any other
provisions of this code, no emergency work may be done if the police department
determines that the proposed work would represent an unreasonable threat to the
public health, welfare or safety. (Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.050 Excavations—Safety requirements.
   Unless waived by the director, it shall be the duty of any person making any
excavation in any road or other public place in the city to place and maintain
lights at each end of the excavation, and at distances as required by the
director along the lines thereof, from sunset of each day to sunrise of the
next day, until the excavation is entirely refilled and repaired to a safe
condition to the satisfaction of the director; and such person shall safeguard
the work in accordance with requirements as stated on the permit with such
barriers, signs, and measures as may be necessary and proper in each case to
provide for the safety of persons, animals, and vehicles using such public
roads or other public place. Additional safety measures may be required as
prescribed by the director and set out in the permit granted. The permittee
shall be responsible to obtain any other permits that may be required. No
permit to excavate shall be valid until the applicant has complied with state
regulations regarding notification of a regional notification center
(underground service alert) and the receipt of an inquiry identification
number. (Ord. O-2021-003, § 22, 2021: Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.060 Work to be pursued with diligence.
   After any work or project is commenced as permitted under this chapter, the
same shall be pursued with due diligence from day to day until completed, and
so as not to obstruct the road or other place more than is reasonably
necessary. (Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.100 Defects—Abandonment of property—Cost to remedy.
   A.   Defects. If the encroachment is not maintained in the manner and within
the conditions required by the provisions of this chapter and the permit, the
director shall notify the permittee in writing, and if the defect is not
remedied within the time specified in the notice, the director shall cause the
defect to be remedied in the proper manner and shall restore the road or other
public place to its original condition; provided, however, if the defect
constitutes an immediate danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, the
director shall have authority to immediately remedy the defect or remove the
encroachment.
   B.   Abandoned property. Abandoned or inoperative property must be removed
from the right-of-way within five (5) days. Any property left over five (5)
days may be removed and stored for up to thirty (30) days. Those properties
left unclaimed will be disposed of as unclaimed property. In the event that
abandoned or inoperative property constitutes an immediate threat to the public
health and safety as determined by the city manager or designee, the property
may be removed immediately and stored for up to thirty (30) days and thereafter
disposed of as unclaimed property. Notice of such immediate removal shall be
provided in writing by mail to the permittee at permittee's address as shown on
the permit application.
   C.   Cost to remedy. Whenever it is necessary for the director to remedy any
defect in any work permitted under this chapter or remove any abandoned
property, all costs incurred by the city in remedying such shall be deducted
from the permittee's deposit, and the balance, if any, remaining after the
deduction shall be returned to the permittee; provided, that if the deposit is
insufficient to cover the cost of the work, the permittee shall be liable to
reimburse the city for such cost in excess of the amount of the deposit, which
shall be due and payable upon the permittee being furnished with a written
statement of the amount due.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 23, 2021: Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.120 Permittee's liability.
   Each permittee is solely responsible for any damage or liability occurring
by reason of anything done or omitted to be done by the permittee or
permittee's agent, employee, servant, or subcontractor; and each permittee
shall indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers, agents, employees, or
servants from any and all loss and liability, including cost of defense and
attorney fees, resulting from any claims made by reason of or in connection
with any work done under the authority of or as a result of any permit issued
under this chapter. The permittee shall maintain an insurance policy, naming
the city as additionally insured and in an amount as established by the city.
The insurance policy shall state that the carrier shall notify the city thirty
(30) days prior to canceling the policy for any reason. Encroachments built to
approved city standards shall not require insurance coverage following
satisfactory completion of the improvement as determined by the director and
acceptance by the city, with the exception of permanent encroachments.
Insurance for minor construction encroachments and other encroachments may be
waived by the director. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 30 (part), 2025; Ord. O- 2021-003, §
24, 2021: Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.130 Special encroachment concerns.
   A.   Any encroachment which will limit the amount of sidewalk available for
pedestrians shall further be reviewed to meet concerns for pedestrian safety
and to ensure adequate area for pedestrian passage. In residential areas a
minimum of four (4) feet of sidewalk shall be clear for pedestrian passage
unless waived by the director. In areas with sidewalks subject to high
pedestrian activity as determined by the director, the width of the sidewalk
which may be blocked by an encroachment shall be as determined by the director.
   B.   Encroachments shall not be physically in contact with street furniture
or street trees.
   C.   Encroachments shall not restrict pedestrian access to parked vehicles,
to buses in bus loading zones, or to access points of abutting property.
   D.   Encroachments shall not be allowed which in the opinion of the director
constitute a hazard to vehicles or pedestrians.
   E.   All encroachments which provide a public service such as vending
machines shall have plainly posted on their face the name and phone number of
the party responsible for maintenance and operation. Newsracks that encroach
upon public property shall comply with Chapter 12.10 of this Code.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 30 (part), 2025; Ord. O- 2021-003, § 25, 2021: Ord. 98-03 §
1 (part), 1998)   
12.32.140 Sidewalk cafes/Sidewalk sales.
   A.   The director may approve issuance of an encroachment permit for
sidewalk cafes subject to the following conditions and limitations:
      1.   Applicants must possess a valid city business license and any
necessary county health permits;
      2.   The use is proper under the city's land use regulations;
      3.   The applicant shall submit a site plan indicating the location of
the operation, relative to surrounding buildings, parking lots and public
rights-of-way, as well as such other information deemed necessary by the
director;
      4.   Each permit shall expressly provide that any personal property
placed upon the sidewalk pursuant to the permit shall extend no further along
the sidewalk than the exterior limits of the merchant's place of business;
      5.   Each permit shall expressly state, and the permittee shall agree,
that in all cases a minimum sidewalk width of five (5) feet shall be kept clear
of any obstruction at all times;
      6.   The permit shall automatically terminate at the relocation, closure,
or sale of business;
      7.   Outdoor preparation of food and bussing facilities are prohibited;
      8.   The hours of operation of the sidewalk cafe shall be defined in the
permit;
      9.   All furniture and fixtures, including tables, chairs, umbrellas, and
planters, shall be movable. Tables and chairs must be fixed to the sidewalk in
such fashion that they cannot be moved except by the permittee for the purposes
of cleaning, storing or removal as directed by the city. It is preferable that
the tables and chairs be a single connected unit. The director must approve the
specific table and chair unit proposed to be used by the permittee. Umbrellas
must be secured with a minimum base of not less than sixty (60) pounds and
shall not encroach into the unobstructed minimum sidewalk area;
      10.   All furniture used in the operations of the sidewalk cafe shall be
removed from the sidewalk and stored indoors whenever the cafe is not in
operation;
      11.   Trash and refuse storage shall not be permitted within the right-
of-way and the permittee shall maintain the encroachment area and remove all
trash and litter as they accumulate;
      12.   Any additional conditions the director deems necessary or
appropriate.
   B.   An encroachment permit for a sidewalk cafe may be approved for a
maximum period of one (1) year. Thereafter, the director may authorize one-year
extensions of the permit. The director may request from the city council a
public hearing if, in the director's opinion, circumstances warrant additional
or revised conditions or revocation of the permit.
   C.   Operation of sidewalk cafes shall comply with provisions of the
ordinance codified in this chapter and shall be prohibited during repairs or
emergencies occurring in the area. The city may also prohibit operation of the
sidewalk cafe at any time due to actual problems in the use of the public
right-of-way area. To the extent possible, the permittee shall be given prior
written notice, but failure to give such notice shall not affect the right of
the city to prohibit the cafe's operation at any particular time.
   D.   As a condition for any encroachment permit for a sidewalk cafe,
permittee shall comply with the provisions of Section
12.32.120 of this chapter. In addition to the requirements of Section
12.32.120, the insurance policy shall be in a form, with minimum limits of
insurance and with an insurer satisfactory to the city manager or to his or her
designee and shall be evidenced by an original endorsement effecting the
required coverage and specifying the required thirty-day cancellation notice.
   E.   Permits for sidewalk sales which encroach on public property or right-
of-way and conditions for the operation thereof shall be as set forth in
Section
17.121.140 of this code. (Ord. O- 2021-003, § 26, 2021: Ord. 98-04 §§ 6—8,
1998; Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.150 Newsracks.
   A.   The director may approve issuance of an encroachment permit for
newsracks permitted pursuant to
Chapter 12.10 of this Code.
   B.   Placement of newsracks on the Pier and on lateral piers, boardwalks,
and promenades along the beach where access for pedestrians and emergency
vehicles is limited to the termini of these structures or to limited-access
stairs to the beach and where there is unsheltered exposure to wind and weather
constitutes an unreasonable interference to the flow of pedestrians and
emergency response vehicles, constituting a significant risk to the health and
safety of the public. Placement of newsracks on the Pier and on lateral piers,
boardwalks and promenades along the beach is, therefore, prohibited.
(Ord. O-2025-002 § 31, 2025; Ord. O-2021-005 § 3, 2021: Ord. O-2021-003, § 27,
2021: Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
12.32.160 Special events.
   Procedures governing the issuance of permits for special events, as defined
in Section
12.16.010 of this code, which encroach on public property or right-of-way shall
be as established pursuant to Section
12.16.020 of this code. (Ord. 98-03 § 1 (part), 1998)
Chapter 12.36
PAVEMENT CUT MORATORIUM
12.36.010 Purpose.
   A.   The purpose of the pavement cut moratorium in this chapter is to
protect the city's investment in its infrastructure; and to preserve the life
of streets to provide an improved driving surface and a more pleasing
appearance to roadway surfaces that have undergone utility work.
   B.   No entity or organization shall be exempt from the requirements of this
chapter including, but not limited to, utility companies, state agencies,
federal agencies, school districts, and private developers.
(Ord. O-2018-003 § 1 (part), 2018)
12.36.020 Definitions.
   The following definitions are applicable within this chapter:
   "Public right-of-way" means the area in, upon, above, beneath, or across any
public street, parking lot, other city-owned parcels or easements, including
but not limited to any highway, street, lane, court, alley, boulevard,
sidewalk, median, parkway, parking lot, or easement reserved by or dedicated to
the city for public use.
   "Excavate" or "excavation" means any cutting, digging, potholing or
otherwise disturbing the street surface within the right-of-way to access or
install a utility line or any related facility or for other reasons. All such
excavations shall require an encroachment permit issued in accordance with
Chapter 12.32 of this Code.
   "Public works director" means the public works director or designee.
   "Permit" means written authorization from the public works director to
excavate, encroach upon, or obstruct a public right-of-way.
   "Roadway" means any public street, including but not limited to any highway,
street, lane, court, alley, boulevard, median, parkway, parking lot, or
easement reserved by or dedicated to the city for vehicular, pedestrian, or
equestrian travel.
   "Completion date" means the date the notice of completion was adopted by the
city council for the completion of roadway construction, resurfacing
operations, or maintenance. For streets paved as public improvements for a
private development, this date shall be the date the notice of completion for
the development was adopted by the city council; for public improvements for
which a notice of completion was not adopted by the city council, this date
shall be the actual date of completion of the work. For roadway resurfacing
projects spanning more than one calendar year, this date shall be the actual
date that work was completed for the entirety of a given roadway, as determined
by the public works director. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 32 (part), 2025; Ord. O-2018-
003 § 1 (part), 2018)
12.36.030 Moratorium, exceptions.
   A.   Except as set forth in subsection B. of this section or Section
12.36.040 of this Code, permission to excavate in roadways shall not be granted
for five (5) years after the completion date of roadway construction or
maintenance, including but not limited to an overlay, chip seal, slurry seal
coatings, micro paving, or other maintenance of the roadway surface. Utilities
shall plan well enough in advance to determine alternate methods for making
necessary repairs to avoid excavating in newly resurfaced roadways.
   B.   Exceptions to the above moratorium in the form of an excavation waiver
as described in Section
12.36.040 of this Code may be permitted in the following situations at the
discretion of the public works director:
   1.   Emergencies which endanger life, property or public health and safety.
   2.   Interruption of essential utility service.
   3.   Work that is mandated by city, state, or federal legislation.
   4.   Unforeseen circumstances where the financial burden outweighs the
benefit to the roadway infrastructure.
   5.    Other situations deemed by the public works director to be in the best
interest of the general public. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 32 (part), 2025; Ord. O-
2018-003 § 1 (part), 2018)
12.36.040 Excavation waiver.
   A.   To excavate within a roadway within five (5) years of the completion
date, a waiver must be obtained. To request a waiver, the applicant must submit
a written request to the public works director. The request must include:
   1.   The location of the excavation.
   2.   Description of the work to be performed.
   3.   A statement from the applicant setting forth good cause for why the
work was not performed before the roadway was resurfaced.
   4.   A statement from the applicant setting forth good cause for why the
work cannot be deferred until after the five (5) year period.
   5.   A statement from the applicant setting forth good cause for why the
work cannot be performed at another location.
   B.   In the event the waiver is granted under subsection A., any excavation
in the roadway shall be repaired with full-lane paving on the street as
follows:
   1.   Overlaid or reconstructed roadway: All lanes that are affected shall be
ground down one-and-a-half (1.5) inches and paved with one-and-a-half (1.5)
inches of similar asphalt concrete material as the previous treatment to the
satisfaction of the public works director. Some roadways may require rubberized
asphalt or other materials.
   2.   Slurry sealed, chip sealed, or micro-surfaced streets: All lanes that
are affected shall be resurfaced to the satisfaction of the public works
director with a treatment similar to what was previously utilized.
   3.   For trenches perpendicular to the curb face, the trench shall be
resurfaced for the entire trench width plus ten (10) feet on each side of the
trench (i.e. twenty (20) feet plus the width of the trench) along the entire
length of the impacted lane or lanes. For trenches parallel to the curb face,
the entire lane shall be resurfaced along the entire length of the trench plus
ten (10) feet on each end (i.e. twenty (20) feet plus the length of the
trench).
   4.   Exception: Full-lane width restoration shall not be required during a
curb and gutter restoration in which the city has exempted the contractor from
removing and replacing the required eighteen (18) inches of asphalt paving from
the edge of gutter. City staff will provide the waiver following an inspection
determining the pavement cut is smooth and straight along the gutter lip and
existing asphalt.
   C.   Exceptions to Subsection B. may be permitted at the discretion of the
public works director to repair existing utilities, not associated with a
construction project in the following cases:
   1.   Emergencies which endanger life, property or public health and safety.
   2.   Interruption of essential utility service.
   3.   Unforeseen circumstances where the financial burden outweighs the
benefit to the roadway infrastructure.
   4.   Other situations deemed by the public works director to be in the best
interest of the general public. (Ord. O-2025-002 § 32 (part), 2025; Ord. O-
2021-003, § 28, 2021: Ord. O- 2018-009, 2018: Ord. O-2018-003 § 1 (part), 2018)
Title 13 PUBLIC SERVICES
Chapter 13.04 UTILITY SERVICES GENERALLY
13.04.010 Utility services outside city limits.
   A.   Except as approved by resolution of the city council, the city will not
hereafter provide, or authorize the provision of, city utility services for
private purposes or use outside the city limits. Any such service heretofore
provided shall remain in effect so long as all conditions of service, including
prompt payment therefor, are fully complied with, but no such prior service to
any parcel shall be: (1) increased or expanded; or (2) extended to serve any
other property or person, except as approved by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection A of this section, it is unlawful for
any person to obtain, connect to, or extend any city utility service for
private purposes or use outside of the city limits, including, without
limitation, the placement of pipes or hoses across the city limits or the
transportation by vehicle of city water across the city limits.
   C.   If, after one citation for violation of subsection B of this section,
any person or vehicle is again involved in a violation of said section, the
chief of police is authorized, without further notice, to disconnect, sever, or
otherwise terminate said illegal service connection, or to deny access to city
streets for any such vehicle. (Ord. 97-06 § 2,1997: prior code § 3.03.010)
Chapter 13.08 WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
Article I. Cross-connections
13.08.010 Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is:
   A.   To protect the public water supply against actual or potential cross-
connections by isolating within the premises contamination or pollution that
may occur because of some undiscovered or unauthorized cross-connection on the
premises;
   B.   To eliminate existing connections between drinking water systems and
other sources of water that are not approved as safe and potable for human
consumption;
   C.   To eliminate cross-connections between drinking water systems and other
sources of water or process water used for any purpose whatsoever which
jeopardize the safety of the drinking water supply;
   D.   To prevent the making of cross-connections in the future;
   E.   To encourage the exclusive use of public sources of water supply;
   F.   To protect the drinking water supply within the premises where plumbing
defects or cross-connections may endanger the drinking water supply available
on the premises.
   G.   It is the intent of this chapter to recognize that there are varying
degrees of hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of protection
should be commensurate with the degree of hazard. (Prior code § 13.08.010)
13.08.020 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article the following words and phrases are defined,
and shall be construed as set out in this section, unless it shall be apparent
from the context that they have a different meaning:
   "Air-gap separation" means a physical break between a supply pipe and a
receiving vessel. The air-gap shall be at least double the diameter of the
supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, in no case
less than one inch.
   "Approved check valve" means a check valve meeting the specifications and
approval of a recognized, approved testing agency for backflow prevention
devices.
   "Approved double check valve assembly" means an assembly of at least two
independently acting approved check valves including tightly closing shutoff
valves on each side of the check valve assembly and suitable leak detector
drains plus connections available for testing the watertightness of each valve.
The entire assembly shall be made in the factory of the manufacturer and shall
meet the specifications and approval of a recognized, approved testing agency
for backflow prevention devices. To be approved, these devices must be readily
accessible for maintenance testing.
   "Approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device" means a
device approved by a recognized and approved testing agency for backflow
prevention devices. The entire assembly shall be made in the factory of the
manufacturer and shall incorporate two or more check valves and an
automatically differential relief valve located between the two checks, two
shutoff valves, and equipped with necessary appurtenances for testing. The
device shall operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two check
valves less than the pressure on the public supply side of the device. At
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between check valves shall be less than
the supplied pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve shall operate to maintain this reduced pressure by
discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet pressure is two pounds per square
inch or less, the relief valve shall open to the atmosphere, thereby providing
an air-gap in the device. To be approved these devices must be readily
accessible for maintenance and testing and installed in a location where no
part of the valve shall be submerged.
   "Approved water supply" means any water supply approved by, or under the
supervision of a public health agency of the state or the county.
   "Auxiliary water supply" means any water supply on or available to the
premises other than the approved public potable water supply. These auxiliary
waters may include, but not be limited to, water from another purveyor's public
potable water supply or any natural source such as a well, spring, river,
stream, harbor, etc., or "used water" or "industrial fluids."
   "Consumer" means the owner of a premises having a service from a potable
water system.
   "Contamination" means an impairment of the quality of the water to a degree
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
   "Cross-connection" or "cross-connected," as used in these regulations, means
any real or potential connection between any part of a public water system or
other water system supplying potable water to members of the public and any
auxiliary water supply or any source or system containing water or any
substance that is not or cannot be approved as safe, wholesome, and potable for
human consumption.
   "Department" means the health department of the county.
   "Health hazard" means an actual or potential threat of contamination of a
physical or toxic nature to the public potable water system to such a degree of
intensity that there would be a danger to health.
   "Industrial fluids" means any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional or plumbing hazard if
introduced into the water supply. This may include, but not be limited to
polluted or contaminated used waters; all types of processed waters and "used
waters" originating from the public potable water system which may deteriorate
in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; acids and alkalis; circulating
cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower and/or cooling waters that
are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with toxic substances;
contaminated natural waters such as from wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays,
harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems, etc.; oil, gases, glycerine,
paraffins, caustic and acid solutions, and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other processes or for fire-fighting purposes.
   "Plumbing hazard" means a plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer's
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air-gap separation or other device. "Plumbing hazard" includes but is not
limited to cross-connections to toilets, sinks, lavatories, wash trays,
domestic washing machines and lawn sprinkling systems.
   "Pollution" means an impairment of the quality of the water to a degree
which does not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does
adversely affect such waters for domestic use.
   "Pollution hazard" means an actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the public water system or the potability of the public water
supply, but which would not constitute a health or system hazard, as defined.
   "Purveyor" means any person, corporation, public utility, municipality,
district or other agency or institution furnishing or supplying water for
domestic purposes.
   "Service connection" means the terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system, i.e., where the water purveyor loses jurisdiction
and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the consumer's
water system. If a meter is installed, then the service connection shall mean
the downstream end of the meter. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from
the service line ahead of any meter or backflow prevention device located at
the point of delivery to the consumer's water system.
   "System hazard" means an actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system.
   "Water supervisor" means the consumer or a person on the premises appointed
by the consumer who is charged by the consumer with the responsibility to the
consumer of maintaining the consumer's water system free from cross-connections
and other sanitary defects, as required by regulations and laws. A certified
backflow prevention device tester may not act as a water supervisor unless he
is a full-time employee of the consumer, and has the day-to-day responsibility
for the installation and use of pipelines and equipment on the premises and for
the avoidance of cross-connections. (Prior code § 13.08.020)
13.08.030 Consumer responsibility.
   Consumers shall be responsible for the installation and use of pipelines and
equipment for the avoidance of cross-connections, compliance with the
provisions of this article and for reporting to the department any changes in
water usage. In the event of any cross-connection existing or occurring on or
within the premises, the department shall be immediately notified by the
consumer so that appropriate corrective measures may be taken. (Prior code §
13.08.030)
13.08.040 Where protection is required.
   A.   Each service connection from the public water system for supplying
water to premises having an auxiliary water supply shall be protected against
backflow of water from the premises into the public water system.
   B.   Each service connection from the public water system for supplying
water to premises on which any substance is or may be handled in such a fashion
as to permit entry into the water system shall be protected against backflow of
the substance from the premises into the public system. This shall include the
handling of processed waters, and waters originating from the public water
supply system which have been subject to deterioration in sanitary quality.
   C.   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed on the service
connection to any premises that have cross-connections. It shall be the
responsibility of the consumer to provide, test, and maintain protective
devices as required. (Prior code § 13.08.040)
13.08.050 Protection—Devices required.
   The protective device required shall depend on the degree of hazard. In
determining the degree of hazard and the type of backflow prevention to be
required, the following criteria shall be used:
   A.   An air-gap separation shall be used where there is a health hazard. The
air-gap shall be located as close as practicable to the meter and all piping
between the meter and the receiving tank shall be entirely visible. If these
conditions cannot reasonably be met, the public water supply shall be protected
with an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device,
providing the alternative is acceptable to the department.
   B.   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be used where there is a system hazard or a plumbing
hazard or any combination of the above. If an air-gap separation is used, the
air-gap shall be located as close as practicable to the meter and all piping
between the meter and receiving tank shall be entirely visible. Where there is
no meter the protective device shall be located on the service connection
pipeline at a point on the consumer's property nearest the public water supply
pipeline.
   C.   In all other cases of cross-connection, there shall be required a
double check valve assembly.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, at the service
connection to any sewage treatment plant, sewage pumping station, or storm
water pumping station, the public water supply shall be protected by an air-gap
separation. The air-gap shall be located as close as practicable to the meter
and all piping between the meter and receiving tank shall be entirely visible.
If these conditions cannot be reasonably met, the public water supply shall be
protected with an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device, providing this alternative is acceptable to the department. Final
decision in this matter shall rest with the State Department of Public Health.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, on any premises
where the county health department determines that a special hazard exists, the
public water supply shall be protected by such approved backflow prevention
devices as designated by the department. (Prior code § 13.08.050)
13.08.060 Frequency of inspection.
   It shall be the duty of the consumer on any premises on which backflow
protective devices are installed to have competent inspections made at least
once a year or more often in those instances where successive inspections
indicate defective operation. These devices shall be repaired, overhauled, or
replaced at the expense of the water user whenever they are found to be
defective. Records of such tests, repairs, and overhaul shall be kept and
submitted to the department. (Prior code § 13.08.060)
13.08.070 Inspector—Qualification and certification.
   A.   No person shall be qualified to inspect and maintain backflow
prevention devices unless his qualifications have been established to the
satisfaction of the department as required in this section. To determine the
qualifications of any person to inspect and maintain backflow prevention
devices, the department shall have the authority to conduct examinations as
necessary. Upon successful completion of such examination and such training as
the department shall prescribe, the person so examined shall receive from the
department a "Certificate of Competence." Any limitations or conditions imposed
by the department on the examinee in the inspection and maintenance of backflow
prevention devices shall be stated upon the face of said certificate issued to
the examinee. The department shall make available to consumers a list of
persons qualified to inspect and maintain backflow prevention devices. Every
person, after receiving a "Certificate of Competence" from the department,
shall be issued such identification as the department shall deem appropriate;
and such identification shall be kept in the immediate possession of every
person holding a certificate of competence while said person is inspecting or
maintaining any backflow prevention device in the county.
   B.   Every person desiring to qualify to inspect or maintain backflow
prevention devices shall make application to the department. At the time of
making application, every person shall pay a fee of ten dollars, which fee
shall not be refundable. Such fee shall cover the expense of the department in
processing the applications, certificate of competence, and any documents of
identification required by the department.
   C.   Every person holding a certificate of competence issued by the
department under the provisions of this section shall be required to renew such
certificate every three years. The requirements for reexamination may be waived
at the discretion of the department.
   D.   Every person receiving a certificate of competence under the provisions
of this section shall be responsible for the competency and accuracy of all
inspections and maintenance performed by him on any backflow prevention device.
   E.   Any person issued a certificate of competence who violates or fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this article or willingly falsifies
inspection or maintenance reports submitted to the department shall, in
addition to the penalties prescribed in Section
13.08.120, have said certificate immediately revoked, and shall not be
considered for recertification for a period of two years. (Prior code §
13.08.070)
13.08.080 Booster pump regulation.
   When it becomes necessary, because of low pressure or special operating
conditions, to install a booster pump on the service of any premises, such pump
shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff switch designed to shut off the
pump when the pressure on the inlet side is twenty-five P.S.I.G. or lower. It
shall be the duty of the consumer to maintain the cutoff device in proper
working order, and to certify to the department at least once a year that the
device is operable. (Prior code § 13.08.080)
13.08.090 Protection of water system within premises.
   A.   Whenever the department determines that drinking water systems on a
premises cannot be protected against entry of water from any piping system,
equipment or other source not safe or potable for human use, an entirely
separate drinking water system shall be installed to supply water at convenient
points.
   B.   Water systems for fighting fire, derived from a supply that cannot be
approved as safe or potable for human use shall, wherever practicable, be kept
wholly separate from drinking water pipelines and equipment. In cases where the
domestic water system is used for both drinking and fire fighting purposes,
approved backflow prevention devices shall be installed to protect such
individual drinking water lines as are not used for fire fighting purposes. The
users of such drinking water systems shall be further protected as prescribed
by the state and county health departments.
   C.   Potable water pipelines connected to equipment for industrial processes
or operations shall be disconnected therefrom if practicable. Where
disconnection is not practicable, an approved backflow prevention device, the
type or kind depending on the degree of hazard, shall be located in the
feedline to the process piping or equipment, beyond the last point from which
drinking water may be taken. In the event the particular processed liquid is
especially corrosive or apt to prevent reliable action of the backflow
prevention device, an air-gap separation shall be provided. These devices shall
be repaired, overhauled or replaced whenever they are found to be defective.
Records of tests, repairs, and replacement shall be kept and submitted to the
department.
   D.   Sewage pumps and stormwater pumps shall not have priming connections
directly off any drinking water systems, unless the drinking water system is
protected by an air-gap and no connection shall exist between the drinking
water system and any other piping, equipment or tank in any sewage treatment
plant, sewage pumping station, or stormwater pumping station.
   E.   Backflow protection by an approved backflow protection device operating
under the reduced pressure principle shall be provided on each drinking water
outlet used for supplying ships or other vessels at piers or waterfronts. These
devices must be located where they will prevent the return of water from any
ship or vessel into another adjacent ship or vessel or into the public water
system.
   F.   Where the premises contain dual or multiple water systems and piping,
the exposed portions of pipelines shall be painted, banded or marked at
sufficient intervals to distinguish clearly which water is safe for drinking
purposes and which is not safe. All outlets from other than approved water
supply systems shall be posted as being unsafe for drinking purposes. All
outlets intended for drinking purposes shall be plainly marked to indicate that
fact. (Prior code § 13.08.090)
13.08.100 Water supervisor—Requirements.
   At each premises where it is necessary, in the opinion of the department, a
water supervisor shall be designated. (Prior code § 13.08.100)
13.08.110 Penalties for noncompliance.
   The water surveyor shall have the authority to immediately discontinue
service to any premises where cross-connections or other hazards to the water
system are found to exist, and shall not again render service to said premises
until such conditions are eliminated in accordance with this article. Any
consumer who wilfully violates any of the provisions of this article or alters,
or bypasses or renders inoperative any backflow prevention device installed
under the provisions of this chapter shall, in addition to immediate
discontinuance of water service, be subject to penalties prescribed in Section
13.08.120. Service shall not again be rendered until such violation or
noncompliance has been corrected. (Prior code § 13.08.110)
13.08.115 Unauthorized connections or disconnections.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to make any connection to the domestic water
system of the City of Pismo Beach for the purpose of supplying water to any
property, unless the same be made through a meter installed by and under the
supervision of the public works department of the city, and unless the
connection is made directly with the water main in front of the property so
connected.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to terminate, temporarily stop, modify the flow
of, or otherwise interfere with the delivery of water via the city's water
system, or any lawful connection thereto, except with the advance authorization
of the public works department of the city. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this title, in the case of leaks or other accidents damaging individual
service lines or other apparatus connected with the water system, or for
replacement or repair of water fixtures within a service location, plumbers or
other persons may shut off the water at the water meter for an individual
service location to make necessary repairs and turn on the water upon
completion of such repairs without obtaining authorization.
   C.   The public works department may permit use of water from fire hydrants
by contractors of public works or private construction, or by public utilities
that are engaged in work on public streets. A charge shall be paid for use of
water from fire hydrants which shall be set by the city council by resolution.
(Ord. O-2021-003, § 29, 2021)
13.08.120 Additional penalties for noncompliance.
   No person shall violate any provisions, or fail to comply with any of the
requirements of this article. Any person violating any of the provisions or
failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this article shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the
provisions of this article shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not
exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each such person
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion
of which any violation of any provision of this article is committed,
continued, or permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.
(Prior code § 13.08.120)
Article II. Water Rates
13.08.130 Necessity.
   The city owns and operates a city water system as a proprietary function and
for public and private purposes, from which it provides the service and
facilities of a domestic water and fire protection system for the city and
adjacent areas, and it is necessary in the proper performance of the functions
of the city to maintain and operate said facilities from water service. (Ord.
97-03 § 2 (part), 1997; Ord. 96-13 § 1 (part), 1996: prior code § 13.04.010)
13.08.140 Charges.
   For each customer of the city water system and/or parcel for which the water
system is available:
   A.   Customers within the city shall pay to the city, bimonthly or as
otherwise prescribed by the city council via resolution, such rates and charges
as the council may from time to time prescribe by resolution.
   B.   Customers outside the city shall pay to the city, bimonthly or as
otherwise prescribed by the city council via resolution, such rates and charges
as the council may from time to time prescribe by resolution.
   C.   "Customer" means and refers to the owner or other occupant of a
property connected to the water system and served by a single meter who desires
to receive water service. Customer shall complete an application with the city
finance department and shall pay all fees and deposits as may be adopted from
time to time by resolution of the city council.
   D.   "User" means and refers to the owner of the property whereby a paying
unit or units are connected to the water system and are served by a single
meter. Every user desiring to become a consumer of water from the city water
system shall pay to the city such sum as the council may from time to time
prescribe by resolution for which the city will provide the user's property
with a three-fourths-inch diameter water service and meter box. Persons
desiring services in excess of three-fourths-inch diameter capacity shall be
required to pay to the city such additional sums as the council may from time
to time prescribe by resolution, plus the actual cost of such installation.
(Ord. 97-03 § 2 (part), 1997; Ord. 96-17 § 1, 1996; Ord. 96-13 § 1 (part),
1996; prior code § 13.04.020)
13.08.150 Fire plug charges.
   Where a fire plug or fire plugs are installed in a water system outside of
the city, the city shall charge the governmental unit in which said fire plug
or fire plugs are installed such fee as the council may from time to time
prescribe by resolution. (Prior code § 13.04.030)
13.08.160 Deposits.
   A water deposit of such amount as the council may from time to time
prescribe by resolution shall be collected and be returnable upon the user
being nondelinquent for a period of twelve consecutive months. Upon requesting
disconnection, any balance shall be returned. (Prior code § 13.04.040)
13.08.170 Finance director—Duties.
   The finance director of his designated representatives shall compute,
prepare and mail water billings to the user (property owner), on a bimonthly
basis, or as otherwise prescribed by the city council via resolution, make and
deposit collections, maintain proper books of account, and do whatever else is
necessary to set up and maintain an efficient and economical bookkeeping
system, and perform any other duties now or hereafter prescribed by the
council. (Prior code § 13.04.050)
13.08.180 Rate revisions.
   The council may from time to time by resolution amend, revise or adopt new
water rates on account of water charges, fire plug charges, water deposits and/
or penalties on delinquencies as may in their opinion be necessary and in the
best interests of the city. (Prior code § 13.04.060)
13.08.190 Rates—Delinquencies.
   A.   All non-residential bills not collected within fifteen (15) days of
billing shall be delinquent, and a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the bill or
amount due, plus interest at eight percent (8%) per year, shall accrue for the
period of said nonpayment and be collected as a part of the principal amount
thereof. If not paid within thirty (30) days of billing, the city shall turn
off the water service and a service charge as the city council may from time to
time prescribe by resolution, shall be assessed.
   B.   All residential bills not collected within fifteen (15) days of billing
shall be delinquent, and a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the bill or amount
due, plus interest at eight percent (8%) per year, shall accrue for the period
of said nonpayment and be collected as a part of the principal amount thereof.
If not paid within sixty (60) days of billing, prior to disconnection of water
service or imposition of service charges and penalties, the city shall follow
the city's policy on discontinuation of residential service for nonpayment, as
amended from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. O-2020- 002,
§ 1, 2020: Prior code § 13.04.070)
13.08.200 Special assessment lien—Designated.
   The water charges set forth in this chapter constitute special assessments,
and if unpaid are made a lien upon the user's (property owner's) parcel or
parcels for which said water charges remain unpaid, such parcel or parcels
being the property owners' real property within the city as reflected on the
assessment roll of the county assessor's records within the county. (Prior code
§ 13.04.080)
13.08.210 Special assessment lien—Collection procedure.
   The following procedures shall be followed with regard to the collection of
the special assessment liens as prescribed in Section
13.08.200:
   A.   The finance director shall, at any time deemed necessary by the city
council to enforce the payment of the unpaid water charges upon any parcel or
parcels, notify the owner or owners of said parcel or parcels by registered
mail of the city council's intent to enforce the payment and notify the owner
or owners of a hearing before the city council on the question of the amount
unpaid, and whether or not payment of said amount should be enforced by
foreclosure and sale under the lien provided.
   B.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the city council shall file a report
determining the amount due and determining whether foreclosure and sale under
the lien shall be undertaken.
   C.   A certified copy of the report shall be filed with the board of
supervisors and with the county auditor, respectively, within thirty days after
the receipt thereof by the finance director. The descriptions of the parcels
reported shall be those used for the same parcels on the county assessor's map
book for the current year.
   D.   The amount of the assessment shall be collected at the time and in the
manner of ordinary municipal taxes. If delinquent, the amount is subject to the
same penalties and procedure of foreclosure and sale provided for ordinary
municipal taxes. (Prior code § 13.04.090)
13.08.220 Rate violations—Penalties.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or tamper with any meter or turn
off or connect or tamper with any water service or to bypass any meter. Any
person violating any provision of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars, or imprisonment of not more than ten days, or by both such
fine or imprisonment. (Prior code § 13.04.100)
Article III. Water Service Tax
13.08.300 Authority and levy of special tax.
   Pursuant to the authority of Article XI, Section 7 of the California
Constitution, Government Code Sections 37100.5 and 53722, and Section 2(c) of
Article XIII C of the California Constitution and subject to two-thirds voter
approval pursuant to Section 2(c) of Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution, there is levied a special tax within the city upon the privilege
of use, or having available the use, of water services. This tax shall be known
as the "water service tax." The tax shall take effect and commence on July 1,
1997. (Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part), 1997)
13.08.310 Purpose of special tax.
   The purpose of the water service tax is to generate sufficient revenue to
pay the fixed costs for providing water through the State Water Project and
Lopez Project by taxing the privilege of using, or having available the use of,
water services. The tax shall be levied proportionally to the extent of the
estimated use or availability of water service. The water service tax is not an
ad valorem tax based on the value of property. (Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part), 1997)
13.08.320 Definitions.
   The following definitions shall govern the construction of this article:
   "EDU" is defined as an equivalent dwelling unit. The single-family residence
has been designated as the basic unit for calculation of the special tax, with
other land use parcels receiving varying levels of proportionate tax based on
parcel usage and size. One EDU represents an equivalency factor relative to a
single family residential parcel.
   "Engineer's report" is defined as the engineer's report prepared to analyze
and make a recommendation on the most equitable method of levying this tax.
This report is dated March 4, 1997, and has been prepared by North Coast
Engineering, entitled "City of Pismo Beach, Special Tax for State Water and
Water Supplied Through Lake Lopez Water Supply Facilities, Engineer's Report."
   "Fixed costs" is defined as those costs which the city pays for supplying
water that are not based on the quantity of water actually delivered.
   "Improved property" is defined as all parcels of real property within the
city with improvements valued over one thousand dollars on the property
according to the latest assessor's tax roll as of March 1st of each year.
   "Lopez Project" is defined as the water supply project by which water is
delivered to the city from Lopez Lake and the city is obligated to make
payments to San Luis Obispo County Flood Control and Water Conservation
District pursuant to a contract originally dated April 4, 1966, and its various
amendments.
   "Maximum tax rate" is defined as the maximum allowable dollar amount for a
single EDU which may be levied as a tax.
   "Parcel" or "property" is defined as all parcels of real property within the
city as shown on the assessment role of the county of San Luis Obispo assessor
as a parcel to which a separate assessor's parcel number is assigned as of
March 1st for the year preceding the fiscal year in which the tax is to be
levied. It shall also include all other real property for which an assessor's
parcel number has not been assigned, for which water service is made available,
including, but not limited to, rights of way owned by a public agency.
   "State Water Project" is defined as the water supply project by which water
is to be delivered to the city through the state water pipeline. encompassing
all aspects of that system, for which the city is obligated to make payments to
the San Luis Obispo County Flood Control and Water Conservation District
pursuant to two contracts both originally dated May 15, 1992, the first
entitled the "Water Treatment and Local Facilities Agreement," and the second
entitled the "Water Supply Agreement Between San Luis Obispo County Flood
Control and Water Conservation District and City of Pismo Beach."
   "Unimproved parcels" is defined as all parcels or real property in the city
which do not meet the definition of improved parcels. (Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part),
1997)
13.08.330 Formula for levy of the tax.
   The tax shall be levied on water users and property owners on a per parcel
basis. The total tax for each fiscal year for each parcel shall be equal to the
number of EDUs attributed to the parcel times the tax rate established by the
city council for that fiscal year. (Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part), 1997)
13.08.331 Attribution of EDUs per parcel.
   A.   EDUs shall be attributed to parcels of real property within the city
based upon the anticipated water use. Anticipated water use is to be forecast
using the most current information regarding parcels of real property within
the city available as of March 1st of each year.
   1.   Residential parcels shall be attributed EDUs depending upon their
status of improved or unimproved.
   a.   All improved parcels which had permits issued or actual improvements
constructed as of March 1, 1997, shall be attributed with EDUs based upon the
parcel's actual use at that time, regardless of the parcel's development
potential. Improved parcels which do not meet the March 1, 1997, deadline shall
also be taxed based upon actual use, so long as the improvements exceed the
average density for that zone attributed in the engineer's report and/or the
parcel owner executes and records a deed restriction giving up all development
rights beyond that use.
   b.   Unimproved parcels shall be attributed with EDUs based upon the average
potential density for development of the parcel using the size of the parcel
and the current city general plan average density designations, unless there
has been final approval of a subdivision for the property which provides for
the full development of the parcel. EDUs shall be attributed to unimproved
parcels which have finally approved subdivisions providing for their full
development based upon the actual use of the parcel as allowed by the approved
subdivision.
   2.   Commercial parcels, whether improved or unimproved, shall be attributed
EDUs based upon the square footage of the parcel.
   3.   Open space parcels, common areas in condominium developments and
parcels for which irrigation meters are installed will be taxed on the basis of
one EDU per irrigation meter.
   4.   Parcels with mixed uses or other recognized anomalies shall be
attributed EDUs as follows:
   a.   Mixed Commercial and Residential. EDUs will be attributed to these
parcels based upon the commercial calculation plus the appropriate residential
EDU factor, either multifamily or single-family residential.
   b.   Multifamily Residential (Apartments and Condominiums) in Commercial
Zoned Areas. EDUs shall be attributed to these parcels based on the number of
units on the parcel.
   c.   Single-Family Residential Parcels with Multiple Meters. These parcels
shall be attributed one EDU for the single-family residential use and shall be
attributed further EDUs using the multifamily residential factor for each water
meter above the first.
   B.   The number of EDUs attributable to each parcel of real property in the
city has been calculated for the purposes of levying this tax. The specific
method, and rationale, for calculating the number of EDUs per parcel is
presented in detail in the engineer's report. This report is on file in the
office of the city clerk. The engineer used existing, approved studies and
plans to develop the most equitable method of attributing EDUs to each parcel
of real property in the city to accurately forecast anticipated water use of
each parcel.
   C.   Except for in unique or anomalous circumstances as recognized in this
section and/or situations falling under Section
13.08.350 of this article, EDUs shall be attributed to each parcel in the city
based on the following schedule:
Property Type EDU Factor Unit of Measurement
Property Type    EDU Factor Unit of Measurement
Single-Family
Residential
   (Improved)
   R-1        1.00       per parcel
   PR         1.00       per parcel
 
Multifamily
Residential
   (Improved)
   R-2        0.55       per residential unit
   R-3        0.55       per residential unit
   RR         0.55       per residential unit
   MH         0.55       per residential unit
Commercial
    (Improved)
   C-1        1.00       per 6,245 SF
   C-2        1.00       per 6,245 SF
   CM         1.00       per 10,014 SF
   CR         1.00       per 6,675 SF
    
Single-family
Residential
   (Unimproved)
   R-1        1.0        per potential parcel
   PR         1.0        per potential parcel
Multifamily
Residential
   (Unimproved)
   R-2        0.55       per potential residential unit
   R-3        0.55       per potential residential unit
   RR         0.55       per potential residential unit
   MH         0.55       per potential residential unit
Commercial
    (Unimproved)
    C-1      1.00       per 6,245 SF
    C-2      1.00       per 6,245 SF
    CM       1.00       per 10,014 SF
    CR       1.00       per 6,676 SF
Miscellaneous
   Open space 1.00       per irrigation meter
   Landscaping1.00       per irrigation meter
   Common Area1.00       per irrigation meter
   Campgrounds1.00       per equivalent SFR consumption
 
   D.   Each parcel of real property in the city is identified, and EDUs have
been assigned to each parcel, in the "Engineer's Parcel/EDU Table." The
"Engineer's Parcel/EDU Table" shall be updated annually and a copy of the most
current update shall be made available to the public in the city's finance
department. The "Engineer's Parcel/EDU Table" shall also contain the amount of
tax levied on each parcel and shall constitute the official tax roll of the
city for this tax. It shall be updated annually to provide the most current
information as to each parcel within the city.
   E.   For purposes of determining categorization of any particular parcel due
to subsequent changes in zoning or use of a parcel or property, a parcel will
be taxed on the basis of the revised zoning or use as of the effective date of
the zoning or use change. If a new zoning district is created in addition to
those districts identified in subsection C of this section, the EDU for such
zone shall be established by the city engineer using the same methodology as
that used in the engineer's report. Parcels annexed to the city shall also be
subject to the tax upon annexation.
   F.   EDUs are only used in this article as an equivalency factor to
equitably levy the tax. Their use here shall in no way result in vesting future
water or development rights, or rights to access water service, to any
particular property. (Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part), 1997)
13.08.332 Maximum tax rate—Setting the annual tax rate.
   A.   The tax rate per EDU per year shall not exceed one hundred twenty-five
dollars, along with an adjustment for inflation calculated using the Consumer
Price Index. The maximum tax rate represents a ceiling above which the tax
cannot exceed.
   B.   This maximum tax rate shall be adjusted annually by application of the
local Consumer Price Index ("CPI"), as published by the Department of Labor
computed for the first index in March of each year. In no event, however, shall
any one year's CPI adjustment exceed three percent. Consumer Price Index
adjustments to the maximum rate shall not constitute an extension of, increase
of, or imposition of, the tax. Adjustments to the maximum tax rate based upon
the application of the Consumer Price Index shall be cumulative and the right
to adjust the maximum tax rate for inflation is not waived by any decision not
to apply the CPI indexing factor, or any portion thereof, in setting the tax
rate for any year.
   C.   The city council shall set the tax rate for each fiscal year annually
by resolution. In no case, however, shall the tax rate exceed the maximum rate
established by this section without the approval of the voters. Should the city
council fall to set a tax rate in any year for any reason, the tax rate of the
immediately previous fiscal year shall be used and the city manager (or
designee) is authorized to proceed with collection of the tax based upon its
calculation at that previous tax rate.
   D.   No section of this article shall be construed to permit, and the city
council is expressly prohibited from, increasing the tax rate beyond the
maximum rate set forth in this section. (Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part), 1997)
13.08.340 Adjustment in special tax.
   A.   A property owner or water service user subject to the special tax may
apply for an adjustment in the tax pursuant to the standards and procedures as
set forth in this section. The city manager, or the city manager's designee, is
authorized to reduce the mount of the tax imposed under these provisions upon a
showing of objectively verifiable gross inequity. The gross inequity must be
due to the clear inability of the property upon which the fee is imposed to
support the use of the forecast amount of water. The city council may set by
resolution an application and/or appeal fee to be paid by an applicant for an
adjustment.
   B.   Applicants under this section shall present a written application to
the city manager (or designee) for a reduction to the tax imposed under these
provisions due to special circumstances arising to gross inequity. The
application shall set out the grounds for the requested reduction and list in
detail objectively verifiable special circumstances upon which the request for
reduction should be granted. The city manager (or designee) shall provide a
written decision either approving or denying the requested reduction.
   C.   The city manager's (or designee's) decision must be grounded on
objectively verifiable circumstances. Reductions in the special tax may only be
justified on the basis of the following: (1) errors in the information used to
calculate, or errors in calculation of, the tax; and/or (2) the inability to
develop a parcel, or portion thereof, due to city regulations or specific
geographic conditions such that application of the formula for imposition of
the special tax clearly over estimates the amount of potential water use of the
property.
   D.   An applicant for a reduction may appeal the city manager's decision to
the city council, subject to payment of an appeal fee which may be established
by the city council. An appeal must be filed with the city clerk in writing
within ten days of the applicant being notified in writing of the city
manager's decision. If notice of the city manager's decision is mailed, the
applicant must file an appeal within fifteen days from the date of mailing of
the decision. The city clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the city
council within forty-five days of receiving the written appeal. The city
council shall deny the appeal and affirm the decision of the city manager
unless it finds the city manager abused his or her discretion by being
arbitrary and capricious or the decision otherwise violates the law. If the
city council grants the appeal and overrules the decision of the city manager,
it shall make written findings and determinations supporting its decision based
upon the testimony and documents presented to it at the hearing, and shall
adopt its written findings and determination within fourteen days of the close
of the hearing on the matter.
   E.   Any refunds granted under this section shall be distributed within
sixty days of the determination. Refunds shall only be of the principal sum
paid to the city. Interest will not be paid by the city. (Ord. 97-03 § 1
(part), 1997)
13.08.350 Exemptions to special tax.
   The special tax imposed by this article shall be imposed on all taxable
entities, including federal, state, or other public entities, unless otherwise
exempt by paramount law. The city shall be exempt from the special tax since to
levy the tax against itself would be inconsistent with the purpose of the tax.
(Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part), 1997)
13.08.360 Collection of the tax.
   The method of collection of the tax shall be determined by the city council.
Billing and collection of the tax may be through any convenient method
determined by the city council, including, but not limited to, billing with the
water rates as set out in Article II of this chapter (Sections
13.08.130 et seq.) or through posting the tax to the assessment roll of the
county of San Luis Obispo, or any combination thereof. The tax, together with
all penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute a personal obligation owed
to the city by each parcel owner or water service user on the date the tax
becomes due, as well as an obligation of the parcel upon which it is levied.
The tax imposed shall be collected either in the same manner as other charges
and taxes fixed and collected by the county of San Luis Obispo on behalf of the
city or in such other manner, or combination thereof, as determined by the city
council. The tax shall be subject to the same penalties and interest as other
charges and/or taxes collected in the same manner. The tax, together with all
penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien upon the parcel upon
which it is levied until it has been paid. (Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part), 1997)
13.08.370 Use of tax revenues restricted.
   The revenue raised by the tax imposed by this article shall only be used for
the payment of the fixed costs for supplying water through the State Water
Project and the Lopez Water Project, establishment of a reserve fund, and
payment of the costs associated with creation and administration of this
special tax. The revenues from this tax shall be placed in a special fund and
used only for these purposes. The reserve fund shall be established for the
purpose of assuring future state water and Lopez water fixed cost obligations
can be met in the event of unforeseen shortfalls, and shall not exceed twenty-
five percent of the maximum single year revenue requirement. Any unexpended
surplus balance remaining after set-aside of the reserve fund shall be used to
reduce the amount of special tax for subsequent tax years. (Ord. 97-03 § 1
(part), 1997)
13.08.380 Amendment and repeal.
   The city council is empowered to amend the procedural provisions of this
article by three affirmative votes of the members thereof for the purposes of
carrying out the general purposes of this article. In no event, however, may
the city council impose any new tax, or extend or increase any existing tax,
through its procedural revisions to this ordinance. This water service tax may
only be repealed by a two-thirds vote of the citizens of the city voting on the
issue of repeal. (Ord. 97-03 § 1 (part), 1997)
Chapter 13.10 WATER SUPPLY FEE
13.10.010 Short title.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Pismo Beach state water supply fee
ordinance." (Ord. 93-03 § 1 (part), 1993)
13.10.020 Purpose.
   The council declares that the fees required to be paid hereby are
established for the purpose of protecting the public health, safety and general
welfare, and implementing the policies of the general plan, by providing for
the provision of adequate water supply to support orderly development. (Ord.
93-03 § 1 (part), 1993)
13.10.030 Definitions.
   Unless otherwise required by the context, the following definitions shall
govern the construction of this chapter:
   "Accessory dwelling unit" see Section 17.006 (
17.62.020). For purposes of establishing a water supply fee, an accessory
dwelling unit shall be considered equal to one-half of a dwelling unit, as
defined herein.
   "Commercial development" means the development or use of land for any
retail, office, service, commercial or other business purpose.
   "Council" means the city council of the city of Pismo Beach.
   "Development" or "development project" means any project undertaken for the
purpose of development, and includes a project involving the issuance of a
permit for construction or reconstruction, but not a permit to operate.
   "Dwelling unit" means a structure or portion of a structure, which is used
for separate residential occupancy by an individual, a family or a group of
unrelated individuals.
   "Hotel or motel" means any development or use of land for temporary lodging
purposes.
   "Imposition of fees" occurs when they are imposed or levied on a specific
development.
   "Mobilehome" means any mobile or manufactured dwelling subject to the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42
U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq.).
   "Multifamily residential development" means development or use of land for
residential purposes involving more than one dwelling unit in a single
structure.
   "Single-family residential" means development or use of land for residential
purposes involving no more than one dwelling unit in a single structure.
   "Supply fee" means a monetary exaction charged to the applicant in
connection with approval of a development project for the purpose of defraying
all or a part of the cost of water supply related to the development project.
(Ord. O-2018-011 § 1, 2018: Ord. 07-05 § 1 (Exh. A (part)), 2007: Ord. 06-06
(part), 2006: Ord. 03-03 (part), 2003; Ord. 93-03 § 1 (part), 1993)
13.10.040 Fees—Imposition and application.
   A.   This chapter establishes state water supply fees which shall be imposed
on all building permits issued on or after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter for any development project which generates new water
demand, unless retrofitting has been performed in accordance with Ordinance No.
93-04.
   B.   The state water supply fee is established in order to pay for the
capital and fixed operations costs of a new water supply reasonably related to
the needs of new development in the city. At least once every five years, the
council shall review the basis for the impact fees to determine whether the
fees are still reasonably related to the needs of new development.
   C.   In establishing these fees, the council has considered the effects of
the fees with respect to the city's housing needs as established in the housing
element of the general plan. (Ord. 93-03 § 1 (part), 1993)
13.10.050 Fees to be set by resolution.
   From time to time, the council shall, by resolution, set forth the specific
amount of the supply fees and describe the reasonable relationship between the
fees and the development on which they will be imposed. (Ord. 93-03 § 1 (part),
1993)
13.10.060 Payment of fees.
   Except as otherwise provided in Section 6607 of the Government Code, state
water supply fees shall be paid to the city at the time a building permit is
issued. In cases where payment of all or part of the required fee is deferred
at the time of building permit issuance, the director of public works shall
require that the applicant, at the applicant's expense, execute a contract with
the city to pay all deferred impact fees prior to final inspection and/or
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the project. The contract shall
specify the amount of the unpaid fee and a legal description of the property
affected. It shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder and shall
constitute a lien for the payment of the fees, which shall be enforceable
against the successors in interest of the property owner. When impact fees are
paid in full, the city, at the expense of the applicant or property owner,
shall execute a release of any lien securing those impact fees. (Ord. 93-03 § 1
(part), 1993)
13.10.070 Protests.
   Any party subject to the fees established by this chapter may protest the
imposition of those fees by meeting all of the following requirements:
   A.   Tendering any required payment in full or providing satisfactory
avoidance of arrangements to ensure performance of the conditions necessary to
meet the requirements of the imposition of the fee;
   B.   Serving written notice of protest on the city council, which notice
shall contain all of the following information:
   1.   A statement that the required payment is tendered under protest;
   2.   A statement informing the city council of the factual elements of the
dispute and the legal theory forming the basis for the protest;
   C.   Serving the written notice of protest no later than ninety days after
the payment of the fee. The decision of the city council shall be final. (Ord.
93-03 § 1 (part), 1993)
13.10.080 Exemptions.
   The fees imposed under this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Remodeling or alteration of an existing residential building, but only
if the number of dwelling units is not increased or the use changed;
   B.   That portion of a development project consisting of a structure, which
existed before the addition of dwelling units or the enlargement of floor area
in a nonresidential structure;
   C.   A development project consisting of the replacement of a structure
which has been destroyed or demolished and replaced, if a building permit is
issued within two years of the date of demolition or destruction. The water
supply fee shall be imposed only to the extent that the water demand exceeds
that of the old development;
   D.   A development project in the Mattie Road Annexation area, which is
entitled to a portion of the 15.2 AFY per judgment, entered in the case of John
Mandersheid, et al., versus city of Pismo Beach, San Luis Obispo Superior Court
Case No. 67576. (Ord. 07-05 § 1 (Exh. A (part)), 2007: Ord. 06-06 (part), 2006:
Ord. 03-03 (part), 2003: Ord. 93-03 § 1 (part), 1993)
13.10.090 Disposition and use of the fees.
   A.   The director of finance shall establish a separate fund or account for
the state water supply fee and all fees collected by the city shall be
deposited in the fund or account established. Any interest earned on funds
deposited in the fund or account shall be deposited in the fund or account.
   B.   Funds deposited in the account shall be used only to pay for costs
associated with the state water project. (Ord. 93-03 § 1 (part), 1993)
13.10.100 Refunds.
   A.   If fees collected by the city have not been expended or committed for
the intended purpose within five years following their collection, the city
shall either refund those fees as provided in Section 66001 of the Government
Code, or make findings as required by that section to retain the fees.
   B.   The refund provisions of this chapter shall apply only to moneys in
possession of the city and need not be made with respect to any bonds, letters
of credit or other items given to secure payment at a future date. (Ord. 93-03
§ 1 (part), 1993)
Chapter 13.12
PRETREATMENT ORDINANCE
13.12.010   Purpose and policy.
   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly owned
treatment works for the City of Pismo Beach (the city) and enables the city to
comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water
Act (33 United States Code [U.S.C.] Section 1251 et seq.) and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations [CFR]
Part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
   C.   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge from
the publicly owned treatment works;
   E.   To enable the city to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment works.
the chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; provides
for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities; establishes
administrative review procedures; and requires user reporting.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.020   Administration.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the director of public works (director)
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted to or duties imposed upon the director may be delegated by the
director to a duly authorized city employee.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.030   Abbreviations.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
Act - Federal Water Pollution Control Act or Clean Water Act
AWPF - Advanced Water Purification Facility
BMP - Best Management Practice
BMR - Baseline Monitoring Report
BOD - Biochemical Oxygen Demand
C - Celsius
CFR - Code of Federal Regulations
City - City of Pismo Beach
CIU - Categorical Industrial User
COD - Chemical Oxygen Demand
Director - Director of Public Works for the City
EPA - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
F - Fahrenheit
FSE - Food Service Establishment
FOG - Fats, Oils, and/or Grease
gpd - gallons per day
IU - Industrial User
mg/L - milligrams per liter
NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU - Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
O&M - Operations and Maintenance
POTW - Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU - Significant Industrial User
SNC - Significant Noncompliance
SSO - Sanitary Sewer Overflow
SUO - Sewer Use Ordinance
TRC - Technical Review Criteria
TSS - Total Suspended Solids
U.S.C. - United States Code
User - Industrial User
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.040 Definitions.
   Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
   A.   “Act” or “the Act” means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also
known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq.
   B.   “Advanced water purification facility” means facility that treats and
purifies municipal secondary effluent to drinking water standards.
   C.   “Approval authority” means the California Regional Water Quality
Control Board Central Coast Region, or any successor agency.
   D.   “Authorized” or “duly authorized representative of the user” means:
   1.   If the user is a corporation:
   a.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
   b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating
facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions
that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for wastewater discharge permit requirements; and
where authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager
in accordance with corporate procedures.
   2.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner
or proprietor, respectively.
   3.   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
   4.   The individuals described in paragraphs D.1. through D.3., above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the city.
   E.   “Best management practices” or “BMPs” means a schedule of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to implement the requirements of this chapter. BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   F.   “Biochemical oxygen demand” or “BOD” means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures for five days at twenty degrees (20º) C, usually
expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/L).
   G.   “Bypass” means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a treatment facility.
   H.   “Categorical pretreatment standard” or “categorical standard” means any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. Section 1317)
that apply to a specific category of Users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   I.   “Categorical industrial user” means an industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   J.   “Chemical Oxygen Demand” or “COD” means a measure of the oxygen
required to oxidize all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   K.   “City” means the City of Pismo Beach, California.
   L.   “Control authority” means the city.
   M.   “Daily maximum” means the arithmetic average of all effluent samples
for a pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   N.   “Daily maximum limit” means the maximum allowable discharge limit of a
pollutant during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in
units of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course
of the day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a
concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the
pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   O.   “Director of public works” or “director” means the person designated by
the city to supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is charged with
certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter. This term also includes a
duly authorized representative, as designated in writing by the director.
   P.   “Environmental Protection Agency” or “EPA” means the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division
Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said
agency.
   Q.   “Existing source” means any source of discharge that is not a “new
source.”
   R.   “Food solids” means the thickness of the bottom layer of food solids.
   S.   “Grab sample” means a sample that is taken from a waste stream without
regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed
fifteen minutes.
   T.   “Grease interceptor” means a multi-compartment device that is
constructed in different sizes and is generally required to be located,
according to the California Plumbing Code, including any local amendments
thereto, underground between a FOG discharger and the connection to the sewer
system. This device primarily uses gravity to separate FOG from the wastewater
as it moves from one compartment to the next. This device must be cleaned,
maintained, and have the FOG removed and disposed of in a proper manner at
regular intervals to be effective.
   U.   “Grease layer” means the thickness of the top layer of grease.
   V.   “Grease removal device” means any grease interceptor, grease trap or
other mechanism, device, or process, which attaches to, or is applied to,
wastewater plumbing fixtures and lines, the purpose of which is to trap or
collect or treat FOG prior to it being discharged into the sewer system. Grease
removal device may also include any other proven method to reduce FOG subject
to approval of the utilities division/department manager. A grease removal
device is a form of pretreatment and as such is subject to all regulations
pertaining to the installation and maintenance of pretreatment systems as
recognized in this chapter and in the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR
403).
   W.   “Grease trap” means a grease control device that is used to serve
individual fixtures and have limited effect and should only be used in those
cases where the use of a grease interceptor or other grease removal device is
determined to be impossible or impracticable.
   X.   “Indirect discharge” or “discharge” means the introduction of
pollutants into the POTW from any nondomestic source.
   Y.   “Instantaneous limit” means the maximum concentration of a pollutant
allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any
discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow
rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   Z.   “Interference” a discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city's NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   AA.   “Local limit” means specific discharge limits developed and enforced
by the city upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general
and specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   BB.   “Medical waste” means isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood
and blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated
bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and
dialysis wastes.
   CC.   “Monthly average” means the sum of all “daily discharges” measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured
during that month.
   DD.   “Monthly average limit” means the highest allowable average of “daily
discharges” over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all “daily
discharges” measured during a calendar month divided by the number of “daily
discharges” measured during that month.
   EE.   “Narrative standard” or “narrative limit” means any statement of
prohibition or condition on a discharge established in this chapter that is not
a local limit. Narrative standards include, but are not limited to, prohibited
discharge standards and BMPs.
   FF.   “New source” means any building, structure, facility, or installation
from which there is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of
which commenced after the publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards under
Section 307(c) of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such
Standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
   1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a
site at which no other source is located; or
   2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the
process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
existing source; or
   3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   4.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
paragraphs 5.b. or 5.c. below but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
   5.   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
   a.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite construction
program any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
   b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or
removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for
the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment;
or
   c.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
paragraph.
   GG.   “Noncontact cooling water” means water used for cooling that does not
come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste
product, or finished product.
   HH.   “Oil interceptor” means a device for retaining oil by gravity-
differential separation from waste effluent, and of a design and capacity
approved by the utilities division/department manager.
   II.   “Pass through” means a discharge which exits the POTW into waters of
the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES permit, including an increase
in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   JJ.   “Person” means any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives,
agents, or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local
governmental entities.
   KK.   “pH” means a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution,
expressed in standard units.
   LL.   “Pollutant” means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
filter backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes,
chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and
industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH,
temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   MM.   “Pretreatment” means the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants
into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical,
chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means,
except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an
applicable pretreatment standard.
   NN.   “Pretreatment requirements” any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   OO.   “Pretreatment standards” or “standards” means prohibited discharge
standards, categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and any other
numerical or narrative effluent limit contained in this chapter.
   PP.   “Prohibited discharge standards” or “prohibited discharges” means
absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
prohibitions appear in section 13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards) of
this code.
   QQ.   “Publicly owned treatment works” or “POTW” means a treatment works, as
defined by Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. Section 1292), which is owned by
the city. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the
collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey
wastewater to a treatment plant.
   RR.   “Sanitary sewer overflow” means a release of untreated or partially
treated sewage from a municipal sanitary sewer.
   SS.   “Septic tank waste” means any sewage from holding tanks such as
vessels, chemical toilets, boats, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   TT.   “Sewage” means human excrement and gray water (household showers,
dishwashing operations, etc.).
   UU.   “Significant industrial user” or “SIU” means:
   1.   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
   2.   An industrial user that:
   a.   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
   b.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
   c.   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a reasonable
potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement.
   3.   The city may determine that an industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial user rather
than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial user never
discharges more than one hundred gpd of total categorical wastewater (excluding
sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless
specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the following
conditions are met:
   a.   The industrial user, prior to the city's finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
   b.   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in Section 13.12.140, N.2. (Reporting Requirements) of this code,
together with any additional information necessary to support the certification
statement; and
   c.   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
   d.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in Subsection 3. of
this section has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from an industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)
(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   V.V.   “Slug load” or “slug discharge” means any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration, which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in section
13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards) of this code. A slug discharge is
any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not limited to
an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge, which has a reasonable
potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any other way violate
the POTW's regulations, numerical or narrative effluent limits, local limits or
permit conditions.
   WW.   “Storm water” means any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including
snowmelt.
   XX.   “Total suspended solids” or “suspended solids” means the total
suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water,
wastewater, or other liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   YY.   “User” or “industrial user” means a source of indirect discharge.
   ZZ.   “Wastewater” means liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and
sewage from residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and
manufacturing facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed to the POTW.
   AAA.   “Wastewater treatment plant” or “treatment plant” means that portion
of the POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and
industrial waste.
   BBB.   “Water layer” means the middle layer in a grease trap/interceptor. It
must be at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the total depth for the grease
trap/interceptor to be functional.
   CCC.   “25% rule” refers to the amount of FOG that can accumulate in a
grease interceptor prior to necessary cleaning. Accumulated FOG cannot exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the grease interceptor's depth.
   1.   FOG includes the grease layer and the solids that fall to the bottom of
the grease interceptor.
   2.   The 25% rule is calculated using the following formula:
          (Grease Layer+Solids)  *100
          (Depth of Interceptor)
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.050   Prohibited discharge standards.
   A.   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes bypass, pass through or
interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
federal, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
   1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees (140°) F (sixty degrees (60°) C) using the
test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
   2.   Wastewater having a pH less than six and zero tenths (6.0) or more than
nine and zero tenths (9.0), or otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to
the POTW or equipment;
   3.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction of
the flow in the POTW resulting in Interference but in no case solids greater
than one half inch (0.5") or one and twenty-seven-hundredths centimeters (1.27
cm) in any dimension;
   4.   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.), released
in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which, either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference with
the POTW;
   5.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty degrees
(150º) F (sixty-five and sixth-tenths degrees (65.6º) C), or which will inhibit
biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no
case wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the
treatment plant to exceed one hundred four degrees (104º) F (forty degrees
(40º) C);
   6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil
origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
   8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except in accordance with Section
13.12.110, D. (Pretreatment of Wastewater) of this code;
   9.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
   10.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit;
   11.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
   12.   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the director;
   13.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
   14.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the director in a
wastewater discharge permit;
   15.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail toxicity test;
   16.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
   17.   FOG of animal or vegetable origin in concentrations greater than one
hundred (100) mg/L;
   18.   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than ten
percent (10%) or any single reading over five percent (5%) of the lower
explosive limit of the meter;
   19.   Radiological, chemical, or biological warfare agent or high-level
radioactive waste;
   20.   Amalgam or waste discharge containing mercury. (Ord. O-2023-005 § 3
(part), 2023)
13.12.060   [RESERVED FOR LOCAL LIMITS].
13.12.070   Categorical pretreatment standards.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   A.   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the director
may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
paragraphs E. and F. of this section.
   B.   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the director may
convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
   C.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is mixed
with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the director shall impose
an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   D.   A CIU may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with the following paragraphs of this section.
   1.   Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect the
presence of pollutants in the industrial user's intake water in accordance with
this section. Any industrial user wishing to obtain credit for intake
pollutants must make application to the city. Upon request of the industrial
user, the applicable standard will be calculated on a “net” basis (i.e.,
adjusted to reflect credit for pollutants in the intake water) if the
requirements of paragraph 2. of this section are met.
   2.   Criteria.
   a.   Either (i) the applicable categorical pretreatment standards contained
in 40 CFR subchapter N specifically provide that they shall be applied on a net
basis; or (ii) the industrial user demonstrates that the control system it
proposes or uses to meet applicable categorical pretreatment standards would,
if properly installed and operated, meet the standards in the absence of
pollutants in the intake waters.
   b.   Credit for generic pollutants such as biochemical oxygen demand (BOD),
total suspended solids (TSS), and oil and grease should not be granted unless
the industrial user demonstrates that the constituents of the generic measure
in the user's effluent are substantially similar to the constituents of the
generic measure in the intake water or unless appropriate additional limits are
placed on process water pollutants either at the outfall or elsewhere.
   c.   Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard(s), up to a maximum value equal to
the influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to determine
eligibility for credits and compliance with standard(s) adjusted under this
section.
   d.   Credit shall be granted only if the user demonstrates that the intake
water is drawn from the same body of water as that into which the POTW
discharges. The city may waive this requirement if it finds that no
environmental degradation will result.
   E.   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the city convert
the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the director.
The city may establish equivalent mass limits only if the industrial user meets
all the conditions set forth in paragraphs E.1.a. through E.1.e. of this
section.
   1.   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user must:
   a.   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation methods
and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of its
wastewater discharge permit;
   b.   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to achieve
compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and not have
used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
   c.   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's actual
average daily flow rate for all waste streams, based on data from a continuous
effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long-term average
production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-term
average production rate must be representative of current operating conditions;
   d.   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels that
vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not appropriate to
control the discharge; and
   e.   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment
standards during the period prior to the industrial user's request for
equivalent mass limits.
   2.   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
   a.   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment technologies
adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
   b.   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use of a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
   c.   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify the
director whenever production rates are expected to vary by more than twenty
percent (20%) from its baseline production rates determined in paragraph E.1.c.
of this section. Upon notification of a revised production rate, the director
will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the limit as necessary to
reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
   d.   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation methods
and technologies as those implemented pursuant to paragraph E.1.a. of this
section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
   3.   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Director:
    a.   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the actual
average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial user by
the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
   b.   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess the
equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect changed
conditions at the facility; and
   c.   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent wastewater
discharge permit terms if the industrial user's actual average daily flow rate
was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of water conservation
methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow rates used in the
original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not based on the use of
dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to Section
13.12.100 (Dilution) of this code. the industrial user must also be in
compliance with Section 13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards) of this code
regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   F.   The director may convert the mass limits of the categorical
pretreatment standards of 40 CFR Parts 414, 419, and 455 to concentration
limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual
industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the director.
   G.   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this section
13.12.070 (Categorical Pretreatment Standards) of this code in lieu of the
promulgated categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were
derived.
   H.   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   I.   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall
notify the director within two business days after the user has a reasonable
basis to know that the production level will significantly change within the
next calendar month. Any user not notifying the director of such anticipated
change will be required to meet the mass or concentration limits in its permit
that were based on the original estimate of the long-term average production
rate.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.080   Best management practices.
   The director may develop BMPs in wastewater discharge permits to implement
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.090   City's right of revision.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to
the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.100   Dilution.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The director
may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.110   Pretreatment of wastewater.
   A.   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, effluent limits, and the prohibitions set
out in Section
13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards) of this code within the time
limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the director, whichever is more
stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the director for review, and
shall be acceptable to the director before such facilities are constructed. The
review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a
discharge acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Additional pretreatment measures.
   1.   Whenever deemed necessary, the director may require users to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste streams, and
such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   2.   The director may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   3.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be required when, in the
opinion of the director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the director, shall comply
with the city's FOG control program (Section
13.12.150 of this code), and shall be so located to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and
repaired in accordance with the city's FOG control program (Section
13.12.150 of this code) by the user at their expense.
   4.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   C.   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans.
   1.   The director shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The director may require any user to develop, submit for approval,
and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be necessary to
control slug discharges. Alternatively, the director may develop such a plan
for any user. An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
   a.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   b.   Description of stored chemicals;
   c.   Procedures for immediately notifying the director of any accidental or
slug discharge, as required by Section
13.12.140, G. (Reporting Requirements) of this code; and
   d.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   D.   Hauled wastewater.
   1.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the director, and at such times as are established by the
director. Such waste shall not violate Section
13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards) of this code or any other
requirements established by the city. The director may require septic tank
waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   2.   The director may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The director may require generators of hauled
industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The director also may
prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled
industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
   3.   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the director. No load may be discharged without prior written
consent of the director. The director may collect samples of each hauled load
to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The director may require the
industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to
discharge.
   4.   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
   5.   Approval from the Director must be documented in writing before any
septic tank waste or hauler of industrial waste prior to discharge into any
location.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.120   Individual wastewater discharge permits.
   A.   Wastewater discharge permit requirement.
   1.   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the POTW
without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the director, except
that a significant industrial user that has filed a timely application pursuant
to paragraph B of this section may continue to discharge for the time period
specified therein.
   2.   The director may require other users to obtain wastewater discharge
permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   3.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in Sections
13.12.190 through
13.12.200 of this code. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
   B.   Wastewater discharge permitting: existing connections. Any user
required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was discharging wastewater
into the POTW prior to the effective date of this chapter and who wishes to
continue such discharges in the future, shall, within sixty days after said
date, apply to the director for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance
with paragraph D of this section, and shall not cause or allow discharges to
the POTW to continue after one hundred eighty days of the effective date of
this chapter except in accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by
the director.
   C.   Wastewater discharge permitting: new connections. Any user required to
obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to begin or recommence
discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or
recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater discharge
permit, in accordance with paragraph D. of this section, must be filed at least
sixty days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
   D.   Wastewater discharge permit application.
   1.   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit
a permit application. The director may require users to submit all or some of
the following information as part of a permit application:
   a.   Identifying information:
   i.   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner.
   ii.   Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and plant
production processes on the premises.
   b.   Environmental permits: A list of any environmental control permits held
by or for the facility.
   c.   Description of operations: A brief description of the nature, average
rate of production (including each product produced by type, amount, processes,
and rate or production), and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
   d.   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW.
   e.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation.
   f.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day).
   g.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans; details to show
all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation;
and all points of discharge.
   h.   Time and duration of discharges.
   i.   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit.
   j.   Flow measurement: Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   k.   Measurement of pollutants: The categorical pretreatment standards
applicable to each regulated process and any new categorically regulated
processes for existing sources.
   l.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, where required by the standard or by the director, or regulated
pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
   m.   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations,
where required, shall be reported.
   n.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the director to
evaluate the permit application.
   2.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out in
Section
13.12.140, K. (Reporting Requirements) of this code.
   a.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall be
analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in Section
13.12.140, J (Reporting Requirements) of this code. Where the standard requires
compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall
submit documentation as required by the director or the applicable standards to
determine compliance with the standard.
   3.   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal or an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge.
   4.   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the user for revision.
   E.   Application signatories and certifications.
   1.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in Section
13.12.140, N.1. (Reporting Requirements) of this code.
   2.   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or for environmental matters for the company,
a new written authorization satisfying the requirements of this section must be
submitted to the director prior to or together with any reports to be signed by
an authorized representative.
   3.   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the director pursuant to Section
13.12.140 UU.3 (Definitions) of this code must annually submit the signed
certification statement in Section
13.12.140, N.1 (Reporting Requirements) of this code.
   F.   Wastewater discharge permit decisions. The director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information. Within sixty
days of receipt of a complete permit application, the director will determine
whether to issue a wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.130   Wastewater discharge permit issuance.
   A.   Wastewater discharge permit duration. Any wastewater discharge permit
shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five years from the
effective date of the permit. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a
period less than five years, at the discretion of the director. Each wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
   B.   Wastewater discharge permit contents.
   1.   Any wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are
deemed reasonably necessary by the director to prevent bypass, pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   2.   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
   a.   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date, and effective date.
   b.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the city in accordance with paragraph D. of this
section and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit.
   c.   Effluent limits and best management practices, based on applicable
pretreatment standards.
   d.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-keeping
requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of pollutants
(or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location, sampling
frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law.
   e.   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge.
   f.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of
pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
   g.   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the director
to be necessary.
   h.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the director must be included as
a condition in the user's permit.
   3.   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
   a.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
   b.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology, pollution
control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works.
   c.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or other special conditions including best management practices necessary
to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine discharges.
   d.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW.
   e.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the management
of the wastewater discharged to the POTW.
   f.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices.
   g.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit does
not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable
federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which become
effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit.
   h.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the director to ensure
compliance with this chapter and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   C.   Permit modification. The director may modify a wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
   2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
wastewater discharge permit issuance.
   3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge.
   4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city's POTW, personnel, or the receiving waters.
   5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit.
   6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting.
   7.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13.
   8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit.
   9.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator where requested in accordance with paragraph D. of this
section.
   D.   Wastewater discharge permit transfer.
   1.   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least sixty advance notice to the
director and the director approves the wastewater discharge permit transfer.
The notice to the director must include a written certification by the new
owner or operator which:
   a.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility's operations and processes.
   b.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur.
   c.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   2.   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
   E.   Wastewater discharge permit revocation.
   1.   The director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   a.   Failure to notify the director of significant changes to the wastewater
prior to the changed discharge.
   b.   Failure to provide prior notification to the director of changed
conditions pursuant to Section 13.12.140, F (Reporting Requirements) of this
code.
   c.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application.
   d.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements.
   e.   Tampering with monitoring equipment.
   f.   Refusing to allow the director timely access to the facility premises
and records.
   g.   Failure to meet effluent limitations.
   h.   Failure to pay fines.
   i.   Failure to pay sewer charges.
   j.   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
   k.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application.
   l.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business ownership
of a permitted facility.
   m.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirements, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   2.   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge
permit to that user.
   F.   Wastewater discharge permit reissuance. An Industrial user with an
expiring industrial wastewater discharge permit shall apply for a permit
reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance with
Section
13.12.120 D. (Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits) of this code, a minimum
of thirty days prior to the expiration of the industrial user's existing
industrial wastewater discharge permit.
   G.   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions.
   1.   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW or AWPF, the director shall enter into an
intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   2.   Prior to entering into an agreement required by paragraph G.1., above,
the director shall request the following information from the contributing
municipality:
   a.   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to the
POTW or AWPF by the contributing municipality;
   b.   An inventory of all users located within the contributing municipality
that are discharging to the POTW or AWPF; and
   c.   Such other information as the director may deem necessary.
   3.   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by paragraph G.2., above,
shall contain the following conditions:
   a.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter, numerical or
narrative effluent limits, and local limits, including required baseline
monitoring reports (BMRs) which are at least as stringent as those set out in
Section
13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards) of this code. The requirement shall
specify that such ordinance and limits must be revised as necessary to reflect
changes made to the city's ordinance, numerical or narrative effluent limits,
or local limits;
   b.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
   c.   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation activities,
including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and sampling, and
enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality; which of these
activities will be conducted by the director; and which of these activities
will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and the director;
   d.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the director
with access to all information that the contributing municipality obtains as
part of its pretreatment activities;
   e.   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW or AWPF;
   f.   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's discharge;
   g.   A provision ensuring the director access to the facilities of users
located within the contributing municipality's jurisdictional boundaries for
the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary by
the director; and
   h.   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms of
the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.140   Reporting requirements.
   A.   Wastewater analysis. When requested by the director, a user must submit
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within thirty
days of the request. The director is authorized to prepare a form for this
purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
   B.   Baseline monitoring reports for categorical industrial users.
   1.   Within either one hundred eighty days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a
category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to, or scheduled to
discharge to the POTW, shall submit to the director a report which contains the
information listed in Paragraph B.2., below. At least ninety days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the director a report which contains the
information listed in paragraph B.2., below. A new source shall report the
method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   2.   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
   a.   All information required in Sections
13.12.120, D. (Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits) of this code.
   b.   Measurement of pollutants. The user shall provide the information
required in Section
13.12.120, D.2. (Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits) of this code.
   c.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to compile
that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
   d.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula in
40 CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(e), this adjusted limits along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the city.
   e.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with paragraph
J. of this section.
   f.   The director may allow the submission of a baseline report which
utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures.
   g.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date, and place of
sampling and methods of analysis; and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
   h.   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in Section
13.12.040, D. (Definitions) of this code and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether pretreatment standards are being met on a
consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional O&M and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
   i.   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in paragraph C. of
this section.
   j.   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with paragraph N.1. of this section and signed
by an authorized representative as defined in Section
13.12.040, D. (Definitions) of this code.
   C.   Compliance schedule progress reports for categorical industrial users.
The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule:
   1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates for
the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   3.   The user shall submit a progress report to the director no later than
fourteen days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   4.   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the director.
   D.   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within ninety days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the director a
report containing the information described in Section
13.12.120 D. (Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits) of this code and
paragraph B. of this section. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in Section
13.12.060 (National Categorical Pretreatment Standards) of this code, this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with paragraph N.1. of this section. All
sampling will be done in conformance with paragraph K. of this section.
   E.   Periodic compliance reports for significant industrial users.
   1.   All SIUs are required to submit periodic compliance reports, at a
frequency determined by the director, no less than twice per year (June and
December) indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the
pretreatment standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention
alternative, the user must submit documentation required by the director or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
   2.   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with paragraph N.1. of this section.
   3.   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   4.   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section monitors
any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more frequently
than required by the director, using the procedures described in paragraph K.
of this section, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
   5.   Users that send electronic (digital) documents to the city to satisfy
the requirements of this section must email documents to the email address set
forth in the user's permit or such other email address as established by the
city from time to time.
   F.   Reports of changed conditions.
   1.   Each user must notify the director of any significant changes to the
user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume of
its wastewater at least sixty days before the change.
   2.   The director may require the user to submit such information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under Section
13.12.120, D. (Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits) of this code.
   3.   The director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under Section
13.12.130, F. (Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance) of this code or modify an
existing wastewater discharge permit under Section
13.12.130, C. (Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance) of this code in response
to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   G.   Reports of potential problems.
   1.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch
discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone the city's engineering main
line (805-773-4656) during business hours, or the non-emergency Police
Department dispatch line (805-773-2208) outside of business hours; and notify
the director of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.
   2.   Within five (5) days following such a discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the director, submit a detailed written report describing the cause
(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   3.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in paragraph A. above. A user shall ensure that all its
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   4.   Significant industrial users are required to notify the director
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
   H.   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the director
as the director may require.
   I.   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the director
within twenty-four hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall
also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat
analysis to the director within thirty days after becoming aware of the
violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city
performs sampling at the user's facility at least once per month, or if the
city performs sampling at the user's facility between the time when the initial
sampling was conducted and the time when the user or the city receives the
results of this sampling, or if the city has performed the sampling and
analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
   J.   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR Part
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136 sampling and analytical
techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the director or other parties approved by the EPA.
   K.   Sample collection.
   1.   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report, based on data that is representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   2.   Except as indicated in Subsection 3. below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the director. Where time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must be representative of the
discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in 40
CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected
during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows:
   a.   For cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field.
   b.   For volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited
in the laboratory.
   c.   Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing
procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the
city, as appropriate.
   d.   In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous limits.
   3.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   4.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in paragraphs B. and D. of this section, a minimum
of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which
historical sampling data do not exist. For facilities for which historical
sampling data are available, the director may authorize a lower minimum. For
the reports required by paragraph E. of this section, the industrial user is
required to collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure
compliance by with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   L.   Date of receipt of reports. Written reports submitted by mail will be
deemed to have been submitted three business days after the date postmarked.
Reports submitted electronically will be deemed to have been submitted the date
received.
   M.   Recordkeeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with best management practices established under
Section
13.12.080 of this code. Records shall include the date, exact place, method,
and time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the
dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical
techniques or methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records
shall remain available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period
shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning
the user or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a
longer retention period by the director.
   N.   Certification statements.
   1.   Certification of permit applications, user reports, and initial
monitoring waiver. The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
Section
13.12.120, D. (Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits) of this code; users
submitting baseline monitoring reports under paragraph B. of this section;
users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical pretreatment
standard deadlines under paragraph D. of this section; users submitting
periodic compliance reports required by paragraph E. of this section; and users
submitting an initial request to forego sampling of a pollutant on the basis of
paragraph E. of this section. The following certification statement must be
signed by an authorized representative as defined in Section
13.12.040, D. (Definitions) of this code:
   “I certify under penalty of perjury that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   2.   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial users.
a facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial user by
the director pursuant to Section
13.12.040 UU.3. (Definitions) of this code must annually submit the following
certification statement signed in accordance with the signatory requirements in
Section
13.12.040 D. (Definitions) of this code. This certification must accompany an
alternative report required by the director:
   “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR
(categorical code), I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that
during the period from [month, day, year] to [month, day, year], the facility
described as [facility name] met the definition of a non-significant
categorical industrial user as described in Section
13.12.040 UU.3 (Definitions) of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code; the facility
complied with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements during
this reporting period; and the facility never discharged more than 100 gallons
of total categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.”
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.150   Fats, Oil, and Grease (FOG) control program.
   A.   The purpose of the FOG control program is to reduce sanitary sewer
overflows and blockages, and to protect public health and the environment by
minimizing public exposure to unsanitary conditions. Controlling the discharge
of fats, oils and/or grease to the wastewater collection system, excessive
buildup in sewer lines can be lessened, thereby increasing the system's
operating efficiency and reducing the number of sewer line blockages and
overflows.
   B.   General FOG discharge prohibitions. No food service establishment (FSE)
shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the sewer system FOG that may
accumulate and/or cause or contribute to blockages in the sewer system or at
the sewer lateral which connects the FSE to the sewer system.
   C.   Specific FOG prohibitions. The following specific prohibitions shall
apply to all FSEs:
   1.   Discharge of any FOG-containing wastewater that is not connected to a
grease removal device is prohibited.
   2.   Non-grease laden sources such as, but not limited to, hand-wash sinks,
toilets, urinals, and storm water, shall not be connected to a grease removal
device.
   3.   No dishwasher shall be connected to a grease trap.
   4.   Discharge of wastewater with temperatures in excess of one hundred
fifty degrees (150°) F (sixty-five and six-tenths degrees (65.6°) C) into any
grease trap is prohibited.
   5.   Direct disposal of any waste cooking oil into any drain or cleanout
that is connected to the sewer system is prohibited.
   6.   Introduction of any additive into a grease removal device or directly
into the sewer system for the purpose of emulsifying FOG, biologically/
chemically treating FOG for grease remediation, or as a supplement to any
grease removal device maintenance is prohibited, unless specifically authorized
in writing by the director.
   7.   Discharge of any waste which has been removed from a grease removal
device into the sewer system is prohibited.
   D.   FOG best management practices.
   1.   All FSEs shall implement BMPs to minimize the discharge of FOG to the
sewer system, including, but not limited to, the following, as applicable:
   a.   Installation of drain screens. Drain screens shall be installed on all
drainage pipes in food preparation areas.
   b.   Segregation and collection of waste cooking oil. All waste cooking oil
shall be collected and stored properly in recycling receptacles such as barrels
or drums. Such recycling receptacles shall be maintained properly to ensure
that they do not leak. Licensed waste haulers or an approved recycling facility
must be used to dispose of waste cooking oil.
   c.   Disposal of food waste. All food waste should be disposed of directly
into the organics recycling cart per SB 1383 (California Short-Lived Climate
Pollutant Reduction law).
   d.   Employee training. Employees of the FSE shall be trained by ownership/
management periodically as specified here:
   i.   Dry-wiping pots, pans, dishware and work areas before washing to remove
grease.
   ii.   Properly disposing food waste and solids in plastic bags prior to
disposal in trash bins or containers to prevent leaking and odors. The use of
garbage disposals is discouraged.
   iii.   The location and use of absorption products to clean under fryer
baskets and other locations where grease may be spilled or dripped.
   iv.   Properly disposing grease or oils from cooking equipment into a proper
grease receptacle without spilling.
   v.   Training shall be documented along with employee signatures. Training
records shall be available for review at any time by authorized representatives
of the city.
   vi.   Maintenance of mechanical exhaust ventilation filters. Filters shall
be cleaned as frequently as necessary to be maintained in good operating
condition. The wastewater generated from cleaning exhaust filters shall be
disposed of in accordance with this chapter.
   vii.   Kitchen signage. Best management and waste minimization practices
shall be posted conspicuously in the food preparation and dishwashing areas at
all times.
   viii.   Spill plan. Each FSE shall have a plan that will be followed in the
event of a spill and all employees should be trained on proper spill clean-up.
   E.   FOG pretreatment required for new and existing FSEs.
   1.   FSEs are required to install, operate, and maintain an approved type
and adequately sized grease interceptor necessary to maintain compliance with
the objectives of this section, subject only to the variance and waiver
provisions and other exceptions of this section. The grease interceptor shall
be adequate to separate and remove FOG contained in wastewater discharges from
FSEs prior to discharge to the sewer system. Fixtures, equipment, and drain
lines located in the food preparation and cleanup areas of FSEs that are
sources of FOG discharges shall be connected to the grease interceptor.
   2.   New FSEs shall include and install grease interceptors prior to
commencing discharges of wastewater to the sewer system.
   3.   Existing FSEs shall install grease interceptors in any of the following
circumstances:
   a.   When the FSE changes ownership;
   b.   When any change in operation results in or has the potential to result
in the increase of the amount of FOG generated and/or discharged by FSE in an
amount that alone or collectively causes or creates a potential sanitary sewer
overflow (SSO) to occur;
   c.   When it is determined by the director that the FSE caused or
contributed to grease-related blockages in the sewer system, has sewer laterals
connected to hot spots, or has been determined to contribute significant FOG to
the sewer system, based on inspection and sampling;
   d.   During a remodel that relocates cooking or cleaning facilities,
increases cooking capacity, or changes the type of cooking at the facility;
   e.   Any other time the director reasonably determines that installation of
a grease interceptor is necessary to avoid an adverse impact to the sewer
system.
   f.   Any existing FSE that receives a notice from the director to install a
grease interceptor must install the interceptor within one hundred eighty days
unless otherwise required by the director.
   F.   Variance of grease interceptor requirement.
   1.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, an existing FSE
may obtain a variance, at the director's discretion, from the grease
interceptor requirement to allow alternative pretreatment technology that is
equally effective in controlling the FOG discharge in lieu of a grease
interceptor. One such type of alternative pretreatment technology is a grease
trap. Consideration of granting the variance will be based on the following:
   a.   There is insufficient space for installation and/or maintenance of a
grease interceptor.
   b.   There is inadequate slope for gravity flow between kitchen plumbing
fixtures and the grease interceptor and/or between the grease interceptor and
the private collection line or the public sewer.
   c.   The FSE can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the director, that the
alternative pretreatment technology is equivalent or better than a grease
interceptor in controlling FOG. In addition, the FSE must be able to
demonstrate, after installation of the proposed alternative pretreatment
technology, its continued ability to effectively control FOG discharge.
   d.   The variance may be rescinded if subsequent monitoring shows
accumulation of FOG in the sewer lateral or the collection system downstream of
the FSEs connection or if the FSE caused or contributed to a sanitary sewer
overflow. A grease interceptor must be installed within one hundred eighty days
of the rescission of a variance.
   G.   Cost recovery for FOG. All costs incurred for cleaning the sewer line
to remove FOG buildup caused or contributed to by an FSE shall be reimbursed to
the city by the FSE.
   H.   Grease interceptor requirements.
   1.   Any FSE that is required to provide FOG pretreatment shall install
operate and maintain an approved type and properly sized grease interceptor, or
other grease removal device authorized under an approved variance, necessary to
maintain compliance with the purpose of the FOG control program.
   2.   Approved grease interceptor sizing and installation shall conform to
the latest approved edition of the California Plumbing Code including any local
amendments thereto.
   3.   Grease interceptors shall be constructed in accordance with the design
approved by the director and shall have a minimum of two compartments with
fittings designed for grease retention.
   4.   Grease interceptors shall be installed at a location where it is easily
accessible for inspection, cleaning, and removal of accumulated grease.
   5.   Grease interceptors may not be installed in any part of the building
where food is handled.
   6.   If a location is not available on the property of the FSE, the FSE
shall contact the city engineer and the director to determine a suitable
location.
   7.   There will be no obstruction of the grease interceptor from landscaping
or parked vehicles.
   8.   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of twenty-four inches, shall
be provided over each grease interceptor chamber and sanitary tee. The manholes
shall also have readily removable covers to facilitate inspection, grease
removal and wastewater sampling activities.
   9.   The original design of the grease interceptor shall not be modified
unless the manufacturer recommends the modification in writing.
   10.   Any modification will be at the FSEs expense.
   11.   The city is not liable for any non-compliance as a result of any
modification.
   12.   The director may require other pretreatment measures or modifications
to improve the effectiveness of the grease interceptor.
   13.   Connections to the grease interceptor shall be approved by the
director, and the director may require connections to be removed.
   I.   Grease interceptor maintenance requirements.
   1.   Grease interceptors shall be maintained in efficient operating
condition by periodic complete removal of all contents of the devices including
wastewater, accumulated FOG, floating materials, sludge and solids.
   2.   No FOG that has accumulated in a grease interceptor shall be allowed to
pass into any sewer lateral, sewer system, storm drain, or public right-of-way
during maintenance activities.
   3.   The city can require FSEs that are in an area that requires frequent
sewer line cleaning from FOG buildup to submit data and other necessary
information to establish a required maintenance frequency for their grease
interceptor.
   4.   The maintenance frequency for all FSEs with a grease interceptor shall
be determined in one of the following methods:
   5.   Grease interceptors shall be fully pumped out and cleaned at a
frequency such that the combined FOG and solids accumulation does not exceed
the 25% rule. The interval between cleaning will be established by the
director, but shall occur at a minimum of four times per year.
   6.   The owner/operator of an FSE may submit a request to the director
asking for a change in the maintenance frequency at any time. The FSE has the
burden of responsibility to prove that the change reflects actual operating
conditions based on the average FOG accumulation over time, and meets the
requirements of the 25% rule. The FSE must also show that it is in full
compliance with this section.
   7.   If the grease interceptor contains, at any time, FOG and solids
accumulation that exceeds the 25% rule, the FSE shall be required to have the
grease interceptor serviced immediately so that all FOG, sludge and other
materials are completely removed from the interceptor. If necessary, the FSE
may be required to increase the maintenance frequency of the grease interceptor
from its current frequency.
   8.   Wastewater, accumulated FOG, floating materials, sludge, solids, and
other materials removed from the grease interceptor shall be disposed offsite
properly by licensed waste haulers or recyclers in accordance with federal,
state, and/or local regulations.
   J.   Grease trap requirements.
   1.   Grease traps may be authorized by the director with the following
conditions:
   2.   Grease traps shall be installed in waste lines leading from drains,
sinks and other fixtures or equipment where grease may be introduced into the
sewer system in quantities that can cause blockage.
   3.   Grease traps shall be properly sized and installed in accordance with
the latest approved edition of the California Plumbing Code, including any
local amendments thereto.
   4.   The original design of the grease trap shall not be modified unless the
manufacturer recommends the modification in writing.
   5.   Any modification will be at the FSE's expense.
   6.   The city is not liable for any non-compliance as a result of any
modification.
   7.   Grease traps shall be maintained in efficient operating conditions by
removing accumulated grease. The interval between cleaning will be established
by the director, but shall occur at a minimum of four times per year. Baffles
shall be removed and cleaned during the maintenance process, when applicable.
   8.   Grease traps shall be kept free of all food residues and any FOG waste
removed during the cleaning and scraping process.
   9.   Grease traps shall be inspected periodically to check for leaking seams
and pipes and for effective operation of the baffles and flow regulating
devices.
   10.   Grease traps and their baffles shall be maintained free of all caked
on FOG and waste.
   11.   Dishwashers and food waste disposal units shall not be connected to or
discharged into any grease trap.
   12.   The temperature of any water entering a grease trap shall not exceed
one hundred fifty degrees (150°) F (sixty-five and sixth-tenths degrees (65.6°)
C).
   K.   FOG monitoring requirements.
   1.   The director may require, an FSE to construct and maintain in proper
operating condition, at the FSE's sole expense, flow monitoring, constituent
monitoring, and/or sampling devices.
   2.   The location of monitoring or metering devices shall be subject to
approval by the director.
   3.   At all times, FSEs shall provide immediate, clear, safe and
uninterrupted access to authorized representatives of the city to all
monitoring and metering devices.
   4.   The amount of grease and food solids in the grease trap/interceptor
must be determined and recorded by measuring the grease layer, food solids and
water layer.
   5.   FSEs may be required by the director to submit waste analysis plans,
contingency plans, and meet other necessary requirements to ensure proper
operation and maintenance of any grease removal device and compliance with this
section.
   L.   FOG record keeping requirements. FSEs shall keep all records, including
manifests, receipts and invoices of all cleaning and maintenance of grease
removal devices for a period of three years after the date of their creation.
All records shall be made available to authorized representatives of the city
upon request. In addition to the above-mentioned documents, records include
logbooks of maintenance activity, BMPs and employee training, sampling data,
spill reports, line cleaning reports, and any other information deemed
appropriate by the director to ensure compliance with the FOG Control Program
and this section.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.160   Compliance monitoring.
   A.   Right of entry: inspection and sampling.
   1.   The director shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall
allow the director ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes
of inspection, sampling, records, examination and copying, and the performance
of any additional duties.
   2.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the director shall be permitted to enter without
delay for the purposes of performing such inspection, sampling, examination and
copying as deemed appropriate by the director.
   3.   The director shall have the right to set up on the user's property, or
require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user's operations.
   4.   The director may require the user to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own
expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated as established by the director and no less than recommended by the
manufacturer to ensure their accuracy.
   5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the director and shall not be replaced. The
costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the director access to the user's
premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.170   Confidential information.
   Confidential information. Information and data on a user obtained from
reports, surveys, wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater
discharge permits, monitoring programs, city inspection, and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the director, that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets
under applicable state or federal law. Any such request must be asserted at the
time of submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated
by the user furnishing a report that such information should be held
confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or
secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but
shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for
uses related to the pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR 2.302 shall not
be recognized as confidential information and shall be available to the public
without restriction.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.180   Publication of users in significant noncompliance.
   A.   Publication of users in significant noncompliance.
   1.   The director shall publish annually a list of the users which, at any
time during the previous twelve months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant
noncompliance shall be applicable to all significant industrial users (or any
other industrial user that violates paragraphs c., d., or h. of this paragraph)
and shall mean:
   a.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits as established in Section
13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards).
   b.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product
of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous
limits, as established in Section
13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards) of this code multiplied by the
applicable criteria (one and four-tenths (1.4) for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and
grease; one and two-tenths (1.2) for all other pollutants except pH).
   c.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by Section
13.12.050 (Prohibited Discharge Standards) of this code or requirement
including instantaneous limits, as established in Section 13.12.050 (Prohibited
Discharge Standards) of this code (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the director determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of the POTW personnel or the general
public.
   d.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the director's exercise of
its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
   e.   Failure to meet, within ninety days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance.
   f.   Failure to provide within forty-five days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
   g.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   h.   Any other violation(s) which the director determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.190   Administrative enforcement remedies.
   A.   Notification of violation. When the director finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the director may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within ten days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
director. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of liability
for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the director to
take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a notice of violation.
   B.   Consent orders. The director may enter into consent orders, assurances
of compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any
user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific
action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and
effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to paragraphs D. and E. of
this section and shall be judicially enforceable.
   C.   Show cause hearing. The director may order a user which has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the director and show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action,
the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least fifteen days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be
served on any authorized representative of the user as defined in Section
13.12.040 D. (Definitions) of this code and required by Section
13.12.140 N.1. (Reporting Requirements) of this code. A show cause hearing
shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
   D.   Compliance orders. When the director finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the director may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   E.   Cease and desist orders. When the director finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit, order issued hereunder, any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the
director may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all
such violations and directing the user to:
   1.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   2.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
   F.   Administrative fines.
   1.   When the director finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
director may fine such user in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000). Fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis and are
subject to misdemeanors. In the case of monthly or other long-term average
discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation.
   2.   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after ten business days, be
assessed an additional penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid balance, and
interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of one percent (1%) per month. A
lien against the user's property may be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and
penalties.
   3.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the director to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within ten business days of the date such fine is imposed. Where a request is
not clearly frivolous, the director may convene a hearing on the matter. In the
event the user's appeal is successful, the payment shall be returned to the
user. The director may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement
actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   4.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   G.   Emergency suspensions.
   1.   The director may immediately direct a user to suspend a user's
discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears
to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The director may also immediately direct a user to suspend
a user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
   2.   Any user directed to suspend its discharge shall immediately stop or
eliminate the discharge. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the director may take such steps as
deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment
to any individuals. The director may allow the user to recommence its discharge
when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the director that the
period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in
paragraph H. of this section, are initiated against the user.
   3.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the director prior to the date of any show
cause or termination hearing under paragraphs C. and H. of this section.
   4.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   H.   Termination of discharge. In addition to the provisions in Section
13.12.130 E. (Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance) of this code, any user who
violates the following conditions is subject to discharge termination:
   1.   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions.
   2.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge.
   3.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge.
   4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling.
   5.   Violation of the pretreatment standards in Section 2 (General Sewer Use
Requirements) of this chapter.
   6.   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge
and be offered an opportunity to show cause under paragraph C. of this section
why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
director shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.200   Judicial enforcement remedies.
   A.   Injunctive relief. When the director finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, an order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the director may petition the Superior Court of San Luis Obispo
County through the city's attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the user. The director may also seek such other action
as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement
for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive
relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against a user.
   B.   Criminal prosecution.
   1.   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000) per violation per day, or imprisonment for not more than six months,
or both.
   2.   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation per day, or imprisonment for not more
than six months, or both. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause
of action for personal injury or property damage available under state law.
   3.   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
files, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter, shall, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and be subject to a penalty of
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation per day, or
imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
   C.   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The director may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with the city's enforcement response plan.
However, the director may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the director is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.12.210   Severability.
   If any provision of this chapter is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and shall continue
in full force and effect.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
Chapter 13.14 SEWER USE
13.14.010   Federal requirements.
   To comply with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (P.L. 92-500) and the
Clean Water Act of 1977 (P.L. 95-217), the city operates a wastewater treatment
facility, conveyance pipelines, and outfall to serve the needs of city
residents and other users of the city's wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal facilities. This wastewater treatment facility is funded in part by
clean water grant funds.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.020   Authority and conflict.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to Health and Safety Code Chapter 3
(commencing at Section 4700 et seq.) and Government Code Section 38900. In the
case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and those of the
state codes noted in this section, the later shall prevail.
   All provisions of this chapter are applicable to all users of the sewerage
system including all users whose connection to the sewerage system is located
outside the corporate boundaries of the city and to all premises or property
requiring sewer connections under the provisions of Section
13.14.060.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.030   Abbreviations.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
Act - Federal Water Pollution Control Act or Clean Water Act
BOD - Biochemical Oxygen Demand
C - Celsius
City - City of Pismo Beach
Director - Director of Public Works for the City
F - Fahrenheit
mg/L - milligrams per liter
NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW - Publicly Owned Treatment Works
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023)
13.14.040   Definitions.
   A.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal sewer system (sewer
lateral) which extends from a point two feet outside of the building to the
point of connection with the public sewer main or private wastewater disposal
system.
   B.   “Bypass” means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a treatment facility.
   C.   “City” means the City of Pismo Beach, California.
   D.   “Diluting waters” means water added to waste to make the waste
compatible with the requirements and standards of the city.
   D.   “Director” means the director of public works of the City of Pismo
Beach, or their representative.
   E.   “Domestic wastes” consists of waste discharging from the sanitary
conveniences principally of dwellings (including apartment houses and motels),
restaurants, office buildings, institutions, and the like.
   F.   “Engineer” means the city engineer.
   G.   “Interference” means discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city's NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   H.   “Pass through” means discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of
any requirement of the city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
   I.   “Person” means any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives,
agents, or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local
governmental entities.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.050   Sewer connections.
   Sections 13.14.060 through 13.14.190 are applicable to all users of the
sewerage system, including all users whose sewerage connection is located
outside the city.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.060   Connection to city sewerage system required.
   Except as provided in this chapter, the owner of every premises situated
within the city is required to:
   A.   Install at the owner’s expense all building sanitary waste plumbing and
building sewers therein or thereon. Such installation shall be done as soon as
is practicable, as determined by the director; however, no building intended
for occupancy shall receive final approval of a building permit until all
required on- and off-site work is completed;
   B.   At the owner’s expense, connect such premises with the proper public
sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and with
adopted city standards. This is to be done no later than six months following
official notice from the director.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.070   Exceptions to required connection.
   Connection of a premises to a private disposal system may be allowed, as
provided in this chapter and the Uniform California Plumbing Code, including
any local amendments thereto, where:
   A.   No public sewer is located within two hundred feet of any property line
of said premises; or
   B.   Connection to the public sewer is prohibited by a duly authorized
government agency.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.080   Permit required prior to connection.
   No person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use,
alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a permit from the director.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.090   Permit application procedure.
   Applications for connections to a city sewer shall in every case be made by
the owner or owner’s agent on a form furnished by the city. Each application
shall be supplemented by such plans, specifications, analyses of strength and
quantity of wastewater to be produced, flow data, or other information as
shall, in the judgement of the director, be considered pertinent.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.100   Cost of sewer connection.
   Any connection to the sewerage system, including the piping within any
public right-of-way, shall be installed at the sole expense of the owner of the
property served. Such connections shall not be made without prior authorization
of the director, receipt of an acceptable complete application, and payment of
all applicable fees and charges.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.110   Owner to indemnify city from loss.
   The owner(s) shall indemnity the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of a building sewer.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.120   Permit to connect does not convey vested right.
   The holder of all permits issued hereunder shall be subject at all times to
all applicable federal, state, county and city laws and regulations. At no time
and in no way shall the holder of any permit acquire or be regarded as having
acquired a vested or continuing right to maintain or to have continued
connection to the sewerage system.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.130   Standards for physical connections.
   All connections to the sewerage system shall be in accordance with the
standards specified in this chapter.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.140   Separate building sewer required for every building and parcel.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building and parcel.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.150   Building sewer to meet code requirements.
   The size, slope, alignment, the materials of construction, and the methods
to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench for a building sewer, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. Whenever practical, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means
approved by the director and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.160   Connection of building sewers to city sewer to be gas-tight and
water-tight.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, and to the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No.
9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight and shall be
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the director before installation.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.170   Excavation to be adequately guarded with barricades.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in accordance with city standards.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: rd. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.180   Inspection and testing of new connections required.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the director when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the director.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.190   Building sewer to be maintained in water-tight and gas-tight
condition.
   Each owner of a building sewer shall maintain the sewer in a water-tight and
gas-tight condition at all times. Except during inspection, testing or
cleaning, all openings required by the plumbing and building codes for
inspection, testing and cleaning shall be sealed with a suitable gas-tight
plug. Plugs shall not be removed to drain yards, basements, crawl spaces or
driveways. All defects in the building sewer which prevent it from being gas-
tight and water-tight shall be repaired by the owner within ninety days after
notification by the city, and the repaired and tested sewer shall be subject to
inspection by the city to verify that a satisfactory repair has been made.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.200   Sewer use regulations.
   Sewer use regulations are as set out in Sections
13.14.210 through
13.14.300.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.210   Discharge into city storm drain prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge within the city any wastewater or polluted
waters into any storm drain or natural outlet or channel. All sewage, waste and
wastewater shall be discharged to the sewerage system except as hereinafter
provided.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.220   Discharges to city sewerage system shall be regulated.
   All discharges to the sewerage system shall comply with the regulations put
forth in this chapter. No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into
the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes bypass, pass through or
interference including:
   A.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees (140º) F (sixty degrees (60°) C) using the
test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
   B.   Wastewater having a pH less than six and zero tenths (6.0) or more than
nine and zero tenths (9.0), or otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to
the POTW or equipment;
   C.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction of
the flow in the POTW resulting in Interference but in no case solids greater
than one half inch (0.5") or one and twenty-seven-hundredths centimeters (1.27
cm) in any dimension;
   D.   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.), released
in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which, either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference with
the POTW;
   E.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty degrees
(150º) F (sixty-five and six-tenths degrees 65.6° C), or which will inhibit
biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no
case wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the
treatment plant to exceed one hundred four degrees (104º) F (forty degrees
(40º)C);
   F.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil
origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   G.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
   H.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except in accordance with Section
13.12.110 D. (Hauled Wastewater) of this code;
   I.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
   J.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's effluent,
thereby violating the City's NPDES permit;
   K.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
   L.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
   M.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Director in a
wastewater discharge permit;
   N.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail toxicity test;
   O.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which that might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
   P.   FOG of animal or vegetable origin in concentrations greater than 100
mg/L;
   Q.   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than ten
percent (10%) or any single reading over five percent (5%) of the lower
explosive limit of the meter.
   R.   Radiological, chemical, or biological warfare agent or high-level
radioactive waste.
   S.   Amalgam or waste discharge containing mercury.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.230   Prohibition on discharge of surface waters.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any rainwater,
stormwater, groundwater, street drainage, subsurface drainage or yard drainage
into any pipe which is directly or indirectly connected to the sewerage system.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.240   Prohibition of use of diluting waters.
   The use of diluting waters is prohibited.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.250   Prohibition on discharge of other unpolluted water.
   Unpolluted water, including but not limited to cooling water, process water
or blowdown from cooling towers or evaporative coolers, shall not be discharged
through direct or indirect connections to a city sewer unless a wastewater
discharge permit is issued by the city.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.260   Limitations on the use of garbage grinders.
   Waste from garbage grinders shall not be discharged into the sewerage system
except:
   A.   Wastes generated in preparation of food normally consumed on the
premises, such as in a home or restaurant, including “fast food” restaurants;
   B.   In other cases where the user has obtained a special permit for that
specific use from the director, and agrees to undertake whatever self-
monitoring is required to enable the director to equitably determine the
charges and fees based on the waste constituents and characteristics. Such
grinders must shred the waste to a degree that all particles will be carried
freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the sewerage system, with no
particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters). Garbage grinders shall
not be used for refuse, or other waste products resulting from the handling,
storage and sale of fruits and vegetables in wholesale and retail produce
establishments, or wastes from plants engaged in the preparation, processing or
preserving of foods not intended primarily for immediate consumption. Such
discharge shall not cause the city to violate water quality requirements
imposed on it by state or federal regulatory agencies.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.270   Prohibition on discharge of stored liquid wastes.
   Liquid wastes that have been collected and held in tanks or containers shall
not be discharged into the sewerage system, unless first approved in writing by
the director, and unless payment of processing charges has been made. Wastes of
this category include but are not limited to:
   A.   Septic tank pumpings;
   B.   Chemical toilet wastes;
   C.   Pleasure boat wastes;
   D.   Industrial wastes collected in containers or tanks;
   E.   Any other material classified as domestic waste, including chemicals
and other materials stored on the premises of the user which might directly or
indirectly enter the sewerage system, accidentally or otherwise.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.280   Inspections—Access to premises.
   The director or the health officer of the county or any authorized
representative of either the public works department or the health department
is authorized to make such inspections as such department may deem necessary at
any reasonable time in any building, premises or lot for any of the purposes
hereinafter mentioned in this section. No person shall interfere with, prevent
or refuse to permit such authorized persons to enter any building, premises or
lot at any reasonable time for any of the following purposes:
   1.   To determine the size, depth and location of any sewer connection;
   2.   To determine the outlet of any sewer connection by depositing harmless
testing materials in any plumbing fixture attached thereto and flushing the
same, if necessary;
   3.   To determine by measurements and samples the quantity and nature of the
sewage or wastewater being discharged into any sewer;
   4.   To determine the location of the roof, swimming pool, floor and surface
drains and whether or not they connect to a sewer.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.290   Limitations on point of discharge.
   No person shall discharge any substances directly into a manhole or similar
opening in a city sewer; all such discharges shall be through an approved
building sewer.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.300   Special agreement or arrangement allowed.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any person or industrial
concern whereby any water or waste of unusual strength or, character or
composition may be accepted by the city for treatment. Such agreements may be
allowed when in the opinion of the director compelling circumstances warrant an
exception. In the event that any such special agreement or arrangement shall
involve additional or extraordinary expense to the city, such person will be
required to reimburse the city therefor, and to post with the city a payment
bond or other such financial guarantee, as shall be acceptable to the city.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.310   Sewer service charges.
   The city council will by resolution from time to time, establish sewer
service charges.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.320   Enforcement.
   It shall be the duty of the director of public works of the city to enforce
the provisions of this title.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.330   Citation authority.
   A.   The director or director’s agents are granted the authority as provided
in Section 836.5(a) of the California Penal Code to issue citations or make
arrests for violations of this code.
   B.   Citations authorized are declared cumulative in nature for every day
the violation exists once the citation is issued.
   C.   Citation authority is granted for violations which, under state law,
constitute infractions or misdemeanors.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.340   Liability of city.
   A.   Nothing in this title shall be construed as imposing upon the city or
any of its officers, employees or agents, any liability or responsibility for
injury or damage resulting from work approved or performed under any
construction permit issued, or inspection conducted under this title.
   B.   No person shall be relieved from the responsibility to comply with the
requirements of this title because of an error or omission by an officer,
employee or agent of the city.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
13.14.350   Violation—Penalty.
   A.   Infractions. Except as specified in subsection B of this section, any
person, whether as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating or
causing the violation of any of the provisions of this title, or any code
adopted by reference, shall be guilty of an infraction. Any person convicted of
an infraction under the ordinances of this city shall be punished by the
imposition of a fine only, without any imprisonment, as follows:
   1.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars for the first violation;
   2.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars for a second violation of this
title within a twelve-month period; or
   3.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars for a third violation of
this title within a twelve-month period.
   B.   Misdemeanors. Any violation subsequent to the third offence in the same
twelve-month period shall be classified as a misdemeanor and if convicted is
punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars or by imprisonment
not to exceed six months, or by both fine and imprisonment.
   C.   Each Day is a Separate Offense. Each and every day, or portion thereof,
that any violations of this title shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense. The person permitting or committing such offenses may be charged with
separate offenses for each such violation and punished accordingly.
   D.   Civil Remedies and Penalties. Any person, whether acting as principal,
agent, employee or otherwise, who violates the provisions of this title, or any
rule, regulation, order or permit issued thereunder, shall be liable for a
civil penalty not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars for each day that the
violation continues to exist.
   E.   Costs and Damages. Any person, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, violating any provisions of this title or the rules, regulations,
order or permits issued hereunder shall be liable to the city for the costs
incurred, including but not limited to attorney fees and damages suffered by
the city, its agents and agencies as a direct and proximate result of such
violations.
   F.   Cumulative Remedies and Penalties. The remedies or penalties provided
by this title are cumulative to each other and to the remedies or penalties
available under au other laws of the city and the state.
   G.   Recording Violations. The director may cause a copy of the notice of
violation to be recorded in the office of the county recorder, and upon such
recordation subsequent grantees of the premises shall be deemed to have notice
of the potential assessment of costs or penalties against the premises. Failure
to record the notice of violation shall not affect the validity of proceedings
under this title.
(Ord. O-2023-005 § 3 (part), 2023: Ord. 93-15 § 2 (part), 1993)
Chapter 13.16 PUBLIC FACILITIES CHARGES
13.16.010 Purpose.
   The city council has determined that it is reasonable and in the public
interest to enact, and impose, a public facilities charge for the purpose of
providing revenue to recover a fair share of the cost of additional capacity
for sewer facilities from those properties which, as a part of their
development and use, create needs for those facilities. The council finds that
the public would benefit from a logical long-range approach to the financing of
necessary central facilities. The public facilities charge prescribed in this
chapter is designed and calculated to be of such amount of revenue as will
eventually create reasonable reserves to pay the new development's share of
basic and essential sewer facilities as the needs arise. (Ord. 93-08 § 1
(part), 1993: prior code § 13.16.010)
13.16.020 Scope.
   Except as provided in this chapter, the public facilities charge provided in
this chapter is separate from and in addition to all other applicable tax,
assessment, charge, or fee otherwise provided by state or local law. (Prior
code § 13.16.020)
13.16.030 Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   "Additional capacity facilities" means public facilities, or the capacity
provided for therein, which include, but are not limited to "for sewer," which
refers to participation in sewer mains eight inches in diameter or over, and
all expansions or additions to the sewage and sewerage collection and treatment
system except service laterals four inches or less in diameter or under.
   "City" means the city of Pismo Beach.
   "Fixture unit" means a quantity equivalent to a flow of one cubic foot per
minute used in evaluating the load producing effects of different kinds of
fixtures on a plumbing system, as identified also in the current adopted
edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code.
   "Gross annexation area" means the total gross land area within the
annexation territory.
   "Net developable acres" means the gross annexation area less the number of
acres that are subject to open space restrictions. "Open space restrictions"
means a fee interest or an open space easement conveyed to the city or other
public agency, and/or a private open space restriction in the form of fee
ownership by a homeowner's association.
   "Subdivision" means all divisions of land which require parcel map or
tentative map approval. (Ord. 93-08 § 1 (part), 1993: prior code § 13.16.030)
13.16.040 Rates—Imposed.
   A public facilities charge is imposed upon the applicants as prescribed at
the following rates:
   A.   Annexation fee, nine hundred thirty-three dollars and thirty-eights
cents per net developable acre or portion thereof.
   B.   Subdivision fee, four hundred sixty dollars per lot or air space
condominium;
   C.   Fixture Fees and Fee Credits:
   1.   Mobilehome park fee, three hundred dollars per space or lot;
   2.   Recreational vehicle park fee, two hundred fifty dollars per space or
lot;
   3.   All other new construction, fifty dollars per fixture unit;
   4.   Fee Credits. For each low flush toilet installed pursuant to Section
15.16.420(B), the developer or remodeler installing such low flush toilet shall
be given a credit of one hundred dollars against the fixture fees;
   5.   Replacement Fixtures. The building fee imposed under the provisions of
this subsection shall apply only to added plumbing fixture units when applied
in reference to additions or remodels of existing structures. The fee shall not
apply when only replacement on a one-for-one basis of existing plumbing
fixtures is being accomplished in conjunction with additions or remodels of
existing structures. (Ord. 93-08 § 1 (part), 1993; Ord. 87-11 § 1, 1987; prior
code § 13.16.040)
13.16.050 Rates—Due date—Collection.
   A.   The annexation fee portion of the public facilities charge imposed in
this chapter shall be paid by the applicant seeking annexation, or by the owner
of property to be annexed, prior to the adoption by the city of the ordinance
approving said annexation.
   If the applicants for one or more of the parcels involved in the application
fail or refuse to pay said annexation fee within thirty days after the city has
sent them notice by certified mail to pay such fees, any or all of the other
property owners involved in the annexation may pay such fees for the benefit of
said parcel or parcels. If said parcel or parcels are included in the final
annexation ordinance, the city shall not thereafter provide sewer service to
said parcel or parcels, or any portion thereof, until the owners thereof pay to
the city, for the benefit and reimbursement of the other property owners who
originally paid such fees, plus compound interest at the maximum legal rate
until paid. The city shall pay all such amounts, when received, to the persons,
or their successors in interest, who originally paid such fees for the benefit
of said parcel or parcels; provided, however, that the city shall have no
obligation in locating the persons who paid the original fees other than to
send written notice by certified mail to the last addresses provided to the
city in writing by said persons; and provided, further, that if said money is
not claimed within five years after the city mails said notice, said money
shall become the property of the city and shall be deposited in the appropriate
facilities funds.
   At the time of annexation, the city shall record on an appropriate form in
the office of the county recorder a notice stating the full amount of all such
fees paid by others for the benefit of said parcel or parcels, and a notice
that no sewer service will be provided to said parcel or parcels by the city
until said amount is repaid in full with interest.
   B.   The subdivision fee portion of the public facilities charge imposed in
this chapter shall be paid by the applicant seeking subdivision approval prior
to the city approving the parcel map or the tentative map for said subdivision.
   C.   The building fee portion of the public facilities charge imposed in
this chapter shall be paid by the applicant seeking a building permit prior to
the city issuing said permit.
   D.   The city administrator shall ascertain that the respective fee
constituting the public facilities charge imposed in this chapter is collected
prior to the city's approval or issuance of any entitlement as prescribed in
this chapter; and shall further ascertain that an application for any such
entitlement be denied until the respective fee constituting that portion of the
public facilities charge has been paid in full. (Ord. 93-08 § 1 (part), 1993;
prior code § 13.16.050)
13.16.060 Use of revenue.
   All revenues derived from the public facilities charge are to be segregated
by accounting practices from all other funds of the city; and that amount
calculated and collected on account of sewer facilities shall be used for no
other purpose than additional capacity sewer facilities, for the residents and
inhabitants of the city. (Ord.93-08 § 1 (part), 1993: prior code § 13.16.060)
13.16.070 Appeals.
   Any person who is aggrieved by any decision required to be made by the city
administrator under this chapter may appeal that decision to the council by
filing a written request with the city clerk within ten days after the
decision, describing with particularity the decision of the city administrator
from which the person appeals. The council shall at its next regular meeting
hear and consider the appeal. In determining the appeal, the council shall
determine whether the city administrator's decision is correct and may affirm,
modify, extend, or overrule that decision. The decision of the council shall be
final. (Prior code § 13.16.070)
Chapter 13.20 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
13.20.010 Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter the words and phrases defined in this section
shall mean as follows:
   "City" means the city of Pismo Beach, a municipal corporation of the state.
   "Commission" means the Public Utilities Commission of the state.
   "Council" means the city council of the city.
   "Person" includes individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships, and their
agents and employees.
   "Poles and overhead wires and associated overhead structures" means poles,
towers, supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located aboveground upon, along,
across or over the public streets, alleys and ways of the city and used or
useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or associated service.
   "Utility" includes all persons or entities supplying electric, communication
or similar or associated service by means of electrical materials or devices.
(Prior code § 12.08.010)
13.20.020 Public hearing.
   The council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain whether
the public necessity, health, safety, or welfare requires the removal of poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures from any public streets,
alleys or ways within designated areas of the city and the underground
installation of wires and facilities for supplying electric, communication, or
similar or associated service. The city clerk shall notify all affected
property owners as shown on the last equalized assessment and utilities
concerned by mail of the time and place of such hearings at least fifteen days
prior to the date thereof pursuant to Streets and Highway Code Section 5896.4.
Each such hearing shall be open to the public and may be continued from time to
time. At each such hearing all persons interested shall be given an opportunity
to be heard. The decision of the council shall be final and conclusive. (Ord.
90-19 § 2(S), 1990; prior code § 12.08.020)
13.20.030 Designation of districts.
   If, after the public hearing the council finds that the public necessity,
health, safety or welfare requires such removal and such underground
installation within a designated area, the council shall, by resolution,
declare such designated area an underground utility district and order such
removal and underground installation. Such resolutions shall include a
description of the area comprising such district and shall fix the time within
which such removal and underground installation shall be accomplished and
within which affected property owners must be ready to receive underground
service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials and
equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of such
underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby. (Prior code § 12.08.030)
13.20.040 Unlawful acts.
   Whenever the council orders the removal of poles and overhead wires and
associated overhead structures as provided in Section
13.20.030, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to erect, construct,
place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate any pole, overhead wire or
associated overhead structure in any public street, alley or way in the
designated area after the date when said overhead facilities may be required to
be removed, except as said overhead facilities are required to furnish service
to an owner or occupant of property prior to the performance by such owner or
occupant or the city engineer of the underground work necessary for such owner
or occupant to continue to receive utility service as provided in Sections
13.20.090 and
13.20.120, and for such reasonable time required to remove said facilities
after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. (Prior code § 12.08.040)
13.20.050 Emergencies or unusual circumstances—Exception.
   The council may grant special permission, on such terms as the council may
deem appropriate, in cases of emergency or unusual circumstances without
discrimination to any person or utility, to erect, construct, install,
maintain, or use or operate poles and overhead wires and associated overhead
structures, notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter. (Prior code §
12.08.050)
13.20.060 Other exceptions.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following types of facilities:
   A.   Poles used exclusively for police and fire alarm boxes or any similar
municipal equipment installed under the supervision and to the satisfaction of
the city engineer;
   B.   Poles and overhead wires and associated overhead structures used
exclusively for street lighting;
   C.   Overhead wires, exclusive of supporting structures, crossing any
portion of an area from which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of such portion, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles and overhead wires and associated
overhead structures are not prohibited;
   D.   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixtures and extending from one location on the building
to another location of the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street;
   E.   Radio antennas, their associated equipment and supporting structures,
used by a utility for furnishing communication services; or
   F.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts. (Prior code § 12.08.060)
13.20.070 Notice to property owners and utility companies.
   A.   Within ten days after the effective date of a resolution adopted
pursuant to Section
13.20.030, the city clerk shall notify all affected utilities and all persons
owning real property within the district created by said resolution of the
adoption thereof. The city clerk shall further notify such affected property
owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such property
desire to continue to receive electric, communication, or similar or associated
service, they or such occupant shall provide all necessary facility changes on
their premises so as to receive such services from the lines of the supplying
utility or utilities at a new location, subject to applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the
commission.
   B.   Notification by the city clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to Section
13.20.030, together with a copy of this chapter, to affected property owners as
such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to the affected
utilities. (Prior code § 12.08.070)
13.20.080 Responsibility of utility companies.
   If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
13.20.030, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the conduits,
conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it under its
applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the commission. (Prior
code § 12.08.080)
13.20.090 Responsibility of property owners.
   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a building or
structure within a district shall perform construction and provide that portion
of the service connection on his property between the facilities referred to in
Section
13.20.080 and the termination facility on or within said building or structure
being served required to be furnished by him in accordance with applicable
rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file
with the commission. If the above is not accomplished by any person within the
time provided for in the resolution enacted pursuant to Section
13.20.030, the city engineer shall give notice in writing to the person in
possession of such premises, and a notice in writing to the owner thereof as
shown on the last equalized assessment roll, to provide the required
underground facilities within ten days after receipt of such notice. (Prior
code § 12.08.090)
13.20.100 Notice—Issuance.
   Notice pursuant to Section
13.20.090 may be given either by personal service or by mail. In case of
service by mail, the notice must be deposited in the United States mail in a
sealed envelope with postage prepaid, addressed to the person in possession of
such premises at such premises, and the notice must be addressed to the owner
thereof as such owners name appears, and must be addressed to such owner's last
known address as the same appears on the last equalized assessment roll of the
county, and when no address appears, to General Delivery, city of Pismo Beach.
If notice is given by mail, such notice shall be deemed to have been received
by the person to whom it has been sent within forty-eight hours after the
mailing thereof. If notice is given by mail to either the owner or occupant of
such premises, the city engineer shall, within forty-eight hours after the
mailing thereof, cause a copy thereof, printed on a card not less than eight
inches by ten inches in size, to be posted in a conspicuous place on said
premises. (Prior code § 12.08.100)
13.20.110 Notice—Contents.
   The notice given pursuant to Section
13.20.090 shall particularly specify what work is required to be done, and
shall state that if said work is not completed within ten days after receipt of
such notice the city engineer will provide such required underground
facilities, in which case the cost and expense thereof will be assessed against
the property benefited and become a lien upon such property. (Prior code §
12.08.110)
13.20.120 Performance of work by city—Assessment.
   If upon the expiration of the ten-day period specified in Section
13.20.110, the required underground facilities have not been provided, the city
engineer shall forthwith proceed to do the work; provided, however, if such
premises are unoccupied and no electric or communication services are being
furnished thereto, the city engineer may, in lieu of providing the required
underground facilities, order the disconnection of all existing connection used
for furnishing electric and communication services to such premises. Upon
completion of the work by the city engineer, he shall file a written report
with the council setting forth the fact that the required underground
facilities have been provided and the cost thereof, together with a legal
description of the property against which such cost is to be assessed. The
council shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing protests against the
assessment of the cost of such work upon such premises, which said time shall
be not less than ten days thereafter. (Prior code § 12.08.120)
13.20.130 Notice of assessment.
   The city engineer shall forthwith, upon the time for hearing such protests
having been fixed, give a notice in writing to the person in possession of such
premises, and a notice in writing to the owner thereof, in the manner provided
in this chapter for the giving of the notice to provide the required
underground facilities, of the time and place that the council will pass upon
said report of the city engineer and will hear protests against such
assessment. Such notice shall also set forth the amount of the proposed
assessment. (Prior code § 12.08.130)
13.20.140 Hearing and confirmation of assessment.
   Upon the date and hour set for the hearing of protests, the council shall
hear and consider the report and all protests, if there be any, and then
proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment. (Prior code § 12.08.140)
13.20.150 Assessment as lien.
   If any assessment is not paid within five days after its confirmation by the
council, the amount of the assessment shall become a lien upon the property
against which the assessment is made by the city engineer, and the city
engineer is directed to turn over to the assessor and tax collector for the
city a notice of lien on each of said properties on which the assessment has
not been paid, and said assessor and tax collector shall add the amount of said
assessment to the next regular bill for taxes levied against the premises upon
which said assessment was not paid. Said assessment shall be due and payable at
the same time as said property taxes are due and payable, and if not paid when
due and payable shall bear interest at the rate of six percent per year. (Prior
code § 12.08.150)
13.20.160 Responsibility of city.
   The city shall remove at its own expense all city-owned equipment from all
poles required to be removed under this chapter in ample time to enable the
owner or user of such poles to remove the same within the time specified in the
resolution enacted pursuant to Section
13.20.030. (Prior code § 12.08.160)
13.20.170 Extension of time.
   In the event that any act required by any party referred to in this chapter
cannot be performed within the time provided in this chapter on account of
shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances or any other circumstances beyond the control of the actor, then
the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be extended for a
period equivalent to the time of such limitations. (Prior code § 12.08.170)
13.20.180 Violation—Penalty.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any person violating any
provision of this chapter or failing to comply with any of its requirements
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars or by imprisonment not
exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each such person
shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day during any portion of
which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed,
continued, or permitted by such person, and shall be punishable therefor as
provided for in this chapter. (Prior code § 12.08.180)
Chapter 13.24 WATER CONSERVATION
13.24.010 Purpose—Intent.
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is:
   1.   To protect the public health, safety, welfare, comfort and convenience
by ensuring that the city water demand does not exceed the available supply of
water;
   2.   To define the steps necessary to ensure sufficient water supply for
human consumption, sanitation and fire protection under all foreseeable water
supply conditions;
   3.   To establish resource management consistent with state law, the
authority of the city to implement resource management regulations and
restrictions with regard to the use of water;
   4.   To maximize the public benefit and prevent unnecessary hardship and
economic impact during periods of water shortages by matching appropriate water
shortage response strategies to various levels of shortage.
   B.   It is the intent of this chapter to recognize that there may be varying
durations and intensities of water shortages, and to apply water use
restrictions and management techniques commensurate with the water supply.
(Ord. 90-10 § 2 (part), 1990: prior code § 13.06.010)
13.24.020 Declaration of water supply conditions.
   A.   The city council shall from time to time adopt resolutions declaring
the level of the city water supply condition, which in turn will dictate the
water conservation measures in effect at any particular time within the city.
The four levels of water supply conditions are:
   1.   Normal water supply condition;
   2.   Moderately restricted water supply condition;
   3.   Severely restricted water supply condition; and
   4.   Critical water supply condition.
   B.Upon adoption of the required resolution, the restrictions and measures
identified in this chapter shall take effect immediately. (Ord. 90-10 § 2
(part), 1990: prior code § 13.06.020)
13.24.030 Normal water supply conditions.
   Normal water supply conditions are typified by the following:
   A.   Use of water which causes runoff onto adjacent properties, non-
irrigated areas, private and public walkways, roadways, gutters, parking lots,
or structures is prohibited.
   B.   Outdoor water use for washing vehicles, boats, paved surfaces,
buildings, and other similar uses shall be attended and have hand-controlled
water devices, which shut off the water immediately when not in use.
   C.   No water shall be used for cleaning driveways, patios, parking lots,
sidewalks, streets, or other such uses except as found necessary by the city to
protect the public health or safety.
   D.   Outdoor irrigation
   1.   Outdoor irrigation is prohibited between the hours of ten a.m. and four
p.m.
   2.   Applying water to outdoor landscapes during and within 48 hours after
measurable rainfall is prohibited.
   E.   Restaurants shall serve drinking water only in response to a specific
request by a customer.
   F.   Using water in a fountain or other decorative water feature, except
where the water is part of a recirculating system, is prohibited.
(Ord. O-2017-003 § 2 (part), 2017; Ord. 90-10 § 2 (part), 1990: prior code §
13.06.030)
13.24.040 Moderately restricted water supply conditions.
   Moderately restricted water supply conditions are typified by the following:
   A.   Use of water which causes runoff onto adjacent properties, non-
irrigated areas, private and public walkways, roadways, gutters, parking lots,
or structures is prohibited.
   B.   Outdoor water use for washing vehicles, boats, paved surfaces,
buildings, and other similar uses shall be attended and have hand-controlled
water devices, which shut off the water immediately when not in use.
   C.   No water shall be used for cleaning driveways, patios, parking lots,
sidewalks, streets, or other such uses except as found necessary by the city to
protect the public health or safety.
   D.   Outdoor irrigation
   1.   Outdoor irrigation is prohibited between the hours of ten a.m. and four
p.m.
   2.   Applying water to outdoor landscapes during and within 48 hours after
measurable rainfall is prohibited.
   3.   Irrigation of private and public landscaping, turf areas, and gardens
is permitted at even-numbered addresses only on Mondays and Thursdays, and at
odd-numbered addresses only on Tuesdays and Fridays. All customers are directed
to use no more water than necessary to maintain landscaping.
   E.   Restaurants shall serve drinking water only in response to a specific
request by a customer.
   F.   Using water in a fountain or other decorative water feature, except
where the water is part of a recirculating system, is prohibited.
   G.   Use of potable water for compaction or dust control purposes in
construction activities is prohibited.
(Ord. O-2017-003 § 2 (part), 2017; Ord. 90-10 § 2 (part), 1990: prior code §
13.06.040)
13.24.050 Severely restricted water supply conditions.
   Severely restricted water supply conditions are typified by the following:
   A.   Use of water which causes runoff onto adjacent properties, non-
irrigated areas, private and public walkways, roadways, gutters, parking lots,
or structures is prohibited.
   B.   Outdoor water use for washing vehicles, boats, paved surfaces,
buildings, and other similar uses shall be attended and have hand-controlled
water devices, which shut off the water immediately when not in use.
   C.   No water shall be used for cleaning driveways, patios, parking lots,
sidewalks, streets, or other such uses except as found necessary by the city to
protect the public health or safety.
   D.   Outdoor irrigation
   1.   Outdoor irrigation is prohibited between the hours of ten a.m. and four
p.m.
   2.   Applying water to outdoor landscapes during and within 48 hours after
measurable rainfall is prohibited.
   3.   Irrigation of private and public landscaping, turf areas and gardens is
permitted at even-numbered addresses only on Mondays and Thursdays, and at odd-
numbered addresses only on Tuesdays and Fridays. All customers are directed to
use no more water than necessary to maintain landscaping.
   E.   Restaurants shall serve drinking water only in response to a specific
request by a customer.
   F.   Using water in a fountain or other decorative water feature, except
where the water is part of a recirculating system, is prohibited.
   G.   Use of potable water for compaction or dust control purposes in
construction activities is prohibited.
   H.   Emptying and refilling swimming pools and commercial spas is prohibited
except to prevent structural damage and/or to provide for the public health and
safety.
(Ord. O-2017-003 § 2 (part), 2017; Ord. 90-10 § 2 (part), 1990: prior code §
13.06.050)
13.24.060 Critical water supply conditions.
   In addition to the conditions specified in Section
13.24.050, the city council may impose any water rationing requirement as it
deems appropriate to protect public health, safety, welfare, comfort and
convenience.
(Ord. O-2017-003 § 2 (part), 2017; Ord. 90-10 § 2 (part), 1990: prior code §
13.06.060)
13.24.070 Penalties for noncompliance.
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may result in termination of
water service until such violation is corrected, and until all appropriate fees
and penalties are paid in full.
   B.   An administrative procedure shall be established by resolution of the
city council from time to time for enforcement of this section. Such procedures
shall include, without limitation, at least the following factors:
   1.   Provisions for notice to the alleged offender, including the furnishing
of informational material and advice where appropriate;
   2.   Comprehensive guidelines for staff use in determining whether or not
the offense justifies disconnection of the water service;
   3.   An opportunity for the alleged offender to be heard at the department
head level or above before the water service is disconnected, except in cases
of continuing deliberate water wasting;
   4.   Provisions for city recovery of all staff costs, including overhead,
for any second or greater offense within any one-year period;
   5.   A schedule of additional civil administrative penalties for any third
or greater offense within any one year period;
   6.   The right to appeal first to the public works commission, and then to
the city council, subject to prior deposit of all fees and penalties then due
and owing, plus the payment of appeal fees as established by the procedural
resolution. (Ord. 90-10 § 2 (part), 1990: prior code § 13.06.070)
13.24.080 Violation--Penalty.
   In addition to, and completely separate from, the civil enforcement
provisions of the ordinance codified in this chapter, any person who knowingly
and wilfully violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
criminal misdemeanor as provided in the general penalty provisions of this
code. All previous attempts by the city to obtain compliance by the defendant
may be introduced as evidence of the offender's knowledge and wilfulness. (Ord.
90-10 § 2 (part), 1990: prior code § 13.06.080)
Chapter 13.28 STORMWATER
 
13.28.010 Title.
   This chapter may also be cited as the "Stormwater Quality Ordinance" of the
city. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.020 Purpose and intent.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to ensure the health, safety, and
general welfare of citizens, and protect and enhance the quality of
watercourses and water bodies in a manner pursuant to and consistent with the
Clean Water Act by reducing pollutants in storm water discharges to the maximum
extent practicable, by prohibiting non-storm water discharges to the storm
drain system, and improving storm water management. (Ord. O- 2013-009 § 1,
2013)
13.28.030 Definitions.
   The terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
   "Administrative technical documents" or "ATD" means the following documents
adopted by the city. The most current versions of these documents shall be
considered in use for purposes of interpreting this chapter.
   A.   Storm drain atlas;
   B.   Pismo Creek Edna Valley Watershed Management Plan;
   C.   Urban water management plan;
   D.   Pismo Creek Edna Area Watershed Management Plan;
   E.   Water reuse study;
   F.   City engineering standards;
   G.   City guidance document;
   H.   City stormwater management program;
   I.   NPDES general permit.
   "Authorized representative" means any person designated in writing to the
director by the property owner to act on behalf of the property owner.
   "Best management practice" or "BMP" means activities, practices, and
procedures to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or
indirectly to the storm drain system and waters of the United States. BMPs
include but are not limited to treatment facilities to remove pollutants from
storm water; operating and maintenance procedures; facility management
practices to control runoff, spillage or leaks of non-storm water, waste
disposal, and drainage from materials storage; erosion and sediment control
practices; and the prohibition of specific activities, practices, and
procedures and such other provisions as the city determines appropriate for the
control of pollutants.
   "City" shall mean the City of Pismo Beach.
   "Clean Water Act" means the federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 USC 1251
et seq., and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   "Construction activity" means any of the following activities: including but
not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, demolition and
construction.
   "Director" means the public works director of the city, acting either
directly or through an authorized designee.
   "Groundwater" means any naturally occurring subsurface water, including
springs.
   "Hazardous material" means any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed, as defined in Section 25501 of the Health
and Safety Code.
   "Illegal discharge" means any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge
to the storm drain system, except as exempted by this chapter.
   "Illicit connection" means any of the following:
   A.   Any conveyance system, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, sewage, process wastewater, wash water, pool or spa water.
   B.   Any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks
not currently exempted or permitted, regardless of whether the drain or
connection has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by a government
agency.
   C.   Any drain or conveyance connected from any land use to the storm drain
system which has not been documented and approved by the city.
   D.   Any unpermitted connection of a storm water system to the publicly
owned treatment works as defined in this chapter.
   "Industrial activity" means any activity subject to a NPDES industrial
permit as defined in 40 CFR Section 122.26(b)(14).
   "Municipal separate storm sewer system" or "MS4" means the public portion of
the storm drain system.
   "National pollutant discharge elimination system" or "NPDES" means the
general, group, and individual storm water discharge permits which regulate
facilities defined in federal NPDES regulations pursuant to the Clean Water
Act.
   "Non-storm water discharge" means any discharge to the storm drain system
that is not composed entirely of storm water.
   "Pollutant" means anything which causes or contributes to pollution
including, but not limited to, paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes, either from domestic or wild animals or birds; wastes and
residues that result from constructing a building or structure, including but
not limited to dirt, sediment, slurry, and concrete residuals; and noxious or
offensive matter of any kind.
   "Pollution" means the human-made or human-induced alteration of the quality
of waters by waste or pollutants, or the presence of a substance in the
environment that, because of its chemical composition or quantity, prevents the
functioning of natural processes and produces undesirable environmental and
health effects or alters the quality of the water to a degree that unreasonably
affects the waters for beneficial uses or the facilities which serve these
beneficial uses.
   "Porter-Cologne Act" means the Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act
(California Water Code Section 13000 et seq.) as amended.
   "Premises" means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land
whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   "Storm drain system" means any public or private facilities by which storm
water is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to roads,
sidewalks, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities,
retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered drainage
channels and swales, reservoirs, lakes, creeks, waters of the United States and
other drainage structures which are within the city and are not part of a
publicly owned treatment works as defined at 40 CFR Section 122.2.
   A.   Public facilities are those owned, maintained and operated by the city
and other public agencies including but not limited to the enclosed system of
pipelines, catch basins, manholes and junction structures.
   B.   Private facilities are those on private property or under the control
of persons other than the city or other public agencies.
   "Storm water" means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting
entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from
such precipitation.
   "Storm water pollution prevention plan" or "SWPPP" means a plan that
identifies sources of pollution and provides direction during construction to
the contractor and owner, using BMPs to prevent pollution from occurring.
   "Waters of the United States" means surface watercourses and water bodies as
defined at 40 CFR Section 122.2, including all natural waterways and definite
channels and depressions in the earth that may carry water, even though such
waterways may only carry water during rains and storms and may not carry storm
water at and during all times and seasons. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.040 Applicability.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands within the city. (Ord. O-2013-
009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.050 Responsibility for administration.
   The director shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.060 Severability.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.070 Regulatory consistency.
   This chapter shall be construed to assure consistency with the requirements
of the Clean Water Act and Porter-Cologne Act and acts amended thereto or
supplementary thereto, or any applicable implementing regulations. (Ord. O-
2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.080 Ultimate responsibility of discharger.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that a
person's compliance will ensure that there will be no contamination, pollution,
nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city, or any of its
employees or agents, for any damages that result from any person's reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. O-
2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.090 Prohibition of illegal discharges.
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the storm
drain system any materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters
containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable
water quality standards, other than storm water, including runoff as described
in
Chapter 13.24 ("Water Conservation").
   B.   An illegal discharge is assumed to have occurred if prohibited material
is placed, blown, washed, tracked or in any way allowed to accumulate in any
part of the MS4 so that it can be conveyed by storm water. (Ord. O-2013-009 §
1, 2013)
13.28.100 Exceptions to discharge.
   No person shall commence, conduct, or continue any illegal discharge to the
storm drain system except as follows. Discharges from the following will not be
considered a source of pollutants to the storm drain system and to waters of
the United States when properly managed to ensure that no potential pollutants
are present, and therefore they shall not be considered illegal discharges
unless determined to cause a violation of the provisions of the Porter-Cologne
Act, Clean Water Act, or this chapter:
   A.   Uncontaminated groundwater, air conditioning condensation,
uncontaminated roof, foundation, footing, or French drains (including active
groundwater dewatering systems), flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
residential car washing, and fire fighting flows.
   B.   Non-storm water discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, low-
threat discharge permit or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and
administered by the state of California under the authority of the federal
environmental protection agency; provided, that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations; and provided, that written approval has been
granted by the city for any discharge to the storm drain system.
   C.   With written concurrence of the central coast regional water quality
control board, the city may exempt in writing other non-storm water discharges,
which are not a source of pollutants to the storm drain system nor waters of
the United States. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.110 Prohibition of illicit connections.
   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system or to a publicly owned treatment works is
prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. (Ord. O- 2013-006 § 1, 2013)
13.28.120 Waste disposal prohibitions.
   A.   Waste. No person shall throw, deposit, leave, maintain, keep, or permit
to be thrown, deposited, left, or maintained, in or upon any public or private
property, driveway, parking area, street, alley, sidewalk, component of the
storm drain system, or water of the United States, any pollutant, so that the
same may cause or contribute to pollution.
   B.   Sidewalk cross drainage. No person shall place, erect or maintain any
rainwater leader drain, pipe, conduit or swale as to convey, carry or discharge
any water on or to any sidewalk in the city, but all leaders, drains, pipes,
conduits, and swales conveying, carrying or discharging water exempt under this
chapter to or beyond the exterior boundary of the lot or premises on which the
same is erected, placed or maintained, must be led under the sidewalk to the
gutter. Facilities not in compliance with this section shall be considered a
public nuisance and abated in accordance with the provisions in
Chapter 8.20 ("Nuisances").
   C.   Drainage to public facilities. No person shall cause water to be
deposited to the public street or other public facility which results in an
organic growth of any kind in the public facility, particularly that which
creates a slick surface. Such growth shall be considered a public nuisance and
abated in accordance with the provisions in
Chapter 8.20 ("Nuisances"). (Ord. O-2013- 009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.130 Animals.
   A.   Property maintenance. Where it is determined by the city or by the
central coast regional water quality control board that an area used by animals
is affecting water quality, the city will require the property owner or
authorized representative to implement measures, which may include installation
of preclusionary devices, to eliminate the pollution and prevent the migration
of waste components to the storm drain system. Installation of devices or
measures may require permits from the city or other regulatory agency.
Installation, maintenance and permitting are the responsibility of the property
owner.
   B.   Feeding. No person shall feed feral animals or deposit or leave any
foodstuff of any kind or nature, except in a trash receptacle provided for that
purpose.
   C.   Domesticated animal waste. All persons owning, possessing, in control
of, or otherwise responsible for an animal, must promptly collect, pick up and
remove all fecal matter left by the animal on public or private lands. Animals
in agricultural areas are not covered under this subsection if the area
complies with subsection A. of this section or is covered under separate
regulation. (Ord. O- 2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.140 Compliance with industrial or construction activity NPDES storm water
discharge permit.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance, in a form acceptable to the director, shall be provided:
   A.   Prior to or as a condition of a subdivision map, site plan, building
permit, or development or improvement plan;
   B.   Upon inspection of the facility;
   C.   During any enforcement proceeding or action; or
   D.   For any other reasonable cause. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.150 Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce storm water and
pollutants.
   A.   Authorization to adopt BMPs. The city recognizes the current
requirements of the state water resources control board for general permits for
construction, industrial and municipal activities. In addition to the
requirements of these general permits, the city may adopt additional
requirements identifying BMPs for any activity, operation, or facility which
may cause or contribute to degradation, pollution, or contamination of storm
water, the storm drain system, or waters of the United States.
   B.   Authorization to impose BMP. Where the city or any federal, state of
California, or regional agency has adopted BMP requirements for any activity,
operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to storm water pollution
or contamination, illicit discharges, and/or discharge of non-storm water or
pollutants, or degradation to the storm drain system or waters of the United
States, every person undertaking such activity or operation, or owning or
operating such facility, shall comply with such requirements within the time
limit or under the conditions set forth in the BMP.
   C.   SWPPP submittal and maintenance. Prior to the city issuing any permit
for activities which may contribute to pollution of the storm drain system, the
person seeking the permit must submit a SWPPP in compliance with NPDES. The
SWPPP shall include detailed information describing the potential sources of
pollution that may be created by the project being permitted and the
recommended BMPs that will be applied. The information shall be sufficient to
be used to direct a contractor to perform the BMPs and to recognize whether the
BMP is achieving the required effect. The director will approve the SWPPP once
the director is satisfied that the SWPPP meets the requirements of this
chapter. The SWPPP is a "living" document, meaning it must be adjusted during
the course of the construction activity to adapt to new or unforeseen
conditions and changing work to maintain compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   D.   New development and redevelopment design standards. The city's design
standards require appropriate BMPs to control the volume, rate, and potential
pollutant load of storm water runoff from newly developed and redeveloped
property. Such requirements are incorporated, unless specifically waived by the
director, in any land use entitlement and construction or building-related
permit to be issued relative to such development or redevelopment. The owner
and developer shall comply with the terms, provisions, and conditions of such
land use entitlements and building permits as required in this section.
   E.   Compliance. A person with a project that includes a grading permit or
any other permit that is likely to create a source of pollution shall submit an
erosion control plan. Should a project have inadequate BMPs, resulting in an
illegal discharge, and if the permit holder fails immediately to implement or
maintain necessary BMPs to comply with this chapter, upon receiving notice from
the city, the city will issue a stop work order on the project until such
occurs. Compliance with this section does not absolve a person from other
penalties and fines as provided for in this chapter.
   F.   Responsibility to implement BMPs. Any person engaged in activities or
operations, or owning facilities or property which will or may result in
pollutants entering storm water or the storm drain system, shall implement BMPs
to prevent and reduce such pollutants. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes into the storm drain system. The owner or
operator shall provide and maintain facilities to prevent accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes at the owner's or operator's expense.
   G.   Responsibility to identify and post. For the purposes of implementing
Section 374 of the California Penal Code and the requirements of this chapter,
property owners are required to mark and/or post all drainage inlets that have
a connection to the ocean or creek system, either directly or through a portion
of the storm drain system, as follows:
   1.   Signs. Property owners of an apartment or condominium complex
consisting of four or more units shall be responsible for causing a sign to be
posted in a conspicuous location as close as possible to each drainage inlet
with the following wording in English and Spanish:
   DRAINS TO OCEAN OR CREEK
    - DUMP NO WASTE
   PBMC SEC 13.28.150
   PENAL CODE SECTION 374
Sign specifications shall be available from the public works department,
engineering division.
   2.   Placard/medallion. Property owners shall be responsible for causing a
placard/medallion, conforming to city engineering standards, to be installed at
each drainage inlet.
   3.   Maintenance. Property owners shall be responsible for maintaining signs
and placards, ensuring they remain legible. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.160 Maintenance.
   A.   General. Property owners are responsible to maintain their premises in
such a way as to comply with this chapter and prevent migration of pollutants
into the storm drain system.
   B.   Construction storm water devices. BMPs installed during construction or
as measures for postconstruction storm water shall be maintained as required to
ensure proper operation. Failure to maintain construction BMPs will result in a
stop work order being issued until the site is in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Postconstruction storm water devices. Property owners of development or
redevelopment projects which require installation of postconstruction storm
water devices shall submit a maintenance plan or manufacturer's maintenance
guide for those devices as part of the project submittal. The plan or guide
provided shall be considered the minimum maintenance required, with additional
maintenance performed as needed to comply with this chapter.
   1.   All property owners with postconstruction storm water devices on their
property shall enter into an agreement with the city, to be recorded,
documenting the devices, the required maintenance plan and the responsibility
by the property owners for maintenance and reporting.
   2.   All property owners with postconstruction storm water devices on their
property shall submit to the director annual inspection/maintenance reports to
confirm continued compliance with this chapter. Reports shall be signed and
certified by the property owner or the authorized representative. (Ord. O-2013-
009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.170 Watercourse protection.
   A.   Every person owning, leasing property or otherwise controlling property
("owner") through which a watercourse originates or passes shall keep and
maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free of trash,
debris, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly
retard the flow of water through the watercourse. The owner shall not remove
healthy bank vegetation beyond that actually necessary for maintenance, nor
perform vegetation management in such a manner as to increase the vulnerability
of the watercourse to erosion. The owner shall be responsible for maintaining
and stabilizing that portion of the watercourse that is within that owner's
property, within regulatory frameworks, to a reasonable standard as determined
by the director, in order to protect against erosion and degradation of the
watercourse originating or passing through the property.
   B.   Every owner of property through which a watercourse originates or
passes shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to
a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   C.   Every owner is responsible to comply with all laws, rules, and
regulations of state or federal agencies that may have jurisdiction over
wetlands and waterways. Maintenance must be done in a manner that does not
adversely impact waterway species. (O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.180 Connections to public storm drain system.
   A.   Permit required. Any person who owns an existing connection or intends
to connect directly to a public storm drain system must have a permit issued by
the city to do so.
   B.   Compliance notice. The director shall require by written notice that a
person with an illicit connection to the public storm drain system comply with
the requirements of this chapter to eliminate or secure city approval for the
connection by a specified date, regardless of whether or not the connection had
been established or approved prior to the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, or through prior permit. If the person with an
illicit connection can demonstrate to the director that an illegal discharge
will not occur, the person may request the director's approval to maintain the
connection and shall obtain the required permit.
   C.   Sampling and reporting. Any connection to the public storm drain system
must include a sampling port to allow the city to verify discharge quality. The
person owning the connection to the public storm drain system must submit to
the director self-monitoring reports to assess and assure continued compliance
with this chapter. Reports shall be signed by the property owner or the
authorized representative. Sampling and reporting shall conform to the
provisions of the permit.
   D.   Agreement concerning permit. Any person to whom the city has issued a
permit under this section shall enter into an agreement with the city, which
agreement shall be recorded and shall reflect the provisions of this section.
(Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.190 Requirement to eliminate illegal discharges and remediate.
   Whenever the director determines that a discharge of pollutants is
occurring, or has occurred, and the discharge has caused, or will cause,
pollution of storm water or the storm drain system, or determines an illegal
discharge is occurring or has occurred, the director will require by written
notice to the property owner and/or their authorized representative (A)
remediation of the pollution and restoration of the affected property within a
specified time/date, and (B) discontinuance of the discharge and, if necessary,
implementation of measures to eliminate the source of the discharge to prevent
the occurrence of future illegal discharges. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.200 Requirement to monitor and analyze.
   The director may require any person engaged in any activity, and/or owning
or operating any facility, which may cause or contribute to storm water
pollution, illegal discharges, and/or non-storm water discharges to the storm
drain system, to undertake, at the person's expense, a monitoring, analysis,
and reporting program, as approved by the director, to determine compliance
with this chapter. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.210 Reporting and remediating discharges—Retention of records.
   A.   Notification. In the event of a release of a hazardous material, any
property owner, authorized person or any other person responsible for property,
a facility or an operation, shall immediately notify emergency response
officials of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services (911).
   In the event of a release of any pollutant such that it enters an enclosed
system or waterway, any property owner, authorized person or any other person
responsible for a property, a facility or an operation shall notify the
director in person, by phone, or by facsimile no later than 5:00 p.m. of the
same business day or, if on a weekend or holiday, by 10:00 a.m. of the next
business day. Notification in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the director within two business days of the in-
person or phone notice.
   B.   Remediation. Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any
property owner, authorized person, or any other person responsible for
property, a facility or an operation, or the person responsible for emergency
response for a facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected
release of pollutants which may result or have resulted in illegal discharges
or pollutants discharging into storm water or the storm drain system from the
property, facility or operation, the person shall take all necessary steps to
ensure the containment, and remediation of such release.
   C.   Commercial/industrial properties. If the reported discharge emanates
from a commercial or industrial property, the owner or operator of the property
shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions
taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least
three years from the date of the occurrence and be available for inspection by
the director. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.220 Authority to inspect, sample, establish sampling devices, and test.
   A.   Whenever the director determines it is necessary to make an inspection
to verify compliance with this chapter, investigate potential violations of
this chapter, or to make an inspection to enforce any provision of this
chapter, or whenever the director has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists a condition which constitutes a violation of this chapter, the director
may enter the premises during normal business hours to inspect, take water
samples, perform any testing deemed necessary to aid in the inspection, record
site activities, and inspect and copy records related to storm water
compliance. During any inspection, the director may establish on any property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. If
the director is refused entry after a request to enter and inspect has been
made, the city may seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in
obtaining such entry.
   B.   If the director has reasonable cause to believe that discharges to the
storm drain system are so hazardous, unsafe, or dangerous as to require
immediate inspection to safeguard public health or safety or the integrity of
the storm drain system, the director shall have the right to immediately enter
and inspect the property and may use any reasonable means required to effect
such entry and make such inspection. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.230 Notice of violation.
   A.   Violation conditions. Whenever the director finds that a person has
violated this chapter, the director may issue to the person a notice of
violation and order compliance. Such notice may require without limitation:
   1.   Monitoring, providing analyses, and reporting;
   2.   Eliminating illicit connections or discharges;
   3.   Cease and desist of discharges, practices, or operations;
   4.   Abating or remediating storm water pollution or contamination hazards,
and restoring the affected property;
   5.   Implementing source control or treatment BMPs; and
   6.   Paying a fine and administrative and remediation costs.
   B.   Abatement. If abatement of a condition and/or restoration of affected
property is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
abatement or restoration must be completed. The notice shall further provide
that if there is not compliance with the notice within the established
deadline, the city may abate the condition and/or restore the property, and the
expenses thereof shall be charged to the property owner and/or the person
responsible for the violation. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.240 Appeal.
   Except as provided in Section
13.28.260, urgency abatement, any person receiving a notice of violation may
appeal following the procedures in
Chapter 1.08 ("Administrative Appeals"). (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.250 Abatement by city.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, and ten days have passed, or if an appeal of
the notice of violation was filed and ten days have passed from the date of the
decision upholding the decision of the director, then the city or its agents
may enter upon the property and take any and all measures necessary to abate
the violation and/or restore the property. If the city or its agents is refused
entry for this purpose, the city shall seek the assistance of any court of
competent jurisdiction to authorize entry. It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the
city or its agents to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.260 Urgency abatement.
   A.   Immediate abatement. The director may require immediate abatement of
any violation of this chapter that constitutes an immediate and significant
threat to the health, safety or well-being of the public.
   B.   Construction sites. The director shall give verbal notice and issue a
notice of violation to persons owning or controlling construction sites with
inadequate erosion and sediment controls that such controls must be put in
place immediately, and the city shall not allow any other site work until the
controls are in place.
   C.   Failure to abate. If a violation as described in subsection A. of this
section is not immediately abated, the city is authorized to enter the premises
and take any and all measures required to abate the violation. Any expenses
incurred by the city related to such abatement shall be charged to the property
owner. Any relief obtained under this section shall not prevent the city from
seeking other and further relief authorized under this chapter. (Ord. O-2013-
009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.270 Charging cost of abatement/liens.
   A.   Notice of cost. If the city has incurred costs to abate a violation,
the director shall notify the property owner within thirty days of the cost,
including administrative costs.
   B.   Appeal. Within fifteen days of the director's notice, the property
owner may file with the city clerk a written appeal objecting to the amount of
the costs. The city clerk shall set the matter for hearing by the city council.
The decision of the city council shall be final.
   C.   Payment due date—failure to pay. If no appeal has been filed or if an
appeal has been filed and the city council has made a decision on the appeal,
any cost due shall be paid in full within ten days. If the costs are not paid
in full within ten days, the costs shall become a special assessment against
the property and shall constitute a lien on the property. The information shall
be provided to the county auditor so that the auditor may enter the amount of
the assessment against the property, as it appears on the current assessment
roll, and the tax collector include the amount of the assessment on the bill
for taxes levied against the property. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.280 Violations.
   A.   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a code violation and public nuisance, and may be summarily abated or
restored by the city at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate,
enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be undertaken by
the city.
   B.   Penalties and fines. A violation of, or failure to comply with, any of
the requirements of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and may be
punished as set forth in
Chapter 1.20 ("General Penalty"). Violators are also subject to fines provided
for in the administrative code provisions of this code,
Chapter 1.24 ("Administrative Code Enforcement Procedure"), revocation of their
business license, and/or for persons seeking to work in the right-of-way, a
prohibition from working within the right-of-way for a period of two years.
   C.   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and
remedies authorized by this chapter, the director may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain marking, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
13.28.290 Acts potentially resulting in a violation of the Clean Water Act and/
or the Porter-Cologne Act.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any provision of
any requirement issued pursuant to this chapter may also be in violation of the
Clean Water Act and/or the Porter-Cologne Act and may be subject to the
provisions of those acts including civil and criminal penalties. Any
enforcement action authorized under this chapter shall also include written
notice to the violator of such potential liability. (Ord. O-2013-009 § 1, 2013)
Chapter 13.32 COMMUNITY CHOICE ENERGY
13.32.010 Community choice energy.
   Based upon the recitals set forth in City of Pismo Beach Ordinance No. O-
2019-005, and in order to provide businesses and residents within the city with
a choice of power providers and with the benefits described in the ordinance
enacting this section, the city council hereby elects to implement a community
choice aggregation program within the jurisdiction of the city by participating
as a group in such community choice aggregation programs as may be specified by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. O-2019-005 § 2, 2019)
Title 15 BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Chapter 15.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS
15.04.010 Adoption of construction codes.
   A.   Ten documents, each of which are on file in City offices, marked and
designated as (1) the 2022 edition of the California Building Code (Volumes 1
and 2) (Part 2 of Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations), (2) the 2022
edition of the California Residential Code (Part 2.5 of Title 24 of the
California Code of Regulations), (3) the 2022 edition of the California
Electrical Code (Part 3 of Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations), (4)
the 2022 edition of the California Mechanical Code (Part 4 of Title 24 of the
California Code of Regulations), (5) the 2022 edition of the California
Plumbing Code (Part 5 of Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations), (6)
the 2022 edition of California Energy Code (Part 6 of Title 24 of the
California Code of Regulations), (7) the 2022 edition of the California
Historical Building Code (Part 8 of Title 24 of the California Code of
Regulations), (8) the 2022 edition of the California Existing Building Code
(Part 10 of Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations), (9) the 2022
edition of the California Green Building Standards Code (Part 11 of Title 24 of
the California Code of Regulations, and (10) the 2021 edition of the
International Property Maintenance Code published by the International Code
Council are hereby adopted, including chapters and sections of the 2021
International Building Code, 2021 International Residential Code, 2021 Uniform
Mechanical Code, 2021 Uniform Plumbing Code, and 2020 National Electrical Code
not adopted by agencies of the state of California not adopted by agencies of
the State of California, and including appendices thereto, as the Building
Construction Regulations of the City of Pismo Beach. The provisions of such are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
Chapter except as modified in Chapter 15.08.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
15.04.020 Building Official designated.
   The Building Official is hereby designated as the building official and code
official for the City of Pismo Beach. Where the "authority having jurisdiction"
is used in the adopted codes, it shall mean the building official.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
15.04.030 Referenced codes and standards.
   Where other codes and standards are referred to in the codes adopted in
Section 15.04.010, the following shall apply:
   A.   International Building Code shall mean California Building Code or
California Residential Code, as applicable.
   B.   International Plumbing Code shall mean California Plumbing Code.
   C.   International Fuel Gas Code shall mean California Plumbing Code.
   D.   International Mechanical Code shall mean California Mechanical Code.
   E.   NFPA 70 and National Electrical Code shall mean California Electrical
Code.
   F.   International Residential Code for One- and Two-family Dwellings shall
mean California Residential Code.
   G.   International Fire Code shall mean California Fire Code.
   H.   International Existing Building Code shall mean California Existing
Building Code.
   I.   International Zoning Code shall mean applicable provisions of Chapters
16 and 17 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
Chapter 15.08 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
15.08.010 Amendments; California Building Code.
   The California Building Code adopted in Section
15.04.010 is modified, amended and/or supplemented as follows:
   A.   Delete Appendices A, B, D, F, and K, M, N, O.
   B.   Amend Section 101.1 to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the California Building
Code, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   C.   Amend Section 101.4 to read as follows:
      101.4 Referenced codes. The other codes listed in Sections 101.4.1
through 101.4.8 and referenced elsewhere in this code shall be considered part
of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each reference.
   D.   Add Section 101.4.8 to read as follows:
      101.4.8 Electrical. The provisions of the California Electrical Code
shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including alterations,
repairs, and replacement of electrical equipment, appliances, fixtures,
fittings and appurtenances thereto.
   E.   Amend 103.1 to read as follows:
      103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The Building Division is hereby
created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the building
official.
   F.   Add Section 104.3.1 to read as follows:
      104.3.1 Citations. The building official, or duly authorized agent, is
granted the authority as provided in Section 836.5(a) of the California Penal
Code to issue citations for violations of this chapter.
   G.   Add Section 104.12 to read as follows:
      104.12 Discovery of archaeological resources. In the event archaeological
resources are unearthed or discovered during any construction activities, the
building official shall be notified so that the extent and location of
discovered materials may be recorded by a qualified archaeologist and/or Native
American, and disposition of artifacts may be accomplished in accordance with
applicable laws and ordinances. If discovered archaeological resources are
found to include human remains, or in any other case when human remains are
discovered during construction, the building official shall notify the county
coroner. If human remains are found to be of an ancient age and of
archaeological and spiritual significance, the building official shall notify
the Native American Heritage Commission.
   H.   Amend Section 105.2, Building exemptions only, to read as follows:
      105.2 Work exempt from permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of
this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in
any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the
following:
   Building:
   1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage shed,
playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area is not greater than 120
square feet (11 m2).
   2.   Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high.
   3.   Oil derricks.
   4.   Retaining walls and non-retaining walls, including masonry and concrete
free-standing walls, that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height measured from
the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge
or impounding Class I, II or IIIA liquids.
   5.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity is not greater
than 5,000 gallons (18 925 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or width is
not greater than 2:1.
   6.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above adjacent
grade, and not over any basement or story below and are not part of an
accessible route.
   7.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops, and
similar finish work.
   8.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
   9.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy that
are less than 24 inches (610 mm) deep, are not greater than 5,000 gallons (18
925 L) and are installed entirely above ground.
   10.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agriculture
purposes, not including service systems.
   11.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one- and
two-family dwellings.
   12.   Window awnings in Group R-3 and U occupancies, supported by an
exterior wall that do not project more than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the
exterior wall and do not require additional support.
   13.   Non-fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and partitions
not over 5 feet 9 inches in height.
   I.   Amend Section 105.3.2 to read as follows:
      105.3.2 Time limitation of application. An application for a permit for
any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 365 days after the
date of filing, unless a permit has been issued; except that the building
official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional
periods not exceeding 90 days each. No extension of time granted by the
building official shall extend the application beyond the effective date of the
next edition of the triennial California Building Standards Code. In order to
renew action on an application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit
plans and pay a new plan review fee.
   J.   Add Section 109.2.1 to read as follows:
      109.2.1 Plan review fees. When submittal documents are required by
Section 107.1, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting the
submittal documents for plan review. Said plan review fee shall be in
accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing body.
   Separate plan review fees shall apply to permits for retaining walls and
major drainage structures in conjunction with grading. For excavation and fill
on the same site, the plan review fee for grading shall be based on the volume
of excavation or fill, whichever is greater.
   The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees from the
permit fees specified in Section 109.2 and are in addition to the permit fees.
   Where submittal documents are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional plan review, or where the project involves deferred submittal items
as defined in Section 107.3.4.1, an additional plan review fee may be charged
at a rate established by the applicable governing authority.
   K.   Amend Section 109.4 to read as follows:
      109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.
      109.4.1 Investigation. Whenever any work for which a permit is required
by this code has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
      109.4.2 Fee. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall
be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by
this code. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person
from compliance with all other provisions of this code nor from any penalty
prescribed by law.
   L.   Delete the exception to Section 110.3.5.
   M.   Add Section 112.4 to read as follows:
      112.4 Underground utility services. All new electric, telephone,
television, and other communication service connections, for all new, altered,
or enlarged buildings shall be provided by underground wiring. Extension of
electric or communication distribution lines to serve such projects shall be
underground wiring.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Replacement or relocation of electric service equipment served by
existing overhead wiring.
      2.   Where determined by the building official to be impractical or
infeasible within the standards and practices of the utility or other companies
providing such services.
   Where the utility or other company's distribution system is underground, the
service lines shall terminate at a connection point designated by the utility
company. Where the utility or other company's distribution is overhead, the
service lines shall terminate as a pole riser on a pole designated by the
utility company.
   N.   Amend Chapter 113 to read as follows:
      113.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions
or determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretations of the California Building Standards Code and the International
Property Maintenance Code, there shall be and is hereby created a Board of
Appeals. Said Board shall also serve as the Housing Appeals Board and the Local
Appeals Board referenced in the California Building Standards Code. The
building official shall be an ex officio member and shall act as secretary to
said board but shall have no vote upon any matter before the board. The Board
of Appeals shall be appointed on an "as needed" basis by the City Council and
shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for
conducting its business. The fee for appeals shall be consistent with fees
established by the applicable governing authority.
      113.2 Limitations on authority. An application for appeal shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of the California Building Standards Code or
the rules legally adopted hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of the California Building Standards Code do not fully apply or an
equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The board shall have
no authority to waive requirements of the adopted codes. For appeals relating
to accommodations for the disabled, the authority of the board shall include
the ability to authorize reasonable alternatives to disabled access
requirements imposed by the California Building Standards Code.
      113.3 Qualifications. The board of appeals shall consist of five members
who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to
building construction and building service equipment and are not employees of
the jurisdiction. For matters subject to the appeal process referenced in
Section 1.9.1.5 of the California Building Code regarding accommodations for
persons with physical disabilities, the board of appeals shall consist of two
members experienced in construction, two members that are persons with
disabilities as defined in the California Building Code, and one public member.
   O.   Amend Section 114.1 to read as follows:
      114.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish
or occupy any building, structure or equipment regulated by this code, or cause
same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this code. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use for
habitation, storage or any structural purpose, any discarded, salvaged,
abandoned or replaced travel trailer, trucking trailer, cargo container,
streetcar, bus body, rail car or other vehicle body. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use a travel trailer or recreational vehicle
for residential purposes, except in an approved campground or recreational
vehicle park.
   P.   Amend Section 114.4 to read as follows:
      114.4 Violation penalties. Any person who violates a provision of this
code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects,
constructs, alters, or repairs a building or structure in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the building official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code and from which
no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the board of appeals within the time fixed herein,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and is subject to the penalty as provided for
in Chapter 1.20 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code. The imposition of
one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time and, when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   Q.   Amend Section 115.3 to read as follows:
      115.3 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to the penalties and code enforcement procedures set forth in Chapters 1.20,
1.24 and 1.28 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
   R.   Amend Section 116.1 to read as follows:
      116.1 Conditions. Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter
become unsafe, unsanitary or deficient because of inadequate means of egress
facilities, inadequate light and ventilation, or which constitute a fire
hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or public welfare, or that
involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be
deemed an unsafe condition. Unsafe structures shall be taken down and removed
or made safe, as the building official deems necessary and as provided for in
this section and the 2021 edition of the International Property Maintenance
Code, as adopted. A vacant structure that is not secured against entry shall be
deemed unsafe.
   S.   Amend Section 502 to read as follows:
      502.1 Address identification. New and existing buildings shall be
provided with approved address identification. The address identification shall
be legible and placed in apposition that is visible from the street or road
fronting the property. Address identification characters shall contrast with
their background. Numbers shall not be spelled out. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numbers or alphabetical letters. Each character shall be not less than 6
inches (152.4 mm) high for residential buildings and 8 inches (203.2 mm) for
non-residential buildings, with a minimum stroke of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm), unless
otherwise required to be greater in height or of reflective material as
determined by the fire code official during the jurisdiction's development
review process for a specific project. Where required by the fire code
official, address numbers shall be provided in additional approved locations to
facilitate emergency response. Where access is by means of a private road and
the building cannot be viewed from the public way, a monument, pole other sign
or means shall be used to identify the structure. Address identification shall
be maintained.
   T.   Delete Sections 903.2 through 903.2.11.3. Add new Sections 903.2 and
903.2.1 through 903.2.11.3 to read as follows:
      903.2 Where required. An approved automatic fire sprinkler system shall
be installed:
   1.   Throughout new buildings.
      Exceptions:
      1.   A single-story building that contains any occupancy other than Group
R, H or I where floor area does not exceed 1000 square feet (92.9 m2).
      2.   A building containing a Group R, Division 3 occupancy not more than
three stories above grade plane in height shall comply with the automatic fire
sprinkler system requirements of Section R313 of the California Residential
Code.
      3.   A building that contains only a Group A, Division 5 occupancy.
Notwithstanding the foregoing exception, concession stands, retail areas, press
boxes and other accessory use areas in excess of 1,000 square feet (93 m2)
shall be provided with an automatic fire sprinkler system.
   2.   Throughout existing and new sections of an existing building where
floor area is increased by 1000 square feet (92 m2) or where the floor area of
a room or rooms altered exceeds fifty (50) percent of the existing building
floor area. Increase in floor area and area of alterations shall be cumulative
from January 1, 2008, with each issuance of a building permit, regardless of
any change of ownership.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Alterations limited to replacement of exterior coverings, windows,
roofing, electrical services, sewer laterals, retaining walls, and routine
plumbing, electrical and mechanical repairs.
      2.   A building containing a Group R, Division 3 occupancy not more than
three stories above grade plane in height shall comply with the automatic fire
sprinkler system requirements of Section R313 of the California Residential
Code.
   3.   Throughout existing and new sections of an existing building where an
additional story is added.
         Exception: A building that contains a Group R, Division 3 occupancy
that will not be more than three stories above grade plane in height shall
comply with the automatic fire sprinkler system requirements of Section R313 of
the California Residential Code.
   4.   In additions to existing buildings equipped with an automatic fire
sprinkler system.
   5.   Throughout existing and new sections of an existing building where
there is an occupancy classification change resulting in a higher hazard as
determined by Table 903.2(5).
   Table 903.2(5)
   Hazard Categories
 
Relative Hazard    Occupancy Classifications
1 (Highest Hazard) H
2                  I-2, I-3, I-4
3                  A, E, I-1, M, R-1, R-2, R-4
4                  B, F-1, R-3, S-1
5 (Lowest Hazard)  F-2, S-2, U
 
   6.   In buildings, or portions thereof, where cellulose nitrate film or
pyroxylin plastics are manufactured, stored or handled.
   For the purpose of requiring the automatic fire sprinkler systems specified
in this chapter, the floor area within the surrounding exterior walls shall be
considered as one building. For the purpose of calculating square footage for
the application of fire sprinkler requirements and fire flow requirements, the
floor area shall be as defined by Floor Area Gross in Section 202 of this code.
      903.2.1 through 903.2.11.3 not used. Text continues with Section
903.2.11.4.
   U.   Add Section 903.3.5.3 to read:
      903.3.5.3 Minimum water supply. The minimum water supply for an automatic
residential fire sprinkler system designed in accordance with Section R313 of
the California Residential Code or NFPA 13D shall be not less than a 1-inch
nominal pipe size for the service lateral from the water main to the water
meter location and not less than a 1-inch water meter.
   V.   Add Section 903.3.10 to read as follows:
      903.3.10 Exterior locations. Automatic fire sprinklers installed at
exterior locations shall be approved corrosion-resistant devices.
   W.   Amend Section 905.3.1, with all Exceptions to remain unmodified, to
read as follows:
      905.3.1 Building height and area. In other than Group R-3 and R-3.1
occupancies, Class III standpipe systems shall be installed throughout each
floor where any of the following occur:
   1.   Buildings where the floor level of the highest story is located more
than 30 feet (9144 mm) above the lowest level of the fire department vehicle
access.
   2.   Buildings where the floor level of the lowest story is located more
than 30 feet (9144 mm) below the highest level of fire department vehicle
access.
   3.   Buildings that are two or more stories below the highest level of fire
department vehicle access.
   4.   A parking structure.
   A building that is greater than 20,000 square feet (1.858 m2) of floor area
and greater than 18 feet (5.49 m) in height shall have a dry or wet standpipe
system with a 2-½ inch (64 mm) outlet at the roof near the roof access.
Location of the outlet and the fire department connection to the standpipe
shall be labeled and approved by the fire code official.
   X.   Amend Section 907.6.6 to read as follows:
      907.6.6 Monitoring. Fire alarm systems required by this chapter or by the
California Fire Code shall be monitored by an approved central station service
listed by Underwriters Laboratory for receiving fire alarms in accordance with
NFPA 72 and this section. The central station shall contact and notify the
police/fire dispatch center immediately on notification of an alarm and prior
to making contact with the protected premises.
      Exception: Monitoring by a central station is not required for:
      1.   Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms required by Section
907.2.10.
      2.   Group I-3 occupancies shall be monitored in accordance with Section
907.2.6.3.
      3.   Automatic sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings.
   Y.   Amend Section 1030.1 to read as follows:
      1030.1 General. In addition to the means of egress required by this
chapter, emergency escape and rescue openings shall be provided in Group R
occupancies. Basements and sleeping rooms below the fourth story above grade
plane shall not fewer than one exterior emergency escape and rescue opening in
accordance with this section. Where basements contain one or more sleeping
rooms, emergency escape and rescue openings shall be required in each sleeping
room, but hall not be required in adjoining areas of the basement. Such
openings shall open directly into a public way or to a yard or court that opens
to a public way.
   Exceptions:
   1.   In Groups R-1 and R-2 occupancies constructed of Type I, Type IIA, Type
IIIA or Type IV construction equipped throughout with an approved automatic
sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
   2.   Group R-2.1 occupancies meeting the requirements for delayed egress in
accordance with Section 1010.1.9.8 may have operable windows that are breakable
in sleeping rooms permanently restricted to a maximum 4-inch open position.
   3.   Basements with a ceiling height of less than 80 inches (2032 mm) shall
not be required to have emergency escape and rescue openings.
   4.   Emergency escape and rescue openings are not required from basements or
sleeping rooms that have an exit door or exit access door that opens directly
into a public way or to a yard, court or exterior exit balcony that opens to a
public way.
   5.   Basements without habitable spaces and having not more than 200 square
feet (18.6 m2) in floor area shall not be required to have emergency escape and
rescue openings.
   6.   In Group R-2.2 occupancies a certified fire escape is acceptable as a
secondary means of egress for existing buildings for this section of the code.
   Z.   Add Section 1506.4 to read as follows:
      1506.4 Wood shake and shingle roof covering limitations. Wood shake or
shingle roof coverings shall not be installed on any building. A roof covering
shall not be applied over existing wood shakes or shingles.
      Exception: A wood shake or wood shingle system listed as a Class A-rated
roof covering.
   AA.   Amend Section 3201.1 to read as follows:
      3201.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter and Chapter 12.32 of the
Municipal Code shall govern encroachment of structures into the public right-
of-way.
   BB.   Amend Section 3201.3 to read as follows:
      3201.3 Other laws. The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed
to permit violation of other laws or ordinances regulating the use and
occupancy of public property. The projection of any structure or portion
thereof into a right-of-way shall be subject to an encroachment permit issued
by the City of Pismo Beach, State of California, or other agency having
jurisdiction over the public right-of-way.
   CC.   Amend Section 3201.4 to read as follows:
      3201.4 Drainage. Drainage water collected from a roof, awning, canopy or
marquee, and condensate from mechanical equipment shall not flow over a public
walking surface unless specifically approved by the City Engineer.
   DD.   Delete Sections 3202.2.1, 3202.2.2 and 3202.2.3 and amend section
3202.2 to read as follows:
      3202.2 Encroachments above grade and below 8 feet in height.
Encroachments into the public right-of-way above grade and below 8 feet (2438
mm) in height shall be prohibited. Doors, windows and stairs shall not open or
project into the public right-of-way.
   EE.   Amend Section 3202.3.1 to read as follows:
      3202.3.1 Awnings, canopies, marquees, roof overhangs, roof projections,
and signs. Awnings, canopies, marquees, roof overhangs, roof projections, and
signs shall be constructed so as to support applicable loads as specified in
Chapter 16. Roof overhangs or projections shall not be used for human
occupancy. Awnings, canopies, marquees, roof overhangs, roof projections and
signs with less than 15 feet (4572 mm) clearance above the sidewalk shall not
extend into or occupy more than two-thirds the width of the sidewalk measured
from the building to the face of curb. Stanchions or columns that support
awnings, canopies, marquees, and signs shall not be located on the public
right-of-way.
   FF.   Add Exception to Section 3202.3.2 to read as follows:
      3202.3.2 Windows, architectural features and mechanical equipment. Where
the vertical clearance above grade to projecting windows, architectural
features or mechanical equipment is more than 8 feet (2438 mm), 1 inch (25 mm)
of encroachment is permitted for each additional 1 inch of clearance above 8
feet (2438 mm), but the maximum encroachment shall be 4 feet (11219 mm).
      Exception: For windows and architectural features projecting over a
public sidewalk, the minimum vertical clearance may be 8 feet (2438 mm) for the
maximum encroachment length of 4 feet (11219 mm) and the maximum projection
shall be not less than 2 feet (610 mm) from the face of curb.
   GG.   Amend Appendix Section G104.1 to read as follows:
      G104.1 Permit application and processing. Any person, owner, or owner's
authorized agent who intends to conduct any development in a flood hazard area
shall first make application to the building official and shall obtain the
required permit. The processing and administration of a permit application
shall be as prescribed in Sections 105 and 107.
   HH.   Amend Appendix Section H101.2 to read as follows:
      H101.2 Signs exempt from permits. The following signs are exempt from the
requirement to obtain a permit from the building official before erection or
alteration of a sign:
      1.   Signs where a Planning Permit is not required.
      2.   Temporary signs announcing the sale or rent of property.
      3.   Signs erected by transportation authorities.
   II.   Add Appendix Section H106.3 to read as follows:
      H106.3 Sign Operation. Illuminated signs shall remain off pending final
inspection approval.
   JJ.   Add Appendix Sections J101.3 and J101.4 to read as follows:
      J101.3 Hillsides. The term hillside area is defined as all properties
with slopes of 10 percent or more. No grading shall commence on slopes greater
than 30 percent, including but not limited to access roads and driveways unless
approved by the Planning Commission or the City Council. The hillside
development regulations of the city zoning ordinance and General Plan/Local
Coastal Plan Policy C0-10 shall apply in addition to the standards and
procedures set forth in this code for all properties in this category.
      J101.4 Approval for building construction. Prior to commencement of any
building construction, pursuant to a building permit for the graded site, a
benchmark shall be provided to verify that the building site is graded in
conformance with the approved grading plan. No building construction shall be
started until the building official or city engineer has verified that the
rough grading conforms to the approved plan, including any interim or permanent
erosion control measures deemed necessary.
   KK.   Amend Appendix Section J103.2 and add Appendix Sections J103.3 and
J103.4 to read as follows:
      J103.2 Exempted work. A grading permit shall not be required for the
following:
   1.   Grading in an isolated, self-contained area, provided there is no
danger to the public, and that such grading will not adversely affect adjoining
properties.
   2.   Excavation for construction of a structure permitted under this code.
   3.   Cemetery graves.
   4.   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations.
   5.   Excavations for wells, or trenches for utilities.
   6.   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, or stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate, or clay controlled by other regulations, provided such
operations do not affect the lateral support of, or significantly increase
stresses in, soil on adjoining properties.
   7.   Exploratory excavations performed under the direction of a registered
design professional.
   8.   An excavation which does not exceed fifty cubic yards and (1) is less
than 2 feet (610 mm) in depth or (2) does not create a cut slope greater than 5
feet (1524 mm) in height and steeper than 1 unit vertical to 2 units
horizontal.
   9.   A fill less than 1 foot (305 mm) in depth and placed on natural terrain
with a slope flatter than 1 unit vertical to 5 units horizontal, not intended
to support structures, on any one lot and does not obstruct a drainage course.
   10.   A fill less than 3 foot (38.3 mm) in depth and placed on natural
terrain with a slope flatter than 1 unit vertical to 5 units horizontal, not
intended to support structures, that does not exceed 50 cubic yards (38.3 m3)
on any one lot and does not obstruct a drainage course.
   Exemption from the permit requirements of this appendix shall not be deemed
to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of
the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this
jurisdiction.
      J103.3 Early grading. A grading permit shall not be issued prior to
issuance of a building permit for the project unless:
   1.   Approval of a tentative subdivision or tract map, use permit, planning
permit or similar authorization has been granted; and
   2.   Related street and utility grades have been established and approved;
and
   3.   A surety bond in accordance with Section J103.4 is deposited to
guarantee restoration of the site to a natural or other condition acceptable to
the building official should the project not proceed to completion.
      J103.4 Bonds. The building official may require bonds in such form and
amounts as may be deemed necessary to ensure that the work, if not completed in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications, will be corrected to
eliminate hazardous conditions or restore a graded site to the original
condition. In lieu of a surety bond, the applicant may file a cash bond or
instrument of credit with the building official in an amount equal to that
which would be required in the surety bond.
   The city engineer may require that bonds be posted to recover the full costs
of any damage to public right-of-way which may occur because of the peculiar
nature or large scope of the project, such as transportation of fill or heavy
equipment on local streets not designed to accommodate the traffic.
   LL.   Amend Appendix Section J104.2 to read as follows:
      J104.2 Site plan requirements. In addition to the provisions of Section
107, a grading plan shall show the existing grade and finished grade in contour
intervals of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work
and show in detail that it complies with the requirements of this code. The
plans shall show the existing grade on adjoining properties in sufficient
detail to identify how grade changes will conform to the requirements of this
code. The plans shall show existing drainage conditions and drainage devices
and all proposed changes thereto. The plans shall include the location and
dimension of all trees on the site to remain and to be removed which are 3
inches (76.2 mm) in diameter or larger at the trunk, measured at 4.5 feet (1.37
m) above ground level. A preservation plan shall be submitted for all trees to
remain. The plans shall indicate where excess material, rocks, or rubble will
be disposed of.
   MM.   Add Appendix Section J110.3 to read as follows:
      J110.3 Other standards. Erosion control measures shall conform to the
following standards and approval processes:
   1.   The City of Pismo Beach Storm Water Management Plan.
   2.   The most current "Erosion and Sediment Control Field Manual" published
by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Francisco Bay
Region.
   3.   NPDES permit requirements.
   4.   The 2022 California Green Building Standards Code.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
15.08.020 Amendments; California Residential Code.
   The California Residential Code adopted in Section
15.04.010 is modified, amended and/or supplemented as follows:
   A.   Delete Appendices A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, T,
U, and W.
   B.   Amend Section R101.1 to read as follows:
      R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the California
Residential Code and shall be cited as such and shall be referred to herein as
"this code".
   C.   Amend Section R103.1 to read as follows:
      R103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The Building Division is hereby
created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the building
official.
   D.   Add Section R104.3.1 to read as follows:
      R104.3.1 Citations. The building official, or duly authorized agent, is
granted the authority as provided in Section 836.5(a) of the California Penal
Code to issue citations for violations of this chapter.
   E.   Add Section R104.12 to read as follows:
      R104.12 Discovery of archaeological resources. In the event
archaeological resources are unearthed or discovered during any construction
activities, the building official shall be notified so that the extent and
location of discovered materials may be recorded by a qualified archaeologist
and/or Native American, and disposition of artifacts may be accomplished in
accordance with applicable laws and ordinances. If discovered archaeological
resources are found to include human remains, or in any other case when human
remains are discovered during construction, the building official shall notify
the county coroner. If human remains are found to be of an ancient age and of
archaeological and spiritual significance, the building official shall notify
the Native American Heritage Commission.
   F.   Amend Section R105.2 and the Building exemptions only to read as
follows:
      R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of
this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in
any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the
following:
   Building:
   1.   One-story detached accessory structures, provided the floor area does
not exceed 120 square feet (11.15 m2).
   2.   Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high.
   3.   Retaining walls and non-retaining walls, including masonry and concrete
free-standing walls, that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height measured from
the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a
surcharge.
   4.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity does not exceed
5,000 gallons (18 927 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not
exceed 2 to 1.
   5.   Sidewalks and driveways.
   6.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops and
similar finish work.
   7.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 24 inches (610 mm)
deep.
   8.   Swings and playground equipment.
   9.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more
than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require additional
support.
   10.   Decks not attached to a dwelling and not more than 30 inches (762 mm)
above grade at any point.
   G.   Amend Section R105.3.2 to read as follows:
      R105.3.2 Time limitation of application. An application for a permit for
any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 365 days after the
date of filing, unless a permit has been issued; except that the building
official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional
periods not exceeding 90 days each. No extension of time granted by the
building official shall extend the application beyond the effective date of the
next edition of the triennial California Building Standards Code. In order to
renew action on an application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit
plans and pay a new plan review fee.
   H.   Add Section R108.2.1 to read as follows:
      R108.2.1 Plan review fees. When submittal documents are required by
Section R106.1, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting the
submittal documents for plan review. Said plan review fee shall be in
accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing body.
   Separate plan review fees shall apply to permits for retaining walls and
major drainage structures in conjunction with grading. For excavation and fill
on the same site, the plan review fee for grading shall be based on the volume
of excavation or fill, whichever is greater.
   The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees from the
permit fees specified in Section R108.2 and are in addition to the permit fees.
   Where submittal documents are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional plan review, an additional plan review fee may be charged at a rate
established by the applicable governing authority.
   I.   Amend Section R108.6 to read as follows:
      R108.6 Work commencing before permit issuance.
      R108.6.1 Investigation. Whenever any work for which a permit is required
by this code has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
      R108.6.2 Fee. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall
be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by
this code. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person
from compliance with all other provisions of this code nor from any penalty
prescribed by law.
   J.   Add Section R111.4 to read as follows:
      R111.4 Underground utility services. All new electric, telephone,
television, and other communication service connections, for all new, altered,
or enlarged buildings shall be provided by underground wiring. Extension of
electric or communication distribution lines to serve such projects shall be
underground wiring.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Replacement or relocation of electric service equipment served by
existing overhead wiring.
      2.   Where determined by the building official to be impractical or
infeasible within the standards and practices of the utility or other companies
providing such services.
   Where the utility or other company's distribution system is underground, the
service lines shall terminate at a connection point designated by the utility
company. Where the utility or other company's distribution is overhead, the
service lines shall terminate as a pole riser on a pole designated by the
utility company.
   K.   Amend Section R112.1 to read as follows and delete Sections R112.2
through R112.4:
      R112.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions
or determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, the provisions of Section 113 of the California
Building Code, as amended, shall apply.
   L.   Amend Section R113.1 to read as follows:
      R113.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish
or occupy any building, structure or equipment regulated by this code, or cause
same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this code. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use for
habitation, storage or any structural purpose, any discarded, salvaged,
abandoned or replaced travel trailer, trucking trailer, cargo container,
streetcar, bus body, rail car or other vehicle body. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use a travel trailer or recreational vehicle
for residential purposes, except in an approved campground or recreational
vehicle park.
   M.   Amend Section R113.4 to read as follows:
      R113.4 Violation penalties. Any person who violates a provision of this
code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects,
constructs, alters, or repairs a building or structure in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the building official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code and from which
no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the board of appeals within the time fixed herein,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and is subject to the penalty as provided for
in Chapter 1.20 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code. The imposition of
one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time and, when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   N.   Amend Section R114.2 to read as follows:
      R114.2 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to the penalties and code enforcement procedures set forth in Chapters 1.20,
1.24 and 1.28 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
   O.   Amend Section R310.1 by deletion of Exception 2.
      R310.1 Emergency escape and rescue opening required. Basements, habitable
attics and every sleeping room shall have not less than one operable emergency
escape and rescue opening. Where basements contain one or more sleeping rooms,
an emergency escape and rescue opening shall be required in each sleeping room.
Emergency escape and rescue openings shall open directly into a public way, or
to a yard or court that opens to a public way.
      Exception: Storm shelters and basements used only to house mechanical
equipment not exceeding a total floor area of 200 square feet (18.58 m2).
   P.   Add Section R312.1.5 to read as follows:
      R312.1.5 Glazing. Where glass is used to provide a guard or as a portion
of the guard system, the guard shall also comply with Section 2407 of the
California Building Code. Where the glazing provided does not meet the strength
and attachment requirements of Section 1607.8 of the California Building Code,
complying guards shall also be located along glazed sides of open-sided walking
surfaces.
   Q.   Amend Section R313.2 to read as follows:
      R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire systems. An automatic
residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in one- and two-family
dwellings.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Existing dwellings, not already provided with an automatic
residential fire sprinkler system, where additions or alterations do not
increase the existing floor area by more than 1,000 square feet (92.9 m2) or
create an additional dwelling unit.
      2.   Accessory Dwelling Unit, provided that all of the following are met:
         2.1   The unit meets the definition of an Accessory Dwelling unit as
defined in the Government Code Section 65852.2.
         2.2   The existing primary residence does not have automatic fire
sprinklers.
         2.3   The accessory detached building does not exceed 1,200 square
feet (111.5 m2) in size.
         2.4   The unit is on the same lot as the primary residence.
   R.   Amend Section R313.3.1.2 to read as follows:
      R313.3.1.2 Required sprinkler locations. Sprinklers shall be installed to
protect all areas of a dwelling unit.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Attics, crawl spaces and normally unoccupied concealed spaces that
do not contain fuel-fired appliances do not require fire sprinklers. In attics,
crawl spaces and normally unoccupied concealed spaces that contain fuel-fired
equipment, a sprinkler shall be installed above the equipment; however,
sprinklers shall not be required in the remainder of the space.
      2.   Clothes closets, linen closets and pantries not exceeding 24 square
feet (2.2 m2) in area, with the smallest dimension not greater than 3 feet (915
mm) and having wall and ceiling surfaces of gypsum board.
      3.   Bathrooms not more than 55 square feet (5.1 m2) in area.
      4.   Detached garages where the floor area does not exceed 1000 square
feet (92.9 m2); carports with no habitable space above; open attached porches;
unheated entry areas, such as mud rooms, that are adjacent to an exterior door;
and similar areas.
   S.   Add Section R313.3.5.4 to read:
      R313.3.5.4 Minimum water supply. The minimum water supply for an
automatic residential fire sprinkler system designed in accordance with Section
R313 or NFPA 13D shall be not less than a 1-inch nominal pipe size for the
service lateral from the water main to the water meter location and not less
than a 1-inch water meter.
   T.   Amend Section R319.1 to read as follows:
      R319.1 Address identification. New and existing buildings shall be
provided with approved address identification. The address identification shall
be legible and placed in apposition that is visible from the street or road
fronting the property. Address identification characters shall contrast with
their background. Numbers shall not be spelled out. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numbers or alphabetical letters. Each character shall be not less than 6
inches (152.4 mm) high with a minimum stroke of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm), unless
otherwise required to be greater in height or of reflective material as
determined by the fire code official during the jurisdiction's development
review process for a specific project. Where required by the fire code
official, address numbers shall be provided in additional approved locations to
facilitate emergency response. Where access is by means of a private road and
the building cannot be viewed from the public way, a monument, pole other sign
or means shall be used to identify the structure. Address identification shall
be maintained.
   U.   Add Section R326.1 to read as follows:
      R326.1 General. The design and construction of pools and spas shall
comply with the California Building Code and Appendix V of this code.
   V.   Add Section R904.5 to read as follows:
      R904.5 Wood shake and shingle roof covering limitations. Wood shake or
shingle roof coverings shall not be installed on any building. A roof covering
shall not be applied over existing wood shakes or shingles.
      Exception: A wood shake or wood shingle system listed as a Class A-rated
roof covering complying with Section R902.2 of this code.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
15.08.030 Amendments; California Existing Building Code.
   The California Existing Building Code adopted in Section
15.04.010 is modified, amended and/or supplemented as follows:
   A.   Delete Appendix Chapter A4.
   B.   Amend Section 101.1 to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the California Existing
Building Code, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   C.   Amend 103.1 to read as follows:
      103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The Building Division is hereby
created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the building
official. For the purposes of this code, building official shall mean code
official.
   D.   Add Section 104.3.1 to read as follows:
      104.3.1 Citations. The code official, or duly authorized agent, is
granted the authority as provided in Section 836.5(a) of the California Penal
Code to issue citations for violations of this chapter.
   E.   Add Section 104.12 to read as follows:
      104.12 Discovery of archaeological resources. In the event archaeological
resources are unearthed or discovered during any construction activities, the
building official shall be notified so that the extent and location of
discovered materials may be recorded by a qualified archaeologist and/or Native
American, and disposition of artifacts may be accomplished in accordance with
applicable laws and ordinances. If discovered archaeological resources are
found to include human remains, or in any other case when human remains are
discovered during construction, the building official shall notify the county
coroner. If human remains are found to be of an ancient age and of
archaeological and spiritual significance, the building official shall notify
the Native American Heritage Commission.
   F.   Amend Section 105.3.2 to read as follows:
      105.3.2 Time limitation of application. An application for a permit for
any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 365 days after the
date of filing, unless a permit has been issued; except that the building
official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional
periods not exceeding 90 days each. No extension of time granted by the
building official shall extend the application beyond the effective date of the
next edition of the triennial California Building Standards Code. In order to
renew action on an application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit
plans and pay a new plan review fee.
   G.   Add Section 108.2.1 to read as follows:
      108.2.1 Plan review fees. When submittal documents are required by
Section 106.1, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting the
submittal documents for plan review. Said plan review fee shall be in
accordance with the schedule as established by the applicable governing body.
   Separate plan review fees shall apply to permits for retaining walls and
major drainage structures in conjunction with grading. For excavation and fill
on the same site, the plan review fee for grading shall be based on the volume
of excavation or fill, whichever is greater.
   The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees from the
permit fees specified in Section 108.2 and are in addition to the permit fees.
   Where submittal documents are incomplete or changed so as to require
additional plan review, or where the project involves deferred submittal items
as defined in Section 106.3.4, an additional plan review fee may be charged at
a rate established by the applicable governing authority.
   H.   Amend Section 108.4 to read as follows:
      108.4 Work commencing before permit issuance.
      108.4.1 Investigation. Whenever any work for which a permit is required
by this code has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
      108.4.2 Fee. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall
be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by
this code. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person
from compliance with all other provisions of this code nor from any penalty
prescribed by law.
   I.   Delete the exception to Section 109.3.5.
   J.   Add Section 111.4 to read as follows:
      111.4 Underground utility services. All new electric, telephone,
television, and other communication service connections, for all new, altered,
or enlarged buildings shall be provided by underground wiring. Extension of
electric or communication distribution lines to serve such projects shall be
underground wiring.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Replacement or relocation of electric service equipment served by
existing overhead wiring.
      2.   Where determined by the building official to be impractical or
infeasible within the standards and practices of the utility or other companies
providing such services.
   Where the utility or other company's distribution system is underground, the
service lines shall terminate at a connection point designated by the utility
company. Where the utility or other company's distribution is overhead, the
service lines shall terminate as a pole riser on a pole designated by the
utility company.
   K.   Amend Section 112.1 to read as follows and delete Sections 112.2 and
112.3:
      112.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions
or determinations made by the code official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, the provisions of Section 113 of the California
Building Code, as amended, shall apply.
   L.   Amend Section 113.1 to read as follows:
      113.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish
or occupy any building, structure or equipment regulated by this code, or cause
same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this code. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use for
habitation, storage or any structural purpose, any discarded, salvaged,
abandoned or replaced travel trailer, trucking trailer, cargo container,
streetcar, bus body, rail car or other vehicle body. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use a travel trailer or recreational vehicle
for residential purposes, except in an approved campground or recreational
vehicle park.
   M.   Amend Section 113.4 to read as follows:
      113.4 Violation penalties. Any person who violates a provision of this
code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects,
constructs, alters, or repairs a building or structure in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the building official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code and from which
no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the board of appeals within the time fixed herein,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and is subject to the penalty as provided for
in Chapter 1.20 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code. The imposition of
one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time and, when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   N.   Amend Section 114.3 to read as follows:
      114.3 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to the penalties and code enforcement procedures set forth in Chapters 1.20,
1.24 and 1.28 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
   O.   Amend Section 115.1 to read as follows:
      115.1 Conditions. Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter
become unsafe, unsanitary or deficient because of inadequate means of egress
facilities, inadequate light and ventilation, or which constitute a fire
hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or public welfare, or that
involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be
deemed an unsafe condition. Unsafe structures shall be taken down and removed
or made safe, as the building official deems necessary and as provided for in
this section and the 2021 edition of the International Property Maintenance
Code, as adopted. A vacant structure that is not secured against entry shall be
deemed unsafe.
   P.   Amend Section A102.1 to read as follows:
      A102.1 General. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
existing buildings having at least one unreinforced masonry bearing wall. The
elements regulated by this chapter shall be determined in accordance with Table
A102.1. Except as provided herein, other structural provisions of the building
code shall apply. This chapter does not apply to the alteration of existing
electrical, plumbing, mechanical or fire safety systems.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Warehouses or similar structures not used for human habitation
unless housing emergency equipment or supplies.
      2.   A building having five living units or less.
      3.   A building previously strengthened to standards in effect at the
time of strengthening.
   Q.   Add new Appendix Section A115 entitled "Administrative Provisions" to
read as follows:
   SECTION A115 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
      A115.1 Compliance requirements previously established (Ordinance 2010-
008). The city's building stock and records were surveyed to identify buildings
within the scope of this chapter, and said building owners were notified of the
determination by notice and order sent by certified mail on dated January 11,
1990. The owner of a building within the scope of this chapter shall cause a
structural analysis of the building to be made either by California-licensed
engineer or architect. The engineer or architect may provide sufficient
evidence to establish that the building is not within the scope of this
chapter. The structural analysis shall be subject to the approval of the
building official and shall be submitted in accordance with the following time
limits:
   1.   By no later than February 1, 2011, a structural analysis and other
substantial evidence which demonstrates that the building is not within the
scope of this chapter shall be submitted.
   2.   By no later than February 1, 2011, a structural analysis and plans for
alterations required to conform to this chapter shall be submitted.
   3.   By August 1, 2011, permits for the seismic retrofitting work necessary
to achieve conformance with this chapter shall be obtained.
   Where compliance with this chapter would displace low- and moderate-income
residential uses, the building official may extend special and reasonable
consideration to the time limits in this section so as to minimize the
displacement of persons.
   In order for an owner of a building within the scope of this chapter to
comply with this chapter, the following elements shall be made to comply:
   1.   Unreinforced masonry walls to resist normal and in-plane seismic
forces.
   2.   The anchorage and stability of exterior parapets and ornamentation.
   3.   The anchorage of unreinforced masonry walls to floors and roof.
   4.   Floor and roof diaphragms.
   5.   A complete bracing system to resist earthquake forces.
      A115.1.1 Subsequent determinations. Where a building, not otherwise
identified in the original inventory of buildings subject to Ordinance 2010-08,
is determined to be within the scope of this chapter, the owner shall
structurally alter the building to comply with this chapter within 180 days of
receipt of a notice and order, or as otherwise determined by the building
official.
      A115.2 Notice and order.
      A115.2.1 General. The building official shall, within 30 days of the
determination that a building is of unreinforced masonry construction issue a
notice and order as provided in this section to the owner of a building within
the scope of this chapter.
      A115.2.2 Service of notice and order. A notice or order issued pursuant
to this section shall be in writing and shall be served either personally or by
certified or registered mail upon the owner as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll, and upon the person, if any, in apparent charge or control of
the building. The failure of any such person to receive such notice or order
shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this chapter or
relieve any such person from any duty or obligation imposed on him by the
provisions of this chapter.
      A115.2.3 Content of notice and order. The notice shall specify that the
building has been determined by the building official to be within the scope of
this chapter and, therefore, is subject to the minimum seismic standards of
this chapter. The order shall direct the owner to obtain a building or
demolition permit as required by this chapter and cause the building to be
structurally altered to conform to the provisions of this chapter, or cause the
building to be demolished. The notice or order shall be accompanied by a copy
of Section A115.1 of this code, which sets forth the owner's responsibilities.
      A115.3 Appeal. The owner of the building may appeal the building
official's initial determination that the building is within the scope of this
chapter to the Board of Appeals established by Section 113 of the California
Building Code, as adopted. Such appeal shall be filed with the Board within 60
days from the service date of the order described in Section A115.2. Any appeal
shall be decided by the Board no later than 90 days after filing and the
grounds thereof shall be stated clearly and concisely. Appeals or requests for
modifications from any other determinations, orders or actions by the building
official pursuant to this chapter shall be made in accordance with the
procedures established in Section 104.10 of the California Building Code.
      A115.4 Recordation. At the time that the building official serves the
aforementioned notice, the building official shall also file and record with
the office of the county recorder a certificate stating that the subject
building is within the scope of this chapter and is a potentially earthquake
hazardous building. The certificate shall also state that the owner thereof
will be ordered to structurally analyze the building to determine compliance
with this chapter.
   If the building is either demolished, found not to be within the scope of
this chapter, or is structurally capable of resisting minimum seismic forces
required by this chapter as a result of structural alterations or an analysis,
the building official shall file and record with the office of the county
recorder a form terminating the status of the subject building as being
classified within the scope of this chapter.
      A115.5 Enforcement. If the owner in charge or control of the subject
building fails to comply with any order issued by the building official
pursuant to this chapter within the time limit set forth in Section A115.1, the
building official shall verify that the record owner of this building has been
properly served. If the order has been served on the record owner, then the
following provisions apply:
      1.   The building official may order that the entire building be vacated
and that the building remain vacated until such order has been complied with.
If compliance with such order has not been accomplished within 90 days after
the date the building has been ordered vacated or such additional time as may
have been granted by the Board of Appeals, the building official may order its
demolition in accordance with the provisions of Sections 107, 108, 109 and 110
of the International Property Maintenance Code.
      2.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and is subject to the penalty as provided for in Chapter 1.20 of
the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
15.08.040 Amendments; California Mechanical Code.
   The California Mechanical Code adopted in Section
15.04.010 is modified, amended and/or supplemented as follows:
   A.   Delete Division II of Chapter 1, Table 104.5, and Appendices A, B, C,
D, E, F, and G.
   B.   Administration of the mechanical code shall be as set forth in Division
II of Chapter 1 of the California Building Code.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
15.08.050 Amendments; California Plumbing Code.
   The California Plumbing Code adopted in Section
15.04.010 is modified, amended and/or supplemented as follows:
   A.   Delete Division II of Chapter 1, Table 104.5, and Appendices C, E, F,
G, K and L.
   B.   Administration of the plumbing code shall be as set forth in Division
II of Chapter 1 of the California Building Code.
   C.   Amend Section 1501.3 by deletion of Exception.
   D.   Amend Section 1503.1.1 to read as follows:
      1503.1.1 Clothes washer system. A clothes washer system in compliance
with all of the following is not exempt from the construction permit specified
in Section 1.8.4.1 and shall not be installed or altered without a construction
permit and shall comply with this chapter and the following:
   (1)   The installation, change, alteration or repair of the system does not
include a potable water connection or a pump and does not affect other
building, plumbing, electrical, or mechanical components including structural
features, egress, fire-life safety, sanitation, potable water supply piping, or
accessibility.
      Note: The pump in a clothes washer shall not be considered part of the
gray water system.
   (2)   The gray water shall be contained on the site where it is generated.
   (3)   Gray water shall be directed to and contained within an irrigation or
disposal field.
   (4)   Ponding or runoff is prohibited and shall be considered a nuisance.
   (5)   Gray water systems shall be designed to minimize contact with humans
and domestic pets.
   E.   Amend Section 1503.7 to read as follows:
      1503.7 Drawings and specifications. The Authority Having Jurisdiction may
require the following information to be included with or in a plot plan before
a permit is issued for a gray water system, or at a time during construction
thereof:
   (1)   Plot plan drawn to scale and completely dimensioned, showing lot lines
and structures, direction and approximate slope of surface, location of present
or proposed retaining walls, drainage channels, water supply lines, wells,
paved areas and structures, number of bedrooms and plumbing fixtures in each
structure, location of private sewage disposal system or building sewer
connecting to the public sewer, and location of the proposed gray water system.
   (2)   Details of construction necessary to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, together with a full description of the complete
installation, including installation methods, construction, and materials.
   (3)   Details for holding tanks shall include dimensions, structural
calculations, bracings, and such other pertinent data as required.
   (4)   A log of soil formations and groundwater level as determined by test
holes dug in proximity to proposed irrigation and/or disposal area, together
with an analysis of water absorption characteristics of the soil and
underground movement of water at the proposed site as determined by a
professional geotechnical engineer duly licensed as such by the State of
California.
   (5)   Distance between the plot and surface waters such as lakes, ponds,
rivers, or streams, and the slope between the plot and the surface water, where
in close proximity.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
15.08.060 Amendments; California Electrical Code.
   The California Electrical Code adopted in Section
15.04.010 is modified, amended and/or supplemented as follows:
   A.   Annexes are informative only and not adopted.
   B.   Administration of the electrical code shall be as set forth in Division
II of Chapter 1 of the California Building Code.
   C.   Amend Article 230.70(A)(1) to read as follows:
      (1) Readily accessible location. The service disconnecting means shall be
installed at a readily accessible location either outside the building or other
structure, or inside nearest the point of entrance of the service conductors.
The disconnecting means shall be accessible to emergency personnel, either
directly or by a remote actuating device, without requiring transit of the
building interior. Dedicated electrical equipment rooms located at the building
perimeter and providing direct access to the outside shall satisfy
accessibility for emergency personnel.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
15.08.070 Amendments; International Property Maintenance Code.
   The International Property Maintenance Code adopted in Section
15.04.010 is modified, amended and/or supplemented as follows:
   A.   Amend Section 101.1 to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code of the City of Pismo Beach, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   B.   Amend Section 102.3 to read as follows:
      102.3 Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the California Building Standards Code and other
applicable laws and ordinances.
   C.   Amend Section 103.1 to read as follows:
      103.1 General. The office of property maintenance inspection is hereby
created and the executive official in charge thereof shall be known as the code
official.
   D.   Amend Section 103.5 to read as follows:
      103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the code
official under this code shall be in accordance with the schedule as
established by the applicable governing authority.
   E.   Add Section 104.5.1 to read as follows:
      104.5.1 Citations. The code official, or duly authorized agent, is
granted the authority as provided in Section 836.5(a) of the California Penal
Code to issue citations for violations of this chapter.
   F.   Amend Section 106.4 to read as follows:
      106.4 Violation penalties. Any person who violates a provision of this
code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who fails to
comply with an order as affirmed or modified by the board of appeals within the
time fixed herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and is subject to the
penalty as provided for in
Chapter 1.20 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time and, when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   G.   Amend Section 111.2 to read as follows, and delete Sections 111.2.1
through 111.2.5.
      111.2 Membership of board. The board of appeals shall be the board of
appeals established in Section 113 of the California Building Code as amended
in Section 15.08.010 of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
   H.   Amend Section 112.4 to read as follows:
      112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to the penalties and code enforcement procedures set forth in Chapters 1.20,
1.24 and 1.28 of the City of Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
(Ord. O-2022-008 § 3 (part), 2022)
Chapter 15.10 DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
15.10.010 Short title.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Pismo Beach Development Impact Fee
Ordinance." (Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.020 Purpose.
   The council declares that the fees required to be paid hereby are
established for the purpose of protecting the public health, safety and general
welfare, and implementing the policies of the general plan, by providing for
the provision of adequate public facilities to support orderly development.
(Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.030 Definitions.
   Unless otherwise required by the context, the following definitions shall
govern the construction of this chapter:
   "Accessory dwelling unit" see Section 17.006 (
17.62.020). For purposes of establishing an impact fee, an accessory dwelling
unit shall be considered one-half of a dwelling unit, as defined herein.
   "Commercial development" means the development or use of land for any
retail, office, service commercial or other business purpose.
   "Council" means the city council of the city of Pismo Beach.
   "Development" or "development project" means any project undertaken for the
purpose of development, and includes a project involving the issuance of a
permit for construction or reconstruction, but not a permit to operate.
   "Dwelling unit" means a structure, or portion of a structure, which is used
for separate residential occupancy by an individual, a family or a group of
unrelated individuals.
   "Hotel" or "motel" means any development or use of land for temporary
lodging purposes.
   "Impact fee" means a monetary exaction charged to the applicant in
connection with approval of a development project for the purpose of defraying
all or a part of the cost of public facilities related to the development
project. This definition does not include fees specified in Section 66477,
Government Code, or fees for processing applications for permits or approvals.
   "Imposition of fees" occurs when they are imposed or levied on a specific
development.
   "Mobilehome" means any mobile or manufactured dwelling subject to the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42
U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq.).
   "Multifamily residential development" means development or use of land for
residential purposes involving more than one dwelling unit in a single
structure.
   "Public facilities" means public improvements, public services or community
amenities.
   "Single-family residential" means development or use of land for residential
purposes involving no more than one dwelling unit in a single structure.
(Ord. O-2018-011 § 2, 2018: Ord. 07-05 § 1 (Exh. A (part)), 2007: Ord. 06-06
(part), 2006: Ord. 03-03 (part), 2003; Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.040 Projects subject to prior fee ordinances and resolutions.
   All projects with vesting tentative maps at the time of the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter will be subject to prior fee
ordinances and resolutions, unless such fees, in total, are higher than those
imposed by this chapter's implementing resolution; or, unless otherwise
determined due to maximum time limits having expired on said vesting tentative
maps. (Ord. 94-06, 1994: Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.050 Fees—Imposition and application.
   A.   This chapter establishes development impact fees which are imposed as a
condition of approval upon all development projects for which a building permit
is issued on or after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter. Those impact fees are established for the following public facilities:
   1.   General government and police protection facilities;
   2.   Fire protection facilities;
   3.   Park and recreation improvements;
   4.   Water supply, treatment, transmission and distribution facilities;
   5.   Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal facilities;
   6.   Traffic and circulation facilities.
   B.   These impact fees are established in order to pay for the capital costs
of public facilities reasonably related to the needs of new development in the
city. At least once every five years, the council shall review the basis for
the impact fees to determine whether the fees are still reasonably related to
the needs of new development.
   C.   In establishing these fees, the council has considered the effects of
the fees with respect to the city's housing needs as established in the housing
element of the general plan. (Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.060 Fees to be set by resolution.
   From time to time, the council shall, by resolution, set forth the specific
amount of the impact fees, the specific public facilities to be paid for by the
fees and the estimated cost of those facilities, and describe the reasonable
relationship between the fees and the developments on which they will be
imposed. (Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.070 Payment of fees.
   Except as otherwise provided in Section 66007 of the Government Code, impact
fees shall be paid to the city at the time a building permit is issued. In
cases where payment of all or part of the required fee is deferred at the time
of building permit issuance, the director of community development may require
that the applicant, at the applicant's expense, execute a contract with the
city to pay all deferred impact fees prior to final inspection and/or issuance
of a certificate of occupancy for the project. The contract shall specify the
amount of the unpaid fee and a legal description of the property affected. It
shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder, and shall constitute a
lien for the payment of the fees, which shall be enforceable against the
successors in interest of the property owner. When impact fees are paid in
full, the city, at the expense of the applicant or property owner, shall
execute a release of any lien securing those impact fees. (Ord. 93-01 § 1
(part), 1993)
15.10.080 Protests.
   A.   Any party subject to the fees established by this chapter may protest
the imposition of those fees by meeting all of the following requirements:
   1.   Tendering any required payment in full or providing satisfactory
avoidance of arrangements to ensure performance of the conditions necessary to
meet the requirements of the imposition of the fee;
   2.   Serving written notice of protest on the city council which notice
shall contain all of the following information:
   a.   A statement that the required payment is tendered under protest,
   b.   A statement informing the city council of the factual elements of the
dispute and the legal theory forming the basis for the protest;
   3.   Serving the written notice of protest no later than ninety days after
the date of the imposition of the fees.
   B.   The city council shall consider that protest at a hearing to be held
within sixty days after the filing of the appeal. The decision of the city
council shall be final. (Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.090 Exemptions.
   The fees imposed under this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   The United States or to any agency or instrumentality thereof, the
state or any county or other political subdivision of the state;
   B.   Remodeling or alteration of an existing residential building, but only
if the number of dwelling units is not increased or the use changed, except as
specified in subsection D, below;
   C.   That portion of a structure, which existed before the addition of
dwelling units or the enlargement of floor area in a nonresidential structure.
If a structure is destroyed or demolished, and replaced within two years from
the date of demolition, the impact fees shall be based on the service
requirements of the new development less the service requirements of the
development, which it replaced.
   D.   Development, modification, or expansion of an accessory dwelling unit,
as defined in the Zoning Code. (Ord. O-2018-011 § 3, 2018: Ord. 07-05 § 1 (Exh.
A (part)), 2007: Ord. 06-06 (part), 2006: Ord. 03-03 (part), 2003: Ord. 93-01 §
1 (part), 1993)
15.10.100 Credits and reimbursement.
   If the applicant for approval of any development project is required by the
city, as a condition of approval, to construct facilities whose cost has been
used in the calculation of impact fees which apply to that project, the
applicant shall receive a credit against those impact fees, up to the amount
charged for the same type of facility. If the cost of the improvements
constructed by the applicant exceeds the amount of the impact fees charged to
the development project for the same type of facility, the excess cost shall be
reimbursed to the applicant from other impact fee revenues within a reasonable
time. To qualify for reimbursement, the applicant must enter into a
reimbursement agreement with the city, and any such agreement must specify the
amount to be reimbursed and the approximate schedule of the reimbursement.
(Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.110 Disposition and use of the fees.
   A.   The director of finance shall establish a separate fund or account for
each type of facility listed in Section
15.10.050. All impact fees collected by the city shall be deposited in the fund
or account established for the specific type of facility for which the fee is
collected. Any interest earned on funds deposited in a fund or account shall be
deposited in that fund or account.
   B.   Funds deposited in those accounts shall be used only to pay for design
and construction, including construction administration, of projects identified
in resolutions adopted pursuant to Section
15.10.060 as the basis for the impact fees, or for reimbursements as provided
in Section
15.10.100. (Ord. 93-01 § 1 (part), 1993)
15.10.120 Refunds.
   A.   If impact fees collected by the city have not been expended for the
intended purpose within five years following their collection, the city shall
either refund those fees as provided in Section 66001 of the Government Code,
or make findings as required by that section to retain the fees.
   B.   The refund provisions of this chapter shall apply only to monies in
possession of the city and need not be made with respect to any bonds, letters
of credit or other items given to secure payment at a future date. (Ord. 93-01
§ 1 (part), 1993)
Chapter 15.12 SPECIAL PERMIT PROCESSING
15.12.010 Residential small rooftop solar systems.
   A.   Definitions. As used in Section
15.12.010, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   1.   Electronic submittal. The utilization of one or more of the following:
   a.   Email;
   b.   Internet;
   c.   Facsimile.
   2.   Small residential rooftop solar energy system. A solar energy system
which meets all of the following:
   a.   A solar energy system that is no larger than 10 kilowatts alternating
current nameplate rating or 30 kilowatts thermal.
   b.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable fire, structural,
electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the City and all
applicable safety and performance standards established by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers and accredited testing laboratories.
   c.   A solar energy system that is installed on a one- or two-family
dwelling.
   d.   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum legal
building height as defined by the City.
   3.   Solar energy system. Any solar collector, other solar energy device or
any structural design feature of a building the primary purpose of which is to
provide for the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for
electric generation, space heating, space cooling, or water heating.
   4.   Specific adverse impact. A significant, quantifiable, direct, and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and written public health
or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.
   B.   Checklists and Standard Plans.
   1.   The building official shall establish an administrative,
nondiscretionary expedited permit application review process for small
residential rooftop solar energy systems, including standard plans and
checklists. The checklists shall set forth all requirements with which the
small residential rooftop solar energy system must comply in order to be
eligible for expedited review.
   2.   The small residential rooftop solar system permit process, standard
plans, and checklists shall substantially conform to the recommendations for
expedited permitting, including the checklists and standard plans, contained in
the most current version of the California Solar Permitting Guidebook adopted
by the Governor's Office of Planning and Research. The building official may
modify the checklists and standard plans found in the California Solar
Permitting Guidebook due to unique climactic, geological, seismological, or
topographical conditions.
   3.   The checklists and standard plans for small residential rooftop solar
energy systems, as well as all other required permitting documentation, shall
be available on the City of Pismo Beach website. Unique climactic, geological,
seismological or topographical conditions requiring modifications of the
checklists and standard plans found in the California Solar Permitting
Guidebook shall be included on the website.
   C.    Permit Application Review.
   1.   An applicant may submit the permit application and related
documentation for a small residential rooftop solar energy system by electronic
submittal, including all required permit processing and inspection fees, as
specified on the City of Pismo Beach website. Electronic signatures shall be
accepted on all electronic submittals in lieu of a wet signature.
   2.   A permit application for a small residential rooftop solar energy
system shall be deemed complete when the building official determines that the
application satisfies all the information requirements in the checklists and
standard plans.
   3.   If a permit application for a small rooftop solar energy system is
deemed incomplete, a written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in
the application and any additional information or documentation required to be
eligible for expedited permit issuance shall be sent to the applicant for
resubmission.
   4.   A permit application for a small residential rooftop solar energy
system shall be administratively reviewed and approved by the building official
as a nondiscretionary permit within a reasonable time following receipt of a
complete application that satisfies the requirements of the approved checklists
and standard plans, and includes payment of all required permit processing and
inspection fees.
   5.   The building official may require the applicant to apply for use permit
pursuant to other City Municipal Code provisions if the building official,
based on substantial evidence, determines that the proposed small residential
rooftop solar energy system could have a specific, adverse impact upon the
public health and safety.
   6.   Approval of a permit application for a small residential rooftop solar
energy system shall not be based or conditioned on the approval of an
association, as defined in section 4080 of the Civil Code.
   7.   Approval does not authorize an applicant to connect the small
residential rooftop energy system to the local utility's electricity grid. The
applicant is responsible for obtaining such approval or permission from the
local utility.
   D.   Inspection.
   1.   Only one inspection shall be required and performed by the building
official for small residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible for
expedited review. A separate fire inspection may be performed if an agreement
with the local fire code official does not exist to perform safety inspections
on behalf of the fire code official.
   2.   The inspection shall be done in a timely manner.
   3.   If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails inspection, a
subsequent inspection is authorized but need not conform to the requirements of
this section.
(Ord. O-2016-008 § 3 (part), 2016)
15.12.020 Electric vehicle charging stations.
   A.    Definitions. As used in Section
15.12.020, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   1.   Electric vehicle charging station or charging station. Any level of
electric vehicle supply equipment station that is designed and built in
compliance with Article 625 of the California Electrical Code and delivers
electricity from a source outside an electric vehicle into a plug-in electric
vehicle.
   2.   Electronic submittal. The utilization of one or more of the following:
   a.   Email;
   b.   Internet;
   c.   Facsimile.
   3.   Specific, adverse impact. A significant, quantifiable, direct, and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and written public health
or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.
   B.   Electric Vehicle Charging Station Requirements.
   1.   All electric vehicle charging stations shall meet applicable health and
safety standards and requirements imposed by the state and the city.
   2.   Electric vehicle charging stations shall meet all applicable safety and
performance standards established by the California Electrical Code, the
Society of Automotive Engineers, the National Electrical Manufacturers
Association, accredited testing laboratories, and, where applicable, the Public
Utilities Commission regarding safety and reliability.
   C.   Checklists and Standard Plans.
   1.   The building official shall establish an administrative,
nondiscretionary expedited permit application review process for electric
vehicle charging stations, including standard plans and checklists. The
checklists shall set forth all requirements with which the electric vehicle
charging station must comply in order to be eligible for expedited review.
   2.   The electric vehicle charging station permit process, standard plans,
and checklists shall substantially conform to the recommendations for expedited
permitting, including the checklists and standard plans, contained in the most
current version of "Plug-In Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Permitting
Checklist" of the "Zero-Emission Vehicles in California: Community Readiness
Guidebook" published by the Governor's Office of Planning and Research. The
building official may modify the checklists and standard plans found in the
Guidebook due to unique climactic, geological, seismological, or topographical
conditions.
   3.   The checklists and standard plans for electric vehicle charging
stations, as well as all other required permitting documentation, shall be
available on the City of Pismo Beach website. Unique climactic, geological,
seismological or topographical conditions requiring modifications of the
checklists and standard plans found in the "Plug-In Electric Vehicle
Infrastructure Permitting Checklist" of the "Zero-Emission Vehicles in
California: Community Readiness Guidebook" shall be included on the website.
   D.   Permit Application Review.
   1.   An applicant may submit the permit application and related
documentation for an electric vehicle charging station by electronic submittal,
including all required permit processing and inspection fees, as specified on
the City of Pismo Beach website. Electronic signatures shall be accepted on all
electronic submittals in lieu of a wet signature.
   2.   A permit application for an electric vehicle charging station shall be
deemed complete when the building official determines that the application
satisfies all the information requirements in the checklists and standard
plans.
   3.   If a permit application for an electric vehicle charging station is
deemed incomplete, a written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in
the application and any additional information or documentation required to be
eligible for expedited permit issuance shall be sent to the applicant for
resubmission.
   4.   An application for an electric vehicle charging station shall be
administratively reviewed and approved by the building official as a
nondiscretionary permit within in a reasonable time following receipt of a
complete application that satisfies the requirements of the approved checklists
and standard plans, and includes payment of all required permit processing and
inspection fees.
   5.   The building official may require the applicant to apply for a use
permit pursuant to other City Municipal Code provisions if the building
official, based on substantial evidence, determines that the proposed electric
vehicle charging station could have a specific, adverse impact upon the public
health and safety.
   6.   Approval of a permit application for an electric vehicle charging
station shall not be based or conditioned on the approval of an association, as
defined in Section 4080 of the Civil Code.
(Ord. O-2016-008 § 3 (part), 2016)
Chapter 15.16 POST DISASTER REGULATIONS
15.16.010 Intent.
   This chapter establishes standard placards to be used to indicate the
condition of a structure for continued occupancy following an earthquake or
other destructive event. The chapter further authorizes the building official
and his or her representatives to post the appropriate placard at each entry to
a building or structure upon completion of a safety assessment. (Ord. 07-13 § 1
(part), 2007)
15.16.020 Application of provisions.
   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to all buildings and
structures of all occupancies regulated by the city of Pismo Beach following
each destructive event. The city council may extend the provisions as
necessary. (Ord. 07-13 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.16.030 Definitions.
   Safety Assessment. A visual, nondestructive examination of a building or
structure for the purpose of determining the condition for continued use. (Ord.
07-13 § 1 (part), 2007)
15.16.040 Placards.
   A.   The following official placards shall be used to designate the
condition for occupancy of buildings or structures:
   1.   Green: "Inspected - Lawful Occupancy Permitted" is to be posted on any
building or structure wherein no apparent structural hazard has been found.
This placard is not intended to mean that there is no damage to the building or
structure.
   2.   Yellow: "Restricted Use" is to be posted on each building or structure
that has been damaged wherein the damage has resulted in some form of
restriction to the continued occupancy. The individual who posts this placard
will note in general terms the type of damage encountered and will clearly and
concisely note the restriction on continued occupancy.
   3.   Red: "Unsafe - Do Not Enter or Occupy" is to be posted on each building
or structure that has been damaged such that continued occupancy poses a threat
to life safety. Buildings or structures posted with this placard shall not be
entered under any circumstances except as authorized in writing by the building
official or his or her authorized representative. Safety assessment teams shall
be authorized to enter these buildings at any time. This placard is not to be
used or considered as a demolition order. The individual who posts this placard
will note in general terms the type of damaged encountered.
   B.   The placard shall display the number of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, and the name, address and phone number of the jurisdiction.
   Once the placard has been attached to the building or structure, it shall
not be removed, altered or covered until authorized representative by the
building official. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
alter, remove, cover or deface a placard unless authorized pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 07-13 § 1 (part), 2007)
Chapter 15.28 INTERIM SCHOOL FACILITIES
15.28.010 Title.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the interim school
facilities ordinance. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.010)
15.28.020 Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a method for financing interim
school facilities necessitated by conditions of overcrowding caused by new
residential developments. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.020)
15.28.030 Findings and declarations.
   The city council finds and declares as follows:
   A.   Adequate school facilities should be available for children residing in
new residential developments.
   B.   Public and private residential developments may require the expansion
of existing public schools or the construction of new school facilities.
   C.   In all areas of the city, the funds for the construction of new
classroom facilities are not available when new development occurs, resulting
in the overcrowding of existing schools.
   D.   New housing developments frequently cause conditions of overcrowding in
existing school facilities which cannot be alleviated under existing law within
a reasonable period of time.
   E.   There is a necessity for new and improved methods of financing interim
school facilities necessitated by such new development.
   F.   All school attendance areas within the city may presently have
conditions of overcrowding.
   G.   And, whereas, authority exists under state law to require developers to
provide interim facility for five years to alleviate such conditions of
overcrowding in a specific school attendance area.
   H.   Now, therefore, the city council implements a process whereby every
subdivider, developer or person seeking re-zonings, precise plan approval,
conditional use permits, planned unit developments, building permits or use
change of existing structures for any residential development may be required,
for the purpose of providing interim school facilities reasonably benefiting
and serving the residents of the subdivision of property to be developed, to
dedicate a portion of the land or, in lieu thereof, pay a fee for each dwelling
unit in the subdivision or development, or do both as required by this title.
The dedication or payment of fees in lieu thereof shall be applicable to all
residential developments of any type all owed under the various and several
residential zones of the city. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code
§ 15.45.030)
15.28.040 Definitions.
   Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section shall govern the construction of this title.
   "Attendance area" means that area established by the governing board of the
school district, within which children must reside to attend a particular
school.
   "Certificate of compliance" is certification from the city that a
development has met all criteria for provision of fees, land, or both to
mitigate conditions of school overcrowding in a specific school attendance area
to be caused by the development.
   "Conditions of overcrowding" means that the total enrollment of a school,
including enrollment from the proposed development, exceeds the capacity of
such school as determined by the school district and by the school district's
class size formulae and by specific classroom use designated by the district.
In no case shall the capacity so computed exceed the design capacity of the
school as determined by the State Bureau of School Facilities planning and
contracts with school employee groups.
   "Developer" means any person, association, firm, corporation and other
business entity, or public agency installing or constructing a new dwelling
unit or mobilehome space.
   "Dwelling unit" includes each single family dwelling and each unit of a
multiple unit dwelling structure designed or modified to be used as a separate
habitation for one or more occupants, including mobile homes. "Dwelling unit"
also includes a new factory built housing unit installed in accordance with
Section 19960 et seq. of the Health and Safety Code.
   "Interim use facilities" and "Relocatables" mean temporary classrooms not
constructed with a permanent foundation and defined as a structure containing
one or more rooms each of which is designed, intended and equipped for use as a
place for formal instruction of pupils by a teacher in a school; temporary
classroom toilet facilities not constructed with a permanent foundation, and;
reasonable site preparation and installation of temporary classrooms and toilet
facilities.
   "Mobilehome space" includes each space in a mobilehome park designed to be
used for parking a mobilehome on a temporary, semi-permanent or permanent
basis.
   "Reasonable methods for mitigating conditions of overcrowding" include, but
are not limited to:
   1.   The availability of funds, the use of which would not impair the normal
functioning of continuous school programs as authorized by Education Code
Section 37600 et seq. and use of available annual tax rate and bond revenues to
the full extent authorized by law;
   2.   Attendance area boundary adjustments;
   3.   The use of school district property for temporary-use buildings;
   4.   The temporary or permanent use of other schools in the district not
having overcrowded conditions;
   5.   The use of student transportation;
   6.   The use of existing and proposed relocatable structures;
   7.   The use of available bond or state loan revenues to the extent
authorized by law;
   8.   The full use of funds which could be available from the sale of surplus
school district real property and funds available from other appropriate
sources, as determined by the governing body of affected school districts;
   9.   Agreements between a developer and school district whereby temporary-
use buildings or relocatables will be purchased and/or leased by the developer
for the benefit of the school district;
   10.   Agreements between a developer and school district whereby temporary-
use buildings or relocatables will be leased by the school district at
developer expense.
   11.   Eliminating low priority schools and facilities;
   12.   Implementing year-round school or similar measures.
   "Residential development" means a project containing residential dwellings
including mobilehomes or mobilehome spaces, of one or more units, or a division
of land for the purpose of constructing one or more residential units.
Residential development includes, but is not limited to, a preliminary or final
development plan, a subdivision tentative parcel map, conditional use permit,
or any other discretionary permit for new residential use.
   "School district" includes all school districts located in whole or in part
within the incorporated areas of the city. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior
code § 15.45.070)
15.28.050 Authority and conflict.
   This title is enacted pursuant to Ordinance 4.7 (commencing with Section
65970 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code). In the case of any
conflict between the provisions of this title and those of Ordinance 4.7, the
latter shall prevail. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.040)
15.28.060 General plan/coastal plan.
   The city's general plan provides for the location of public schools. Interim
school facilities to be constructed from fees or land required to be dedicated,
or both, shall be consistent with the general plan/coastal plan. (Ord. 89-21
§ 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.050)
15.28.070 Regulations.
   The city may from time to time, by resolution, issue regulations to
establish fees, administration, procedures, interpretation and policy direction
for this chapter. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.060)
15.28.080 Notification of conditions of overcrowding.
   When the governing body of a school district, which operates, in whole or in
part, within the city notifies the city council that conditions of overcrowding
exist in one or more attendance areas within the district, pursuant to
Government Code Section 65971, such notice and findings shall be in writing and
contain the following:
   A.   Clear and convincing evidence upon which the findings of overcrowding
are based and evidence that such overcrowding will impair the normal
functioning of educational programs;
   B.   The reasons why such overcrowded conditions exist.
   C.   A description of the reasonable methods of mitigating conditions of
overcrowding that were evaluated, including those listed in Section
15.28.070, the reasons why such mitigating methods are unfeasible, and a
statement that no other feasible method for mitigation of the condition exists.
   D.   A description of the geographic boundaries of the overcrowded
attendance area or areas. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.080)
15.28.090 City council—Public hearing on overcrowding.
   A.   Within thirty days of receipt of a school district's complete notice of
overcrowding, the city council shall commence a public hearing, and shall
thereafter do one of the following:
   1.   Concur in the school district's findings;
   2.   Request additional information to verify the school district's findings
of overcrowding;
   3.   Reject the school district's findings of overcrowding and inform the
school district of the reasons for such rejection.
   B.   If the city council concurs with a school district's findings that
conditions of overcrowding exist within an attendance area, it shall adopt a
resolution specifying its concurrence based upon the evidence provided in the
school district's notice and findings and adopting a schedule of fees required
to be paid by developers. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.090)
15.28.100 School district plan to solve overcrowding.
   A.   After the council's adoption of a resolution of concurrence with the
school district's notice and findings, the governing body of the school
district shall submit a detailed plan or schedule specifying how it will use
land or fees, or both, to solve the conditions of overcrowding. The schedule
shall include the school sites to be used, the classroom facilities to be made
available, and the times when such facilities will be available. In the event
the governing body of the school district cannot meet the schedule, it shall
submit modifications to the city council together with the reasons for the
modifications.
   B.   The Council shall review such plan at regular meeting, and may report
to the school district any recommendations for revisions of the schedule.
   C.   No fees or land dedication shall be utilized by the school district
prior to the council's receipt of the school district's plan and opportunity to
submit recommendations for revision. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code
§ 15.45.100)
15.28.110 Dedication of land or payment of fees by developers.
   A.   After the city council's adoption of a resolution under Section
15.28.090, no residential building or other construction permit shall be issued
for any residential construction in the attendance area described in said
notice and findings, until the developer has either dedicated land or paid fees
to the school district as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Such land dedication and/or fee payment requirements shall also be
applicable to, and shall be dedicated or paid prior to, any change from
temporary to permanent or long-term use or occupancy of motels, hotels,
recreational vehicle parks, and any other commercial business or building
designed and approved for short-term occupancy or non-residential use.
   C.   Fees. The council may amend such fee schedules by resolution from time
to time. The maximum fee per dwelling may be reduced by the city council in the
event the developer is providing a combination of fees and land dedication.
   D.   The school district may provide updated information to the city council
from time to time which the council may utilize in electing to adjust fees.
Such information may consist of, but is not limited to, new census data for the
city, school census data for the city, new lease and purchase data for
relocatables and changes in classroom maximums or standards. Only fees shall be
required in subdivisions of fifty parcels or less.
   E.   Land Dedication. In any subdivision larger than fifty parcels, the
developer may pay the per unit fee amount for all units. However, if the
developer and the school district propose to agree to land dedication in lieu
of fees, the city council shall consider the proposal at its next regularly
scheduled meeting, and may approve or disapprove the dedication after
considering at least the following factors:
   1.   Whether lands offered for dedication will be consistent with the
General Plan/Local Coastal Plan;
   2.   The topography, soils, soil stability, drainage, access, location and
general utility of land in the development available for dedication;
   3.   Any recommendations made by affected school districts concerning the
location and amount of lands to be dedicated;
   4.   Whether the location and amount of lands proposed to be dedicated or
the amount of fees to be paid, or both, will bear a reasonable relationship and
will be limited to the needs of the community for interim
elementary and/or high school facilities, including all mandated educational
programs, and will be reasonably related and limited to the need for schools
caused by the development. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code
§ 15.45.110)
15.28.120 Application by developer.
   At the time of filing an application for the approval of a residential
development, the applicant shall present to the community development director
evidence of one of the following:
   A.   An agreement in writing with the affected school district by which the
applicant agrees to pay to the school district and the school district agrees
to accept the fees required by any resolution of the city council adopted
pursuant to Section
15.28.110 which is in effect at the time the applicant applies for a building
permit for the dwelling unit.
   B.   An agreement in writing with the affected school district by which the
applicant agrees to dedicate to the school district and the school district
agrees to accept land to be used to relieve the overcrowding in the district's
schools as an alternative to payment of fees under subsection A of this
section. Such agreement shall include the legal description of the property and
a promise to convey the property to the school district by grant deed not later
than the date of issuance of building permits for the dwelling units.
   C.   A written statement of the applicant, with supporting documentation,
that there are specific overriding fiscal, economic, social or environmental
factors benefiting the city which will justify the approval of such development
without compliance with the fee payment or land dedication requirements.
   D.   If the applicant provides such a statement of overriding factors under
subsection C, the city planner shall place the matter on the agenda of the city
council for public hearing to be held not less than thirty days after receipt
of the statement, and shall give the school district at least ten days written
notice of the hearing along with a copy of the statement.
   E.   If, after public hearing, the city council agrees that overriding
factors benefiting the city justify approval without the payment of fees or
dedication of land, it shall direct the city planner to accept and process the
application. If the city council finds that there are not sufficient overriding
factors, it shall direct the city planner to reject the application and take no
further action to process it until the documentation required by subsection A
or B has been provided.
   F.   Specific overriding factors benefiting the city may include, but are
not limited to, a written voluntary agreement between a developer and the
school district during the environmental review process whereby the developer
agrees to pay sufficient fees and/or dedicate sufficient land to the school
district to mitigate all impacts of overcrowding caused by a proposed
residential development.
   G.   If an overriding factor approval is based on such a voluntary agreement
at the environmental review stage for developer mitigation of all impacts of
overcrowding, no public hearing will be required; however, the school district
shall submit a copy of the agreement to the city, and the school board shall
certify that all impacts of overcrowding caused by the development have been
mitigated.
   H.   The city planner shall refuse to accept for filing or otherwise to
process an application for residential development within a school attendance
area in which the city council has found that conditions of overcrowding exist,
until the applicant has complied with this section. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part),
1989: prior code § 15.45.120)
15.28.130 Use of land and fees.
   All land or fees, or both collected by a school district pursuant to this
title shall be used only for the purpose of providing interim elementary or
high school classroom facilities. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code
§ 15.45.130)
15.28.140 Exemptions.
   Residential developments shall be exempt from the requirements of this title
when they consist only of the following:
   A.   Any modification or remodeling of an existing legally established
dwelling unit that does not create an additional bedroom or dwelling unit;
   B.   The proposed development is located with a redevelopment area
designated by a redevelopment agency pursuant to the Community Redevelopment
Law, Health and Safety Code Section 33000; or
   C.   A condominium project converting an existing apartment building into a
condominium where no new dwelling units are added;
   D.   Any rebuilding or a legally established dwelling unit destroyed or
damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or other accident or catastrophe;
   E.   Any rebuilding of a historical building recognized, acknowledged and
designated as such by the planning commission or city council;
   F.   Any residential development where the city council finds there are
specific overriding fiscal, economic, social or environmental factors
benefiting the
city which, in the sole judgment of the city council, would justify the
approval of such development without the payment of fees of dedication of land.
The developer or any councilmember may request city council consideration of
this exemption for any particular development.
   G.   Any residential development where the developer and the school district
have entered into a written agreement whereby the developer will provide to the
school district, for its use as it deems best, fees and/or land at least equal
to the amount required by this title for interim facilities. This exemption
shall become effective only upon the final adoption by the city of a school
facilities fee ordinance with an exemption substantially similar to the one in
this chapter, but shall then become retroactive to the date of adoption of this
title. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.140)
15.28.150 Fee and/or land payment—Certificate of compliance—Issuance.
   A.   If the payment of fees is required, such payment shall be made by the
developer to the school district prior to the building permit being issued.
   B.   Where land is to be made available, the developer shall provide a
recordable written agreement to the school district which grants to the school
district exclusive use of the land.
   C.   Within five days upon receiving the fees and/or recordable agreement,
the school district shall notify the community development director so he may
issue a certificate of compliance to the developer. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part),
1989: prior code § 15.45.150)
15.28.160 Termination of requirements.
   As soon as overcrowding conditions cease to exist, the school district shall
immediately notify the city council. Upon receiving such notice, or upon city
council determination that overcrowding conditions cease to exist, the city
council shall cease the requirement of fees or land required by this chapter.
If the school district has money from fees previously paid into its interim
school facility account after overcrowding conditions cease to exist, it shall
apply such fees to mitigate future overcrowded conditions in the same
attendance area for which the fees were collected; provided, however, if
overcrowded conditions do not occur in said attendance area within five years
from the date of when overcrowded conditions cease to exist, such fees may be
applied to relieve overcrowded conditions in other attendance areas within the
school district. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.45.160)
15.28.170 Accounting and annual report.
   Any school district receiving funds or land pursuant to this title shall
maintain a separate account for any funds paid and shall file a report with the
city council on the balance in the account at the end of the previous fiscal
year and the facilities leased, purchased or constructed during the previous
fiscal year. In addition, the reports shall specify which attendance areas will
continue to be overcrowded when the fall term begins and when and where
conditions of overcrowding will no longer exist. Such report shall be filed by
August 1st of each year and shall be filed more frequently if requested by the
city council. The city may, at any reasonable time, cause an independent audit
to be conducted of the fees collected by the governing board for the purposes
authorized by this section. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code
§ 15.45.170)
Chapter 15.32 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT GROWTH MANAGEMENT
15.32.010 Exemptions.
   The following types of residential development shall be exempted from the
provisions of this title:
   A.   Replacement of existing residential units as per the requirements of
the city's general plan, zoning ordinance and local coastal plan, up to
replacement of residential units on a one-for-one basis; or
   B.   Room additions or remodeling which do not result in an increase in the
number of dwelling units in the city. (Ord. 98-05 § 1 (part), 1998: Ord. 89-21
§ 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.48.020)
15.32.020 Annual housing review.
   In January of each calendar year the city council shall review the housing
unit growth over the prior calendar year. It shall be the responsibility of
city staff to schedule this review and provide the city council with at least
the following information:
   A.   The percentage of growth that occurred during the prior calendar year;
   B.   The total number of residential units that have applied for a building
permit in the prior calendar year;
   C.   A report on the status of public infrastructure and its capability to
serve current and future needs including water supply capacity, wastewater
collection and treatment capacity, and street system capacity. (Ord. 98-05 § 1
(part), 1998: Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.48.030)
15.32.030 Growth rate—Policy.
   No other provisions of law withstanding during any calendar year, the city
building official shall not issue building permits for new dwelling units which
exceed three percent of the total number of dwelling units existing in the city
on January 1 of the prior calendar year, as estimated by the California
Department of Finance. The procedures for compliance with this three percent
residential growth rate shall be provided by city council resolution. (Ord. 98-
05 § 1 (part), 1998: Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1998: prior code § 15.48.050)
15.32.040 New subdivision recordation limits.
   For subdivisions determined by the planning commission and/or city council
to be subject to the provisions of this title, subdivision maps not to exceed
fifty units or lots shall be the maximum size application considered for final
maps to be recorded. It shall be acceptable to process tentative tract maps
that will include phased final map recordations, provided that no final map
shall exceed the fifty unit or lot limitation. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989:
prior code § 15.48.040)
15.32.060 Water and sewer consumption—Policies.
   The city council may, from time to time, adopt resolutions outlining
policies that relate to the provision of water and/or sewer services to new
developments of all land uses. These policies shall be considered an extension
of this title. (Ord. 89-21 § 1 (part), 1989: prior code § 15.48.060)
Chapter 15.44 FLOOD HAZARD AREA USE CONTROL
  Article I. Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
15.44.010   Statutory authorization.
   The Legislature of the State of California has in California Government Code
Sections 65302, 65560, and 65800 conferred upon local governments the authority
to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council of the City of Pismo
Beach does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.020   Findings of fact.
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Pismo Beach are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities also contributes to flood losses.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.030   Statement of purpose.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by legally enforceable regulations applied
uniformly throughout the community to all publicly and privately owned land
within flood prone, mudslide [i.e. mudflow] or flood-related erosion areas.
These regulations are designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.040   Methods of reducing flood losses.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes regulations to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
Article II. Definitions
15.44.050   Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   "A zone." see "Special flood hazard area" as defined in this section.
   "Accessory structure, low-cost and small" means a structure that is:
   1.   Solely for the parking of no more than two cars; or limited storage
(small, low cost sheds); and
   2.   Having a gross floor area of 120 square feet or less.
   "Accessory use" means a use which is incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   "Alluvial fan" means a geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or
fan-shaped deposit of boulders, gravel, and fine sediments that have been
eroded from mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and then deposited on
the valley floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high-velocity flows,
debris flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition, and channel migration.
   "Apex" means a point on an alluvial fan or similar land form below which the
flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
alluvial fan flooding can occur.
   "Appeal" means a request for a review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   "Area of shallow flooding" means a designated AO or AH Zone on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet;
a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   "Area of special flood hazard." See "Special flood hazard area " as defined
in this section.
   "Base flood" means a flood which has a one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). “Base flood”
is the term used throughout this chapter.
   "Base flood elevation (BFE)” means the elevation shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map for Zones AE, AH and VE that indicates the water surface
elevation resulting from a flood that has a one percent or greater chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   "Basement" means any area of the building having its floor subgrade, i.e.,
below ground level, on all sides.
   "Breakaway walls" are any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and
whether constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other
suitable building material which is not part of the structural support of the
building and which is designed to break away under abnormally high tides or
wave action without causing any damage to the structural integrity of the
building on which they are used or any buildings to which they might be carried
by flood waters. A “breakaway wall” shall have a safe design loading resistance
of not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds per square foot. Use of
breakaway walls must be certified by a registered engineer or architect and
shall meet the following conditions:
   1.   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less than that
which would occur during the base flood; and
   2.   The elevated portion of the building shall not incur any structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously, in the
event of the base flood.
   "Building" see "Structure" as defined in this section.
   "Coastal high hazard area" means an area of special flood hazard extending
from offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. It is an area subject to high velocity waters, including coastal and
tidal inundation or tsunamis. The area is designated on a Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) as Zone VE, or V.
   "Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or
storage of equipment or materials.
   "Encroachment" means the advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   "Existing manufactured home park or subdivision" means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August
8, 1984 (30 days after adoption of Ordinance O-337).
   "Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision" means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   "Flood”, “flooding”, or “flood water" means:
   1.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows); and
   2.   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion.
   "Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM)" means the official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the floodway.
   "Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)" means the official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
   "Flood Insurance Study" means the official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation of
the base flood.
   "Floodplain” or “flood-prone area" means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source. See also "Flooding" as defined in this
section.
   "Floodplain Administrator" is the community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   "Floodplain management" means the operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and
enhancing, where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but
not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain
management regulations, and open space plans.
   "Floodplain management regulations" means this chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, such as grading and erosion control, and other
application of police power which control development in flood prone areas.
This term describes federal, state or local regulations in any combination
thereof which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage.
   "Floodproofing" means any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures, and their contents. For guidelines on dry and wet
floodproofing, see FEMA Technical Bulletins TB1-93, TB3-93, and TB7-93.
   "Floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Also referred to as "Regulatory Floodway."
   "Floodway fringe" is that area of the floodplain on either side of the
"Regulatory Floodway" where encroachment may be permitted.
   "Fraud and victimization" as related to Section
15.44.260, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the city council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed building adds to government
responsibilities and remains a part of the community for fifty to one hundred
years. Buildings that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages bring. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   "Functionally dependent use" means a use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair facilities, and does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
   "Governing body" is the city of Pismo Beach, which is empowered to adopt and
implement regulations to provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of its citizenry.
   "Hardship" as related to Section
15.44.260, means the exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to
grant the requested variance. The city council requires that the variance be
exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or
financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of
one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship.
All of these problems can be resolved through other means without granting a
variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property
owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally
intended.
   "Highest adjacent grade" means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   "Historic structure" means any structure that is:
   1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of Interior; or
   4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
   "Levee" means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed
and constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain,
control or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   "Levee system" means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
   "Lowest floor" means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement (see "Basement" definition). An unfinished or flood-resistant
enclosure below the lowest floor that is usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement area, is not
considered a building's lowest floor provided it conforms to applicable non-
elevation design requirements, including, but not limited to:
   1.   The flood openings standard in Section
15.44.170.C.3;
   2.   The anchoring standards in Section
15.44.170.A;
   3.   The construction materials and methods standards in Section
15.44.170.B; and
   4.   The standards for utilities in Section
15.44.180.
   "Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   "Manufactured home park or subdivision" means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.
   "Market value" shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the
structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of
depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed. The cost of
replacement of the structure shall be based on a report prepared by an
independent professional appraiser.
   "Mean sea level" means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance
Program, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which base flood elevations
shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
   "New construction", for floodplain management purposes, means structures for
which the start of construction commenced on or after August 8, 1984, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   "New manufactured home park or subdivision" means a manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, is completed on or after August 8,
1984.
   "Obstruction" includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
   "100-year flood." See "Base flood" as defined in this section.
   "Primary frontal dune" means a continuous or nearly continuous mound or
ridge of sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately
landward and adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from
high tides and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the
primary frontal dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from
a relatively mild slope.
   "Program deficiency" means a defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management regulations.
   "Public safety and nuisance" as related to Section
15.44.260, means that the granting of a variance must not result in anything
which is injurious to safety or health of an entire community or neighborhood,
or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage
or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream,
canal, or basin.
   "Recreational vehicle" means a vehicle which is:
   1.   Built on a single chassis;
   2.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   "Regulatory floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot.
   "Remedy a violation" means to bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing state or federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   "Riverine" means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river, including
tributaries, stream, brook, etc.
   "Sand dunes" mean naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or
mounds landward of the beach.
   "Sheet flow area" see "Area of shallow flooding" as defined in this section.
   "Special flood hazard area (SFHA)" means an area in the floodplain subject
to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown
on an FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AO, AE, A99, AH, VE or V.
   "Start of construction" includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty days
from the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on
a foundation. “Permanent construction” does not include land preparation, such
as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual “start of construction”
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   "Structure" means a walled and roofed building that is principally above
ground; this includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured home.
   "Substantial damage" means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed fifty percent of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
   "Substantial improvement" means any reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   2.   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   "V zone." see "Coastal high hazard area" as defined in this section.
   "Variance" means a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter
which permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by
this chapter.
   "Violation" means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   "Water surface elevation" means the height, in relation to the National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, or other datum, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the
floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
   "Watercourse" means a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or
other topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
“Watercourse” includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
Article III. General Provisions
15.44.060   Lands to which this chapter applies.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.070   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the "Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for San Luis
Obispo County, California and Incorporated Areas" dated August 28, 2008, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway
Maps (FBFMs), dated August 28, 2008, and all subsequent amendments and/or
revisions, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of
this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the city council by
the floodplain administrator. The study, FIRMs and FBFMs are on file at the
City of Pismo Beach Engineering and Planning Divisions, 760 Mattie Road, Pismo
Beach, California.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.080   Compliance.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the requirements of this
chapter, including violations of conditions and safeguards, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prevent the city council from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.090   Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.100   Interpretation.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.110   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any elected or appointed
official, officer or employee thereof, the State of California, or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.120   Severability.
   This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be
severable. Should any section of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the section so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
Article IV. Administration
15.44.130   Designation of the floodplain administrator.
   The community development director in cooperation with the city engineer is
hereby appointed to administer, implement, and enforce this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accord with its provisions.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.140   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
   A.   Permit Review. Review all development permits to determine:
   1.   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied, including
determination of substantial improvement and substantial damage of existing
structures;
   2.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
   3.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
   4.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. This means that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the city: and
   5.   All Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs) for flood control projects are
approved prior to the issuance of building permits. Building permits must not
be issued based on Conditional Letters of Map Revision (CLOMRs). Approved
CLOMRs allow construction of the proposed flood control project and land
preparation as specified in the "start of construction" definition.
   B.   Development of Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage
Procedures.
   1.   Using FEMA publication FEMA 213, Answers to Questions About
Substantially Damaged Buildings, develop detailed procedures for identifying
and administering requirements for substantial improvement and substantial
damage, to include defining "market value."
   2.   Assure procedures are coordinated with other departments/divisions and
implemented by community staff.
   C.   Review, Use and Development of Other Base Flood Data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with Section
15.44.070, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer Article V of this
chapter.
   NOTE: A base flood elevation may be obtained using one of two methods from
the FEMA publication, FEMA 265, Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate
Zone A Areas - A Guide for Obtaining and Developing Base (100-year) Flood
Elevations dated July 1995.
   D.    Notification of Other Agencies.
   1.   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse:
   a.   Notify adjacent communities and the California Department of Water
Resources prior to alteration or relocation;
   b.   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
   c.   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse is maintained.
   2.   Base flood elevation changes due to physical alterations:
   a.   Within six months of information becoming available or project
completion, whichever comes first, the floodplain administrator shall submit or
assure that the permit applicant submits technical or scientific data to FEMA
for a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR).
   b.   All LOMRs for flood control projects are approved prior to the issuance
of building permits. Building permits must not be issued based on conditional
letters of map revision (CLOMRs). Approved CLOMRs allow construction of the
proposed flood control project and land preparation as specified in the "start
of construction" definition. Such submissions are necessary so that upon
confirmation of those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk
premium rates and floodplain management requirements are based on current data.
   3.   Changes in corporate boundaries: Notify FEMA in writing whenever the
corporate boundaries have been modified by annexation or other means and
include a copy of a map of the community clearly delineating the new corporate
limits.
   E.   Documentation of Floodplain Development. Obtain and maintain for public
inspection and make available as needed the following:
   1.   Certification required by Section
15.44.170.C.1. and Section
15.44.200, Lowest Floor Elevations;
   2.   Certification required by Section
15.44.170.C.2,. Elevation or Floodproofing of Nonresidential Structures;
   3.   Certification required by Sections
15.44.170.C.3., Wet Floodproofing Standard;
   4.   Certification of elevation required by Section
15.44.190.A.3., Subdivisions and Other Proposed Development Standards;
   5.   Certification required by Section
15.44.220.B. Floodway Encroachments;
   6.   Information required by Section
15.44.230.F., Coastal Construction Standards); and
   7.   Maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance, and report such variances issued in its biennial report
submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   F.   Map Determination. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in Section
15.44.160.
   G.   Remedial Action. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as
specified in Section
15.44.080.
   H.   Biennial Report. Complete and submit Biennial Report to FEMA.
   I.   Planning. Assure the city's general plan is consistent with floodplain
management objectives herein.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.150   Development permit.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development, including manufactured homes, within any area of special flood
hazard established in Section
15.44.070. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the community development department. The applicant shall provide
the following minimum information:
   A.   Plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing:
   1.   Location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in question, existing
or proposed structures, storage of materials and equipment and their location;
   2.   Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and other
utilities;
   3.   Grading information showing existing and proposed contours, any
proposed fill, and drainage facilities;
   4.   Location of the regulatory floodway when applicable;
   5.   Base flood elevation information as specified in Section
15.44.070 or Section
15.44.140.C.;
   6.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all structures; and
   7.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed, as required in Section
15.44.170.C.2. and detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin TB3-93.
   B.   Certification from a registered civil engineer or architect that the
nonresidential floodproofed building meets the floodproofing criteria in
Section
15.44.170.C.2.
   C.   For a crawl space foundation, location and total net area of foundation
openings as required in Section
15.44.170.C.3. and detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletins 1-93 and 7-93.
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   E.   All appropriate certifications listed in Section
15.44.140.E.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.160   Appeals.
   The planning commission shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
Appeals shall be filed and processed in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Chapter 17.54.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
Article V. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
15.44.170   Standards of construction.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements of
structures, including manufactured homes, shall be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   Construction Materials and Methods. All new construction and
substantial improvements of structures, including manufactured homes, shall be
constructed:
   1.   With flood-resistant materials, and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage for areas below the base flood elevation;
   2.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   3.   With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding; and
   4.   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Elevation and Floodproofing.
   1.   Residential construction. All new construction or substantial
improvements of residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including
basement:
   a.   In AE, AH, and A zones, elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   b.   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height
equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
   c.   In an A zone, without BFEs specified on the FIRM elevated to or above
the base flood elevation; as determined under Section
15.44.140.C.
   d.   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, and verified by the community building inspector to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator.
   2.   Nonresidential construction. All new construction or substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures shall either be elevated to conform
to Section
15.44.170.C.1.; or
   a.   Be floodproofed, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the elevation recommended under Section
15.44.170.C.1., so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
   b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
   c.   Be certified by a registered civil engineer or architect that the
standards of Section
15.44.170.C.2.a. and b. are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to
the floodplain administrator.
   3.   Flood openings. All new construction and substantial improvements of
structures with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor, excluding
basements, that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of flood water. Designs for meeting this requirement must meet the
following minimum criteria:
   a.   For non-engineered openings:
   (1)   Have a minimum of two openings on different sides having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding;
   (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade;
   (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood water; and
   (4)   Buildings with more than one enclosed area must have openings on
exterior walls for each area to allow flood water to directly enter and exit;
or
   b.   Be certified by a registered civil engineer or architect.
   4.   Manufactured homes. See Section
15.44.200.
   5.   Garages and low cost accessory structures.
   a.   Attached garages.
   (1)   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with the
garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the automatic
entry of flood waters. See Section
15.44.170.C.3. Areas of the garage below the BFE must be constructed with
flood-resistant materials. See Section
15.44.170.B.
   (2)   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the above
requirements or be dry floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking areas,
see FEMA Technical Bulletin TB-6.
   b.   Detached garages and accessory structures.
   (1)   "Accessory structures" used solely for parking (two-car detached
garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low-cost sheds), as defined in
Article II, may be constructed such that its floor is below the base flood
elevation (BFE), provided the structure is designed and constructed in
accordance with the following requirements:
   (a)   Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking or limited
storage;
   (b)   The portions of the accessory structure located below the BFE must be
built using flood-resistant materials;
   (c)   The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
   (d)   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory structure must
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
   (e)   The accessory structure must comply with floodplain encroachment
provisions in Section
15.44.220; and
   (f)   The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters in accordance with Section
15.44.170.C.3.
   (2)   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the above
standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards in
Section
15.44.170.
   6.   Crawlspace construction. This subsection applies to buildings with
crawl spaces up to two feet below grade. Below-grade crawl space construction
in accordance with the requirements listed below will not be considered
basements.
   a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Crawl
space construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than
five feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design
professional, such as a registered architect or professional engineer;
   b.   The crawl space is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. For guidance on flood openings, see FEMA
Technical Bulletin 1-93;
   c.   Crawl space construction is not permitted in V zones. Open pile or
column foundations that withstand storm surge and wave forces are required in V
zones;
   d.   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawl space used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE; and
   e.   Any building utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that flood waters cannot enter or accumulate within
the system components during flood conditions.
   f.   Requirements for all below-grade crawl space construction, in addition
to the above requirements, to include the following:
   (1)   The interior grade of a crawl space below the BFE must not be more
than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG), shown as D in
Figure 3 of FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01;
   (2)   The height of the below-grade crawl space, measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (shown as L in Figure 3 of FEMA Technical Bulletin 11-01) at
any point;
   (3)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes flood waters
from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event, not to exceed seventy-two hours; and
   (4)   The velocity of flood waters at the site should not exceed five feet
per second for any crawl space. For velocities in excess of five feet per
second, other foundation types should be used.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.180   Standards for utilities.
   A.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate:
   1.   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
   2.   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   B.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them, or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.190   Standards for subdivisions and other proposed development.
   A.   All new subdivisions proposals and other proposed development,
including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions, greater than
fifty lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall:
   1.   Identify the special flood hazard areas (SFHA) and base flood
elevations (BFE).
   2.   Identify the elevations of lowest floors of all proposed structures and
pads on the final plans.
   3.   If the site is filled above the base flood elevation, the following as-
built information for each structure shall be certified by a registered civil
engineer or licensed land surveyor and provided as part of an application for a
letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) to the floodplain administrator:
   a.   Lowest floor elevation.
   b.   Pad elevation.
   c.   Lowest adjacent grade.
   B.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   C.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   D.   All subdivisions and other proposed development shall provide adequate
drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.200   Standards for manufactured homes.
   A.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved, on
sites located: (1) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; (2) in a
new manufactured home park or subdivision; (3) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or (4) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage as the result of a flood, shall:
   1.   Within Zones A, AH, AO, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate
Map, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely fastened to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   2.   Within Zones V, and VE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map,
meet the requirements of Section
15.44.230.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within Zones A, AH, AE,
AO, V, and VE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map that are not subject
to the provisions of Section
15.44.200.A. will be securely fastened to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, and be elevated so
that either the:
   1.   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation; or
   2.   Manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty-six inches in height above grade.
   C.   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, and verified by the community building inspector to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.210   Standards for recreational vehicles.
   A.   All recreational vehicles placed in Zones A, AH, AO, AE, V and VE will
either:
   1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty consecutive days; or
   2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; or
   3.   Meet the permit requirements of Section
15.44.150 and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes
in Section
15.44.200.
   B.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones V, and VE on the
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map will meet the requirements of Section
15.44.210.A. and Section
15.44.230.
   C.   Owners of recreational vehicle parks and owners of manufactured home
parks that allow placement of recreational vehicles must notify the floodplain
administrator prior to placing any new recreational vehicle, altering any
existing recreational vehicle, allowing the placement or alteration of, or
allowing any recreational vehicle to remain on site for more than one hundred
eighty consecutive days, such that the recreational vehicle fails to meet the
requirements of Subsections A.1. and 2. of this section. The owner of a
recreational vehicle that fails to meet the requirements of Subsections A.1.
and 2. of this section must apply for a city recreational vehicle permit and
provide certification from an approved special inspector that the recreational
vehicle complies with the requirements of Subsections A.3. and B. of this
section.
   D.   The owner of the recreational vehicle subject to the permit
requirements of Subsection C. of this section shall at the time of application
for the permit, pay to the city a processing fee in an amount established by
resolution of the city council.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.220   Floodways.
   Since floodways are an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood
waters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the
following provisions apply:
   A.   Until a regulatory floodway is adopted, no new construction,
substantial development, or other development, including fill, shall be
permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the city.
   B.   Within an adopted regulatory floodway, the city shall prohibit
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and
other development, unless certification by a registered civil engineer is
provided demonstrating that the proposed encroachment shall not result in any
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   C.   If Subsections A. and B. of this section are satisfied, all new
construction, substantial improvement, and other proposed new development shall
comply with all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
Article V.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.230   Coastal high hazard areas.
   Within coastal high hazard areas, Zones V, and VE, as established under
Section
15.44.070, the following standards shall apply:
   A.   All new residential and nonresidential construction, including
substantial improvement/damage, shall be elevated on adequately anchored
pilings or columns and securely anchored to such pilings or columns so that the
bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor,
excluding the pilings or columns, is elevated to or above the base flood level.
The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto is anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement due to the effects of wind and
water loads acting simultaneously on all building components. Water-loading
values used shall be those associated with the base flood. Wind-loading values
used shall be those required by applicable state or city building standards.
   B.   All new construction and other development shall be located on the
landward side of the reach of mean high tide.
   C.   All new construction and substantial improvement shall have the space
below the lowest floor free of obstructions or constructed with breakaway walls
as defined in Article II. Such enclosed space shall not be used for human
habitation and will be usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access
or storage.
   D.   Fill shall not be used for structural support of buildings.
   E.   Man-made alteration of sand dunes which would increase potential flood
damage is prohibited.
   F.   The Floodplain Administrator shall obtain and maintain the following
records:
   1.   Certification by a registered engineer or architect that a proposed
structure complies with Subsection A. of this section; and
   2.   The elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the bottom of the
lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor, excluding pilings or
columns, of all new and substantially improved structures, and whether such
structures contain a basement.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
Article VI. Variance Procedure
15.44.240   Nature of variances.
   A.   The issuance of a variance is for floodplain management purposes only.
Insurance premium rates are determined by statute according to actuarial risk
and will not be modified by the granting of a variance.
   B.   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
   C.   The city should help protect its citizens from flooding. This need is
so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a structure built
below flood level are so serious that variances from the flood elevation or
from other requirements in this chapter must be quite rare. The long- term goal
of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be met if variances
are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines provided in this
chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be met
before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to screen
out those situations in which alternatives other than a variance are more
appropriate.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.250   Conditions for variances.
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of Articles IV and V of this chapter have been fully considered. As
the lot size increases beyond one- half acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures", as defined in Article II of this chapter, upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the planning commission need not grant
permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation
the applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the planning
commission believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of this
chapter.
   E.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of the floodplain administrator that:
   1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty-five dollars for one hundred dollars of insurance
coverage; and
   2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the floodplain
administrator in the office of the county of San Luis Obispo recorder and shall
be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the
affected parcel of land.
   F.   The floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
15.44.260   Appeal board.
   A.   In passing upon requests for variances, the planning commission shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and the:
   1.   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   2.   Danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   3.   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
   4.   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
   5.   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
   6.   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are
not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   7.   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   8.   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   9.   Safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   10.   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
   11.   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   B.   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
   1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
   2.   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
   3.   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance (see "Public safety and nuisance"), cause
fraud and victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   C.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of Subsections A. through D. of this
section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   D.   Upon consideration of the factors of Section
15.44.250.A. and the purposes of this chapter, the planning commission may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. O-2008-006, § 1 (part), 2008)
Chapter 15.48 WATER-EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
15.48.010 Model water efficient landscaping standards and requirements.
   A.   The "Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance" (MWELO) of the State of
California, as contained in California Code of Regulations Title 23 Waters,
Division 2 Department of Water Resources, Chapter 2.7 Model Water Efficient
Landscape Ordinance, Sections 490 et seq. is hereby adopted by reference as the
water efficient landscape ordinance of the City of Pismo Beach, as the same may
be amended from time to time, as if set out in full in this chapter. "Local
agency" in the model water efficient landscape ordinance shall mean the City of
Pismo Beach.
   B.   Property owners or their building or landscape designers, including
anyone requiring a building or planning permit, plan check, or landscape design
review from the city, who are constructing a new (single-family, multi-family,
public, institutional, or commercial) project with a landscape area greater
than five hundred (500) square feet, or rehabilitating an existing landscape
with a total landscape area greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500)
square feet, shall comply with Sections 492.6(a)(3)(B) (C), (D), and (G) of the
Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance, including sections related to use of
compost and mulch as amended September 15, 2015.
   C.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the MWELO or the
regulations outlined in this chapter, new irrigated turf areas shall be
prohibited for all development beginning May 18, 2022, and continuing until
this subsection is repealed based on local drought conditions. During this
prohibition, artificial turf installed that allows appropriate water
infiltration based on the site's soil conditions is permitted to account for
any landscape required to be installed pursuant to the Pismo Beach Municipal
Code.
(Ord. O-2022-004 § 2, 2022; Ord. O-2021-004 § 3, 2021; Ord. O-2020-001, § 8,
2020)
Chapter 15.49 PUBLIC ART PROGRAM
15.49.010 Introduction.
   Public art in Pismo Beach beautifies private development and public places
for the visual pleasure of residents and visitors. Public art positively
impacts property values, enhances the Pismo Beach experience, and serves as an
economic catalyst. (Ord. O-2015-004 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.49.015 Definitions.
   A.   "Building development costs" shall mean those construction costs as
declared on all building permit applications for new construction as determined
by the city building official.
   B.   "Contribution requirement" shall mean a financial commitment for the
creation and installation of public art.
   C.   "Capital projects" shall mean new construction, expansion, or
replacement project for an existing city facility or facilities, except those
in the public right-of-way or those involving city utility systems.
   D.   "City" shall mean the city of Pismo Beach city council, parks,
recreation and beautification commission, the city manager, the risk manager,
the community development or public works/engineering departments and directors
of said departments.
   E.   "City facility" shall mean public buildings, parks and open spaces.
   F.   "Municipal development" shall mean city of Pismo Beach and any other
government agency capital project on public property; but shall exclude
improvements in the public right-of-way except those in the public right-of-way
or those involving city utility systems.
   G.   "Non-profit agency" shall mean a corporation organized under Internal
Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), in good standing with the California Department
of Corporations and in compliance with any and all federal, state, and local
licensing, reporting, and tax requirements.
   H.   "PRBC" shall mean the parks, recreation and beautification commission.
   I.   "Private development" shall mean the new construction or addition to
existing development on private property owned by individuals or companies;
private residential projects that create four or fewer units shall not be
included within the definition of private development.
   J.   "Public art" shall mean art installed on locations that allow viewing
visibility from a public right-of-way or from other public property as noted
below and special festivals and celebrations which promote or enhance these art
forms. These include:
   1.   Sculptures. Includes in-the-round, bas-relief, mobile, fountain,
kinetic, electronic or other in any material or combination of materials;
   2.   Painting and graphics. Includes large and small scale murals,
printmaking, drawing, calligraphy or other;
   3.   Photography and digital. Includes any combination of photography,
electronic media such as sound, film, holographic, video and other art forms on
a large public scale;
   4.   Mosaics and tile, chalk and sand art and sand sculpture;
   5.   Temporary displays of 1. through 4. above;
   6.   Capital improvements determined by the city council to be artistic in
value;
   7.   Any other art form determined by the city to satisfy the intent of this
section.
   K.   "Public art in-lieu contribution" shall equal the percentage of
building development costs required by this program.
   L.   "Public art ad-hoc committee" will be comprised of three individuals
with documented expertise in the particular art medium being evaluated; absent
available experts in the medium to be evaluated, other artists or individuals
with knowledge of the medium are permitted. The committee is not limited to
residents of Pismo Beach.
   M.   "Public art draft concept" shall consist of 1) a site plan to indicate
the location of the proposed public art; 2) sample, model, photograph or sketch
of proposed work; and 3) exemplars of materials, if applicable. (Ord. O- 2015-
004 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.49.020 Public art account.
   A.   There is hereby created the Pismo Beach public art account for the
public art in-lieu contributions, grants, other funding opportunities and all
other revenues appropriated or credited to or deposited into the account.
Except as set forth in Section 15.49.025, the public art account revenues shall
be used for:
   1.   The acquisition, commission, design, installation, improvement,
maintenance and insurance of public art;
   2.   The improvement of real property for the purpose of displaying public
art, which has been or may be subsequently approved by the city; or
   3.   Other expenses associated with implementation of the Pismo Beach public
art program.
   B.   The Pismo Beach public art account shall be distributed as follows:
   1.   Up to twenty percent of the annual Pismo Beach public art account shall
be used for administration for processing the public art submittal, approving
the public art, monitoring, compliance, or any other administrative task
associated with public art.
   2.   At least eighty percent of the annual Pismo Beach public art account
shall be used for public art acquisition, installation and the authorized
expenses specified in Section
15.49.025E.
   C.   The PRBC shall provide an annual report to the city council that
contains details of art acquired/installed and recommendations for use of
public art account funds in the next fiscal year(s). (Ord. O-2015-004 § 1
(part), 2015)
15.49.025 Contribution requirements and authorized expenses.
   A.   Private and municipal developments with building development costs of
more than two hundred fifty thousand dollars (as determined by the city
building official) shall devote an amount not less than one percent of such
costs for acquisition and installation of public art on the development site.
Based on a recommendation by the city manager, the city council may contribute
additional amounts to the public art account for capital projects. In lieu of
acquisition and installation of public art on a development site, an owner or
developer may request city approval for a public art in-lieu contribution to
fulfill the public art requirement. The Pismo Beach city planning commission
may authorize a public art in-lieu contribution should they determine as a part
of the discretionary review of a project that that installation of the public
art on the project site would be infeasible or undesirable. The public art in-
lieu contribution shall equal the cost that would have been required for
acquisition and installation of public art as noted above. The in-lieu fee
shall be paid prior to the issuance of a building permit for the project on the
development site. There shall be no future credits for owners or developers who
provide in-lieu contributions.
   B.   The public art in-lieu contribution requirement of this section shall
apply to all new private and municipal development, and additions of floor area
of fifty percent or more for existing commercial projects based on the value of
the addition as determined by the city building official. This section shall
also apply to remodeling or modification of existing structures of commercial
development, and multi-family development exceeding four units, with a
construction value equal to or more than fifty percent of the replacement cost
of the building as determined by the city building official. Mixed use projects
are also subject to the contribution requirement.
   C.   Subject to the approval of the city council, private development
applicants may incorporate into the project public art that has a value lower
than the contribution requirement. In such cases, the applicant shall pay a
public art in-lieu contribution to the public art account equal to the
difference between the lower value and the value established in Section
15.49.025A. and B. The value of the public art shall be determined by the
artist proposed by the applicant to create the public art for the development.
   D.   The city shall budget for public-sponsored art projects from an
appropriate fund and/or the public art account in such amounts as determined by
the city council during annual city budget review. Appropriations for the
public art program shall be made in accordance with the budgeting procedures of
the city.
   E.   Public art in-lieu contributions to the public art account may be used
for:
   1.   Works of art including design fees, commissions, engineering and
fabrication costs, and public art on public property;
   2.   Transportation of the work to the site;
   3.   Signage;
   4.   Installation costs including, but not limited to, mountings,
anchorages, containments, pedestals, bases, and/or utilities such as water and
power; and
   5.   Maintenance and repair of public art on public property.
   F.   Public art in-lieu contributions to the public art account may not be
used for:
   1.   The cost of housing the artist(s);
   2.   Land costs;
   3.   Landscaping around public art not integral to its design;
   4.   Publicity, public relations, photographs or dedication ceremonies;
   5.   Ongoing utility fees. (Ord. O- 2015-004 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.49.030 Administration.
   A.   Public art submittal to the city: Upon approval of concept by the PRBC
as noted in Section
15.49.035, a formal public art submittal shall be provided to the community
development department to check for compliance with zoning, general plan
requirements, building and fire code consistency, and the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA). The submittal shall be evaluated by the city public
works department and city risk manager to: 1) ensure the public art
installation will not create an undue risk or a safety problem; 2) consider
maintenance requirements; 3) determine durability; and 4) identify any
engineering concerns. The submittal shall include:
   1.   Landscape and site plans indicating the location and orientation of the
public art and the landscaping and architectural treatment integrating the
piece into the overall project design;
   2.   Sample, model, photograph or detailed drawings of the proposed public
art;
   3.   Exemplars of materials and finishes, if applicable;
   4.   Resume of the proposed artist;
   5.   If applicable, slides and/or photographs of the proposed artist's past
public art, demonstrating works similar to the proposal;
   6.   A written statement by the artist describing any theme and/or
conceptual development of the public art;
   7.   A written statement by the developer as to the manner in which the
public art will be displayed in an area that is visible from a public right-of-
way or public property;
   8.   A maintenance plan for the public art;
   9.   The cost of the work of art including installation at site;
   10.   Any such additional information or materials as may be required by the
community development director, public works director, city risk manager or
their designee(s).
   B.   Administrative processing: The community development director or his/
her designee shall be responsible for administrative tasks related to the
public art approval process, including, but not limited to, advertising for and
communicating with a public art ad-hoc committee, noticing for public meetings,
meeting with the property owner, conferring with other city departments, and
preparing and presenting staff reports.
   C.   Following public art project approval:
   1.   On private property: The community development director or his/her
designee shall require, prior to issuance of a building permit or certificate
of occupancy:
   a.   Payment of the public art in-lieu contribution for approved
development; or
   b.   Installation of the public art subject to approval of the public art
submittal; execution of an installation agreement; and evidence that a
maintenance covenant has been recorded against the property.
   2.   On public property: The public works director or his/her designee shall
require, prior to installation of approved public art on public property:
   a.   Plans identifying the installation method and consistency with city
construction requirements; and
   b.   Owner application for and public works department approval of an
encroachment permit to install the public art.
   c.   Execution of an agreement identifying the responsibilities for the
ongoing maintenance of the public art. (Ord. O-2015-004 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.49.035 Review and approval process.
   A.   PRBC concept review: A public art draft concept is approved as
appropriate by the parks, recreation and beautification commission (PRBC).
   B.   Public art submittal to the city: Upon approval of concept by the PRBC,
a formal public art submission shall be provided to the community development
department fulfilling the requirements stated in Section
15.49.030.
   C.   Public art ad-hoc committee selection: Following community development
staff advertisement for and compilation of ad-hoc committee applications, the
PRBC selects an ad-hoc committee to assist in the review of the public art. An
ad-hoc committee may be assembled for each individual public art proposal.
   D.   PRBC public hearing and action on public art on private property: The
PRBC, with advisement from the ad-hoc committee will evaluate the proposed
public art at the first available PRBC regular meeting within forty-five days
of receipt of a complete public art submittal, or as soon as possible
thereafter. The purpose of the public hearing will be for the PRBC to evaluate
the appropriateness and consistency of the proposed public art with the Pismo
Beach public art program and take action to approve or deny the public art
proposal. The PRBC's determination can be appealed to the city council within
ten working days of PRBC action. Within sixty days of receipt of the appeal or
as soon as possible thereafter, the city council will review and take final
action on the public art proposal.
   E.   PRBC recommendation and city council action on public art on public
property: The PRBC, with advisement from the ad-hoc committee will evaluate the
proposed public art in a public hearing at the first available PRBC regular
meeting within forty-five days of receipt of a complete submittal, or as soon
as possible thereafter, to evaluate the appropriateness and consistency of the
proposed public art on public property with the Pismo Beach public art program.
The PRBC will provide a recommendation to the city council and within sixty
days of the PRBC's recommendation or as soon as possible thereafter, the city
council will review and take final action on the public art proposal. (Ord. O-
2015-004 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.49.040 Installation and maintenance.
   A.   Installation:
   1.   Private development: Public art related to private development shall be
installed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for new construction
or final building inspection of a remodel. If installation prior to the date of
occupancy is impracticable as determined by the community development director
or his/her designee, a certificate of occupancy may be approved for the
building or portion thereof if the public art submittal pursuant to this
section has been approved, the applicant has executed a written agreement with
the city to install the public art, and the applicant has filed security in an
amount and form acceptable to the city attorney to guarantee installation of
the public art.
   2.   Municipal development: Public art related to municipal development
shall be installed prior to completion of the project. If installation prior to
the date of project completion is impracticable as determined by the public
works director or his/her designee, it shall be installed as soon as reasonably
possible thereafter.
   B.   Maintenance:
   1.   On private property: The community development director or his/her
designee shall ensure that the property owner maintains the public art, or
causes it to be continuously maintained in good condition after its
installation, and the property owner shall perform necessary repairs and
maintenance to the satisfaction of the city. The maintenance obligations of the
property owner shall be contained in a covenant and recorded against the
property by the applicant. Should the property owner wish to remove the public
art, the city must be notified in writing not later than forty-five days in
advance of the proposed removal date. The property owner shall replace the
public art with public art of equal or greater value before or concurrent with
removal of the existing art and provide consistency with the California
Preservation of Works of Art Act and the Federal Visual Artists' Rights Act and
any other relevant law.
   2.   On public property: The public works director or his/her designee shall
ensure that public art on property owned by the city is maintained in good
condition after its installation consistent with the agreement specified in
Section V.C.2.C). (Ord. O-2015-004 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.49.045 Standards for public art approval.
   The public art shall:
   A.   Fit the character of the area where it will be located.
   B.   Include timeless qualities for enduring enjoyment of the art work.
   C.   Stand out as a work of artistic merit.
   D.   Be compatible with the coastal, historic, or natural characteristics of
the city. (Ord. O-2015-004 § 1 (part), 2015)
Chapter 15.50 WATER-EFFICIENT FIXTURE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
15.50.010 Purpose.
   A.   This chapter shall supersede all other chapters of this code as well as
other codes governing the fixtures described herein. In furtherance of the
city's water conservation efforts, the purposes of this chapter shall be to:
   1.   Promote water conservation and recognize the need to utilize water and
other resources as efficiently as possible; and
   2.   Establish criteria and standards for the use of water conservation
fixtures for the retrofit of existing buildings and fixtures as well as use of
water conservation fixtures with respect to new construction.
   B.   No entity or organization shall be exempt from the requirements of this
chapter including, but not limited to, schools, state and federal agencies,
religious organizations and charities. (Ord. O-2015-005 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.50.020 Definitions.
   The following definitions are applicable within this chapter:
   A.   "Aerator" or "faucet aerator" means an apparatus installed on the
outlet of a faucet which aerates and/or restricts the flow of water.
   B.   "Sub-meter" means a water meter which is installed between the water
meter to a building and an individual space within the building, typically a
tenant space or unit, but can include common areas, landscape areas and other
such uses.
   C.   "Urinal" means a sanitary plumbing fixture for urination only.
   D.   "Waterless urinal" or "flushless urinal" means a sanitary plumbing
fixture for urination only that uses no water to flush or dispose of urine.
(Ord. O-2015-005 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.50.030 Waterless urinals in new and existing construction.
   All urinals installed in a new building, new additional restroom within an
existing building or replacement of an existing urinal shall be a waterless
urinal. Exemptions to this section may be granted at the discretion of the city
engineer under the following conditions:
   A.   The installation of a waterless urinal would cause an undue burden due
to an incompatibility with the existing plumbing system.
   1.   If the cost to replace or remediate such incompatibility is twenty-five
percent or less of the permitted construction costs, an exemption shall not be
granted.
   B.   When installing a waterless urinal in an existing building, the
installation of a waterless urinal would cause an undue burden due to the
requirement of additional retrofits which may be required for the restroom or
stall to remain compliant with other codes, such as the California Building
Code.
   C.   Other unforeseen circumstances where the financial burden or other
unforeseen burden outweighs the water savings generated by the waterless
urinal.
   D.   The installation of a waterless urinal would cause a threat to public
health and safety. (Ord. O-2015-005 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.50.040 Waterless urinal retrofits.
   All existing urinals within the city shall be retrofitted to waterless
urinals before February 14, 2016. Exemptions to this section may be granted at
the discretion of the city engineer under the following conditions:
   A.   The installation of a waterless urinal would cause an undue burden due
to an incompatibility with the existing plumbing system.
   B.   The installation of a waterless urinal would cause an undue burden due
to the requirement of additional retrofits which may be required for the
restroom or stall to remain compliant with other codes, such as the California
Building Code.
   C.   Other unforeseen circumstances where the financial burden or other
unforeseen burden outweighs the water savings generated by the waterless
urinal.
   D.   The installation of a waterless urinal would cause a threat to public
health and safety.
   E.   Low-flow urinals using one-half gallon of water or less per flush and
installed before July 21, 2015. (Ord. O-2015-005 § 1 (part), 2015)
15.50.050 Faucet aerators.
   A.   All restroom faucets in all publicly accessible restrooms, including
those in hotel rooms, lobbies and restrooms, restaurants, schools, commercial
and retail buildings, public buildings and similar publicly accessible
restrooms shall be retrofitted to install aerators that emit no more than one-
half gallon per minute before October 17, 2015. Exemptions to this section may
be granted at the discretion of the city engineer in the following cases:
   1.   When such a retrofit would cause an undue burden due to design of the
faucet.
   2.   In cases to protect public health and safety.
   B.   Beginning with the effective date of this chapter, all restroom faucets
in new residential construction shall be fitted with aerators that emit no more
than one-half gallon per minute. Exemptions to this section may be granted at
the discretion of the city engineer in the following cases:
   1.   In cases to protect public health and safety. (Ord. O-2015-005 § 1
(part), 2015)
15.50.060 Sub-meters in new construction.
   All new multi-unit buildings, regardless of proposed use, shall be required
to have a separate sub-meter capable of measuring the water use of every usable
unit, separate common space and landscaping that is expected to use at least
twenty-five gallons of water per day on average over the course of a year,
regardless of the overall size of the building. Buildings that have a separate
water meter for each unit are exempt. (Ord. O-2015-005 § 1 (part), 2015)
Title 16 SUBDIVISIONS
Chapter 16.12 GENERAL PROVISIONS
16.12.010 Title.
   This title shall be known as the "Subdivision Standards and Regulations of
the City of Pismo Beach." (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.12.020 Authority.
   The provisions of this title are adopted pursuant to the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act, as set forth in the Government Code, Division 2, Title 7,
commencing with Section 65000 and any subsequent.amendments. Subsequent
amendments to the State Map Act affecting the provisions of this title shall be
enforced by the city on their effective date of state approval until added to
this title. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.12.030 Purpose.
   The purpose of this title and any pertinent rules, regulations and
specifications hereafter adopted is to regulate and control the design and
improvement of land for all purposes within the city in order to preserve and
enhance the health, safety, welfare and amenities of the community. It is
further the purpose of this title to encourage new concepts and innovations in
the arrangement of building sites within subdivisions. Deviations from
standards would include density transfer, optional design standards, and any
new concepts that would result in an improved utilization of the land. (Ord.
299 § 1 (part), 1982)
Chapter 16.16 DEFINITIONS
16.16.010 Scope of definitions.
   The definitions in this chapter apply to the provisions of this title only
and do not affect any other provisions of law. All definitions contained in the
State Subdivision Map Act shall also be included by reference. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.16.020 Commission.
   "Commission" means the planning commission of the city of Pismo Beach and
also the advisory agency referred to in the Subdivision Map Act of the state.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.030 Condominiums, community apartments, and planned developments.
   "Condominium, community apartments, and planned developments" means groups
of privately occupied and owned living areas with intervening common areas in
undivided interest. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.040 Design.
   "Design" means street alignments, grades and widths; drainage and sanitary
facilities and utilities, including alignments and grades thereof; location and
size of all required easements and rights-of-way; fire roads and firebreaks;
lot size and configuration; traffic access; grading; and to be dedicated for
park or recreational purposes; and such other specific requirements in the plan
and configuration of the entire subdivision as may be necessary or convenient
to ensure conformity to or implementation of the general plan/local coastal
program land use plan or specific plans. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.050 Easement.
   "Easement" means an easement dedicated to and accepted by the city of Pismo
Beach or other designated person, public agency, corporation or entity. (Ord.
299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.060 Final map.
   "Final map" means a map prepared in conformity with an approved or
conditionally approved tentative tract map based on field survey, and deemed at
the time of city council approval to be consistent with all general plan/ local
coastal program land use plan and local ordinance requirements at the time of
such approval. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.070 Improvement.
   "Improvement" means such street work and utilities to be installed, or
agreed to be installed, by the subdivider on the land to be used for public or
private streets, highways, ways and easements, as are necessary for the general
use of the land owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood traffic and
drainage needs as a condition precedent to the approval and acceptance of the
final map thereof; "improvement" also means such other specific improvements or
types of improvements, the installation of which, either by the subdivider, by
public agencies, by private utilities, by any other entity approved by the
local agency or by a combination thereof, is necessary or convenient to ensure
conformity to or implementation of the general plan/ local coastal program land
use plan. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.080 Lot.
   "Lot" means a parcel or portion of land established for purposes of sale,
lease, finance, division of interest or separate use, separated from other
lands by description on a final map or parcel map. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.090 Owner.
   "Owner" means the individual, firm, partnership or corporation having
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence
and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.100 Parcel map.
   "Parcel map" means a map prepared in accordance with the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and this title, which map is designed to be placed on
record in accordance with the law. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.110 Subdivider.
   "Subdivider" means a person, firm, corporation, partnership or association
who proposes to divide or causes to be divided real property into a subdivision
for himself or for others except that employees and consultants of such persons
or entities, acting in such capacity, are not
"subdividers". (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.120 Subdivision.
   "Subdivision" means the division by any subdivider of any unit or units of
improved or unimproved land, or any portion thereof, shown on the latest
equalized county assessment roll as a unit or as contiguous units, for the
purpose of sale, lease or financing, whether immediate or future, except for
leases of agricultural land for agricultural purposes. Property shall be
considered contiguous units, even if it is separated by roads, streets, utility
easement or railroad rights-of-way. "Subdivision" includes a condominium
project as defined in Section 1350 of the Civil Code, or a time-share
condominium or a community apartment project as defined in Section 11004 of the
Business and Professions Code, or the conversion of five or more existing
dwelling units to a stock cooperative as defined in Section 11003.2 of the
Business and Professions Code. Any conveyance of land to a governmental agency,
public entity or public utility shall not be considered a division of land for
purposes of computing the number of parcels. As used in this title,
"agricultural purposes" means the cultivation of food or fiber or grazing or
pasturing of livestock. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.130 Subdivision Map Act.
   "Subdivision Map Act" means Title 7, Division 2 of the California Government
Code, Sections 66410 through 66499.35, the primary purpose of which is to
provide a scheme for the control and regulation by local government of the
design and improvement of subdivisions. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.140 Subdivision review committee.
   "Subdivision review committee" means a committee comprised of three members:
one member designated by the planning commission, the community development
director, and the city engineer. This committee is an advisory body to the
planning commission. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.16.150 Tentative map.
   A.   "Tentative map" means a tentative parcel map or a tentative tract map
made for the purpose of showing the design and improvement of a proposed
subdivision and the existing conditions in and around it.
   B.   "Vesting tentative map (VTM)" means a tentative map for a subdivision
as defined in subsection (A) of this section that shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting tentative map" at the time it is
filed. Vesting tentative maps shall be processed in the same manner as other
tentative maps.* (Ord. 86-4, § 1 (part), 1986; Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
* See Chapter 16.27, Vesting Tentative Maps.
Chapter 16.20 CONSIDERATION OF GENERAL PLAN, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, COMMUNITY
FACILITIES AND WAIVER
16.20.010 General plan/local coastal program land use plan and zoning laws.
   The general plan/local coastal program land use plan for the city shall
guide the use of all land within the corporate boundaries of the city. The size
and design of lots, the nature of utilities, the design and improvement of
streets, the type and intensity of land use, and the provisions for any special
facilities in any subdivision shall conform to the land uses shown and the
standards established in the general plan/local coastal program land use plan
and the zoning laws of the city and any specific plans adopted for the area.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.20.020 Environmental impact.
   The environmental impact of the subdivision shall be considered in
accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970, as amended,
the Guidelines for Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act
of 1970 adopted by the Secretary for Resources of the state and the council as
they now exist or may hereafter be amended, in accordance with resolution of
the city council adopted from time to time to implement the provisions of the
Environmental Quality Act. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.20.030 Community facilities.
   Community facilities, such as schools, parks, recreation areas, public
access ways and the like, shall be considered in accordance with the general
plan/local coastal program land use plan standards. The provisions of this
title establish procedures for the referral of proposed subdivision data to
city departments, interested boards, bureaus and other governmental agencies,
and utility companies, both public and private, so that the extension of
community facilities and utilities may be accomplished in an orderly manner and
coordinated with the development of the subdivision. In order to facilitate the
acquisition of land areas required to implement this policy, the city may
require that the subdivider dedicate, grant easements, or otherwise reserve
land and provide moneys or funds for schools, parks, playgrounds,
thoroughfares, public access ways, utility easements and other public purposes,
as specified in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act,
Coastal Act and applicable ordinances of the city of Pismo Beach. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
Chapter 16.22 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
16.22.010 Tentative and final subdivision maps required.
   A tentative and final subdivision map shall be required for all subdivisions
and conversions creating five or more parcels, five or more condominiums or a
community apartment project containing five or more parcels, or for the
conversion of a dwelling project to a stock cooperative containing five or more
dwelling units, except where:
   A.   The land before division contains less than five acres, each parcel
created by the division abuts upon a maintained public street or highway, and
no dedications or improvements are required by council; or
   B.   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of twenty acres or
more and has an approved access to a maintained public street or highway; or
   C.   The land consists of a parcel or parcels of land having approved access
to a public street or highway which comprises part of a tract of land zoned for
industrial or commercial development and which has the approval of the
governing body as to street alignments and widths; or
   D.   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of not less than
40 acres or is not less than a quarter of a quarter section. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.22.020 Parcel maps required.
   A parcel map shall be required for those subdivisions described in
subsections (A)--(D) of Section
16.22.010, and for any subdivisions creating four or fewer parcels, including
subdivisions created by gift deed. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.22.030 Tentative parcel map.
   When a parcel map is required by this title, the community development
director will first require the filing of a tentative parcel map. Said map
shall meet all the requirements for tentative maps provided for by this title.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.22.040 Exclusions.
   The following are excluded from the provisions of Sections
16.22.010 and
16.22.020:
   A.   The financing or leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar
space within apartment buildings, industrial buildings, commercial buildings,
mobilehome parks and trailer parks.
   B.   Mineral, oil or gas leases.
   C.   Land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the Health and Safety Code
of the state.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.22.050 Lot line adjustments.
   The minor alterations or adjustment of lot lines where no new building sites
or additional assessor's parcels are created and minimum required lot areas are
maintained shall not be considered as a subdivision. Such lot line adjustments
must be agreed to in writing by all owners of record and approved by the
subdivision review committee as advisory agency for lot line adjustments only.
(Ord. 01-03 § 1, 2001: Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
Chapter 16.24 GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES
16.24.010 Subdivider.
   The subdivider shall prepare maps consistent with
the standards contained in this title and design public improvements consistent
with public improvement standards of the city. The subdivider shall process
such maps in accordance with the regulations set forth in this title. (Ord. 299
§ 1 (part), 1982)
16.24.020 Community development director.
   The community development director shall be responsible for the analysis of
the tentative map as to design conformity with the general plan and the zoning
laws of the city; and for the analysis of the environmental impact of the
proposed project; and for the expeditious processing of tentative maps and
reports as set forth in this title. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.24.030 City engineer.
   The city engineer shall be responsible for reporting to the planning
department as to the engineering requirements, in the street widths, grades and
alignments; whether the proposed public improvements are consistent with the
standards set forth in this chapter and all applicable city standards
pertaining thereto; the inspection and ultimate approval of all such public
improvements; and the expeditious processing of the final or parcel map as set
forth in this chapter. The city engineer may also grant certificates of
compliance or conditioned certificates of compliance in conformity with the
State subdivision Map Act.
(Ord. O-2008-005, (part), 2008; Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.24.040 Planning commission.
   The planning commission shall be the advisory agency for the city of Pismo
Beach and have the authorization to approve, conditionally approve or deny
tentative tract maps and tentative parcel maps, excepting planned residential
zones, for which the city council shall be the approving body. The planning
commission is charged with making investigations and reports on the design and
improvements of proposed divisions of land, and the imposing of requirements or
conditions thereon.
(Ord. O-2008-005, (part), 2008; Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.24.050 Council.
   The Council shall have final jurisdiction in the approval of final maps and
any appeals filed on tentative maps and the establishment of requirements for
and standards of design of public improvements that may be proposed for
dedication as a result of the subdivision process. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.24.060 Subdivision review committee.
   The subdivision review committee shall act as an advisory body to the
planning commission on tentative parcel maps and tentative tract maps to
establish recommended conditions to approval, adequacy or appropriateness of
maps, etc., in addition to its advisory agency function in lot line adjustments
set forth in Section
16.22.050. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.24.070 Other public agencies.
   Tentative maps shall be referred to all special districts, governmental
boards, bureaus, utility companies and other agencies which provide public and
private facilities and services to the subdivision, and to agencies which the
community development director determines may be affected for their information
and comment prior to planning commission approval. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
Chapter 16.26 TENTATIVE MAPS
16.26.010 Preliminary conferences.
   Prior to the submittal of a tentative map, the subdivider is encouraged to
consult with the staff of the planning department, and other city departments
for technical advice and procedural instructions. Preliminary sketches of the
subdivision may be submitted and discussed. The preliminary sketch shall be to
a scale and detail sufficient to indicate the essential characteristics of the
subdivision, including the number, size and design of lots; the location and
width of streets; the location of any important reservations or easements; the
relation of the subdivision to all surrounding lands; and any other details
necessary to enable a preliminary review. The community development director
may schedule a conference with the subdivider and appropriate city departments
to discuss the preliminary map and make recommendations concerning the
submittal of a tentative map. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.020 Submittal.
   Fifteen copies of the tentative map, a statement of the proposed division of
any land, the information required by the community development director
pertaining to the environmental impact of the proposed project, and appropriate
fees shall be submitted to the planning department. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.030 Form—Size and scale.
   Tentative maps shall be a minimum of eighteen by twenty-six inches in size
and to a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet for large parcels, and to a
minimum scale of one inch equals fifty feet for small areas, unless otherwise
approved by the community development director. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.040 Information required.
   Every tentative map shall be clearly and legibly reproduced and contain the
following information:
   A.   A key or location map on which shall be shown the general area,
including adjacent street property, subdivisions and roads;
   B.   The tract name or number, date, north point, scale and sufficient
description to define the location and boundaries of the proposed tract;
   C.   The name and address of the recorded owner or owners;
   D.   The name and address of the subdivider;
   E.   The name and business address of the person who prepared the map;
   F.   The acreage of the proposed tract to the nearest hundredth of an acre;
   G.   Sufficient elevations or contours or notations indicating the direction
and percent of slope to determine the general slope of the land and the high
and low point thereof;
   H.   The locations, names, widths and grades of all roads, streets, highways
and ways in the proposed subdivision which are to be offered for dedication;
   I.   The locations, names and existing widths of all adjoining and
contiguous highways, streets and ways;
   J.   The locations and size of all pipelines and structures used in
connection therewith;
   K.   the location and character of all existing public utilities;
   L.   The widths, location and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements;
   M.   The lot layout, the dimensions of each lot and the lot numbers;
   N.   The city limit lines occurring within the general vicinity of the
subdivision;
   O.   The bearings and distances to quarter-section bounds within the general
vicinity of the subdivision;
   P.   The boundaries of any phases within the subdivision if the subdivision
is to be recorded in stages;
   Q.   The names of the owners of the land immediately adjacent to the
subdivision;
   R.   The outline of any existing buildings and designation and disposition
of those to remain in place and their locations and height in relation to the
existing or proposed
streets and lot lines, along with the location of any existing wells and/or
septic systems;
   S.   The location and condition of all existing trees and designation of
those proposed to remain in place standing within the boundaries of the
proposed public rights-of-way;
   T.   The location of all areas subject to inundation or storm water overflow
and the location, width and direction of flow of all watercourses; and
   U.   Typical sections of the proposed street improvements, including parkway
walls and other public improvements. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.050 Statements required.
   A statement shall be presented by the subdivider in written form
accompanying the map and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The improvements and public utilities proposed to be made or installed
and the time at which such improvements are proposed to be completed;
   B.   The proposed plan for grading, including compaction of fill, and
drainage;
   C.   The provisions for sewerage and sewage disposal;
   D.   The provisions for the proposed water supply;
   E.   The public areas proposed;
   F.   The type and location of street lighting proposed;
   G.   The proposed building setback lines and the width of side yards;
   H.   The justification and reasons for any exceptions to the provisions of
this chapter for any amendments to the zoning laws which may be requested in
conjunction with the subdivision proposed;
   I.   A copy of any restrictive covenants, bylaws, or articles of
incorporation proposed shall be attached to the owner's statement as required;
   J.   The existing use of the property;
   K.   The proposed use or uses of the property;
   L.   The proposed landscaping plan;
   M.   Geologic drainage, historic bluff retreat, and other reports by
qualified experts as may be necessary to determine consistency with the general
plan/local coastal program land use plan;
   N.   A statement from the owner of record, if different than the subdivider,
consenting to the division of land by subdivision; and
   O.   A statement giving the name and address of the individual designated to
receive all official communications regarding the subdivision.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.060 Acceptance.
   The community development director, or his authorized representative, shall
examine the tentative map and environmental documents upon presentation and
shall not accept such map or environmental documents for distribution unless
the same are in full conformance with this title as to form, date, information
and other matters required to be shown thereon or furnished therewith. (Ord.
299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.070 Fees.
   At the time of the acceptance of a tentative map for distribution, the
subdivider shall pay a processing fee as established by resolution of the
council. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.080 Distribution.
   The community development director shall transmit the requested number of
copies of the tentative map, together with accompanying data, to such public
agencies, utility companies and city departments as may be concerned. Each of
the public agencies, utilities and city departments shall, within twenty days
from the date of transmittal of a copy of a tentative map, or within thirty
days if a draft environmental impact report is required, forward to the
community development director a written report of their findings and
recommendations thereon. If a reply is not received within the time allowed by
this section, it will be assumed that the map conforms to the requirements of
the public agency or utility company concerned. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.090 Filing.
   The tentative map shall not be deemed filed until the written reports
specified in section
16.26.080 have been received by the planning department. The planning
department shall indicate upon the file copy of the tentative map and
accompanying data the date of the filing. The planning commission shall take
action to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the tentative map within
fifty days after the filing thereof, or thirty days after certification of the
final E.I.R., where map was received prior to certification of the E.I.R.,
unless such time is extended by agreement with the subdivider. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.26.100 Subdivision review committee.
   The subdivision review committee shall meet and establish tentative
conditions and review the design of the proposed tentative map. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.26.110 Community development director report.
   The community development director shall prepare a written report on the
conformity of the tentative map to the provisions of the general plan/local
coastal program land use plan, the zoning laws, and all other applicable
requirements of this title and other regulations of the city. Any report or
recommendations on the tentative map shall be served on the subdivider at least
three days prior to any hearing or action on such map by the planning
commission or the council. Such required submission in writing shall be deemed
complied with when such reports and recommendations are placed in the mail,
directed to the subdivider at the address designated in the subdivider's
statement, with postage prepaid. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.120 Public hearing and notice.
   Notice shall be consistent with the Subdivision Map act. The planning
commission shall hold a public hearing on the tentative map and notice thereof
shall be given as follows: notice of the time and place of the public hearing
and a general description of the location of the subdivision shall be posted in
three public places designated by the city council for posting of ordinances,
at least one place to be on the site of the proposed subdivision. Tenant
notification shall be consistent with the Condominium Conversion Ordinance. The
applicant shall also provide the city with stamped envelopes addressed to all
property owners within three hundred feet of the proposed subdivision. Any
interested person may appear at such hearing and shall be heard. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.26.130 Planning commission action—Findings, determinations.
   If the planning commission finds that the proposed map complies with the
requirements of this title, the Subdivision map act, the zoning laws of the
city, and the general plan/local coastal program land use plan, it may approve
or conditionally approve the map. The planning commission shall deny the
approval of a tentative map if it makes any of the following findings:
   A.   That the proposed map is not consistent with applicable policies and
programs of the general plan/local coastal program land use plan and applicable
specific plans;
   B.   That the design and improvements of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with applicable policies and program of the general plan/local
coastal program land use plan and applicable specific plans;
   C.   That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
the development;
   D.   That the site is not physically suitable for the type of development;
   E.   That the design of the subdivision or of the proposed improvements is
likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably
injure fish or wildlife or their habitat;
   F.   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements is
likely to cause serious public health problems;
   G.   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements acquired by the public at large for access through or
use of property within the proposed subdivision.In this connection, the
planning commission may approve a map if it finds that alternate easements, for
access or f or, use, will be provided, and that these will be substantially
equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public.
   The provisions of this subsection shall apply only to easements of record or
to easements established by a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction,
and no authority is granted to a legislative body to determine that the public
at large has acquired easements for access through or use of property within
the proposed subdivision;
   H.   That the discharge of waste from the proposed subdivision into an
existing community sewer system would result in violation of existing
requirements prescribed by a California Regional Water Quality Control Board
pursuant to division 7 (commencing with section 13000) of the water code;
   I.   That the subdivision fronts on public waterway, river or stream,
coastline or shoreline, lake or reservoir, the subdivision does not provide
reasonable public access by fee or easement as specified in Government Code,
Article 3.5, et seq., or the general plan/local coastal program land use plan.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.140 Notice to school district.
   Within ten days of the filing of a tentative map as provided in Section
16.26.090, the community development director shall send notices of the filing
of the tentative map to the governing board of the unified school district(s)
within the boundaries of which the subdivision is proposed to be located. Such
notice shall also contain information about the location of the proposed
subdivision, the number of units, density and any other information which would
be relevant to the affected school district(s). The school district shall issue
a report indicating the impact of the proposed subdivision on the school
district. The report shall be returned to the planning commission within twenty
working days of the date in which the notice was mailed to the school district
for comment; if a reply is not received within the time allowed by this
section, it will be assumed that the map conforms to the requirements of the
school district concerned. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.150 Reports to subdividers.
   The planning commission shall report its action directly to the subdivider
or his designated representative and the owner. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.160 Reports to the council.
   Immediately following action by the planning commission, prior to expiration
of the appeal period, a copy of the planning commission action shall be
transmitted to the council for its information. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.170 Appeals of planning commission action.
   Any aggrieved person, including any member of the planning commission or
city council, may appeal any determination or requirement of the planning
commission in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 16.60 of this title.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.26.180 Expiration of tentative map.
   An approved or conditionally approved tentative map shall expire twenty-four
months after its approval or conditional approval. Extensions may be granted
not to extend a total of four years from the original approval. The expiration
of the approved or conditionally approved tentative map or remaining portions
of phased tentative maps shall terminate all proceedings and no final map or
parcel map of all or any portion of the real property included within such
tentative map shall be filed without first processing a new tentative map.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
Chapter 16.27 VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
16.27.010 Consistency.
   No land shall be subdivided and developed pursuant to a vesting tentative
map for any purpose which is inconsistent with the general plan and any
applicable specific plan or not permitted by the zoning ordinance or other
applicable provisions of the municipal code. (Ord. 86-4, § 2 (part), 1986)
16.27.020 Application.
   A.   This ordinance shall apply only to residential developments.
   B.   1. Whenever a provision of the Subdivision Map Act, as implemented and
supplemented by the City Subdivision Ordinance, requires the filing of a
tentative map or tentative parcel map for a residential development, a vesting
tentative map may instead be filed. A vesting tentative map shall be filed in
the same form and have the same contents accompanying data and reports and
shall be processed in the same manner as set forth in this Chapter for a
tentative map, except that at the time a vesting tentative map is filed it
shall have printed conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map."
   2.   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, policies and standards in effect at the date the city
determines the application to be complete.
   C.   If a subdivider does not seek the rights conferred by the Vesting
Tentative Map Statute, the filing of a vesting tentative map shall not be a
prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision, permit for
construction, or work preparatory to construction. (Ord. 86-4, § 2 (part),
1986)
16.27.030 Filing and processing.
   A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the same form and have the same
contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the same
manner as set forth in the Subdivision Ordinance for a tentative map except as
hereinafter provided:
   A.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed it shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map."
   B.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed a subdivider shall also
supply the information described in Sections
16.26.040, 16.26.050 and/or
16.32.020 of the Subdivision Ordinance. (Ord. 86-4, § 2 (part), 1986)
16.27.040 Expiration.
   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall expire
at the end of the same time period, and shall be subject to the same extensions
established by the Subdivision Ordinance for the expiration of the approval or
conditional approval of a tentative map. (Ord. 86-4, § 2 (part), 1986)
16.27.050 Development rights.
   A.   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, policies and standards described in Government Code
Section 66474.2.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection (A) of this section, a permit, approval,
extension or entitlement may be made conditional or denied if any of the
following are determined:
   1.   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or the
immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or
safety, or both.
   2.   The condition or denial is required, in order to comply with state or
federal law.
   C.   The rights referred to herein shall expire if a final map is not
approved prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided in
Section
16.27.040. If the final map is approved, these rights shall last for the
following periods of time:
   1.   An initial time period of two years. Where several final maps are
recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting tentative
map, this initial time period shall begin for each phase when the final map for
that phase is recorded.
   2.   The initial time period set forth in subsection (C)(1) of this section
shall be automatically extended by any time used for processing a complete
application for a grading permit or for design or architectural review, if such
processing exceeds thirty days, from the date a complete application is filed.
   3.   A subdivider may apply for a one-year extension at any time before the
initial time period set forth in subsection (C)(1) expires. If the extension is
denied by the planning commission, the subdivider may appeal that denial to the
city council within fifteen days.
   4.   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building permit
during the periods of time specified in subsections (C)(1)--(C)(3) of this
section, the rights referred to herein shall continue until the expiration of
that permit, or any extension of that permit. (Ord. 86-4, § 2 (part), 1986)
Chapter 16.28 FINAL MAPS
16.28.010 Filing.
   Within twenty-four months after the approval or conditional approval of the
tentative map, a subdivider may cause his subdivision, or any part thereof, to
be surveyed and a final map thereof prepared in conformance with the tentative
map as approved by the planning commission, including conformance with any
conditions attached to such approval. Extensions of time for the filing of the
final map may be granted by the planning commission for periods not to exceed
one year for each extension provided a written application, with fee, is filed
by the subdivider prior to the expiration date of the tentative map. Extensions
shall not exceed an aggregate of two years from the first twenty-four month
approval period. In granting an extension, new conditions shall be imposed
where necessary for consistency with ordinances and general plan/local coastal
program land use plan requirements at the time of consideration of the time
extensions. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.020 Processing fee.
   The subdivider shall at the time of submitting the final map to the city
engineer, pay to the city processing fees in an amount as established by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.030 Data to accompany final maps.
   Prior to or at the time of submitting the final map of a subdivision to the
city engineer, the subdivider shall submit therewith the following
documentation. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.040 Traverse sheets.
   Calculation and traverse sheets, in a form approved by the city engineer,
give the bearings and distances and coordinates of the boundaries of the
subdivision and the blocks and lots therein shown on the final map. (Ord. 299 §
1 (part), 1982)
16.28.050 Public improvement plans.
   The original tracings of detailed plans, cross sections and profiles as set
forth in this chapter, and of all other improvements proposed to be installed
as required by the provisions of this chapter, and of all other improvements
proposed to be installed by the subdivider, in, on, over or under any street,
right-of-way, easement or parcel of land dedicated by the map or previously
dedicated, including the estimated cost thereof, shall be filed with the city
engineer for his approval and signature. All such plans shall be prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the city engineer. Plan sheets shall be
twenty-four by thirty-six inches, with a one-inch left margin. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.28.060 No-access rights.
   A no-access rights certificate shall be shown on the final map where
required by the city engineer. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.070 Design data.
   Design data assumptions and computations for proper analysis shall be in
accordance with sound engineering practices. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.080 Reports and guarantees of clear title.
   The final map shall be accompanied by a current report prepared by a duly
authorized title company naming the persons whose consent is necessary for the
preparation and recordation of such map and for the dedication of the streets,
alleys and other public places shown on the map and certifying that, as of the
date of the preparation of the report, the persons therein named are all the
persons necessary to give clear title to such subdivision. At the time of
recording such map, following approval by the council, there shall be filed
with the county recorder a guarantee executed by a duly authorized title
company showing that persons (naming them) consenting to the preparation and
recordation of such map and offering for dedication the streets, alleys and
other public places shown thereon are all the persons necessary to pass clear
title to such subdivision and the dedications shown thereon. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.28.090 Agreement and bonds.
   The agreement and bonds are those specified in Section
16.28.300 of this chapter and Chapter 16.36 of this title. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.28.100 Deed restrictions, bylaws, and/or articles of incorporation.
   Two copies of all deed restrictions, bylaws and/or articles of incorporation
shall be submitted. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.110 Final map—Size, material and scale.
   The final map shall be legibly drawn, printed or reproduced by a process
guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester-base
film. Certificates, affidavits and acknowledgements may be legibly printed upon
the map with opaque ink. If ink is used on polyester-base film, the ink surface
shall be coated with a suitable substance to ensure permanent legibility. The
dimensions of each sheet of such map shall be eighteen by twenty-six inches. A
marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet leaving an entirely
blank margin of one inch. The scale of the map shall be sufficient to show all
details clearly and in no case shall be greater than one inch equals one
hundred feet nor less than one inch equals fifty feet. Enough sheets shall be
used to accomplish this end. The number of each sheet and the total number of
sheets comprising the map shall be stated on each of the sheets, and the
relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown by a small key map on
the first sheet. Each sheet of such map proper shall show the date of the
survey, north point, written graphic scale, and other information as necessary.
The map shall be so made and shall be in such condition when filed that good
legible prints and negatives can be made therefrom. Prior to recordation, a
sepia of the final map shall be prepared and shall be filed with the public
works department. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.120 Title.
   The title of each sheet of such final map shall consist of the approved name
and unit number of the tract, if any, at the lower righthand corner of the
sheet, followed by the words "City of Pismo Beach." Maps filed for the purpose
of showing as acreage and previously subdivided shall be conspicuously marked
with the words "Reversion to Acreage." (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.130 Coordinate system.
   Wherever the city engineer has established a system. of coordinates, then
the survey shall be tied into such system. The adjoining corners of all
adjoining lots shall be identified by lot and block numbers, subdivision name
and place of record, or other proper designation. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.140 Subdivision boundaries.
   An accurate and complete boundary survey to second order accuracy shall be
made of the land to be subdivided. A traverse of the exterior boundaries of the
tract, and of each block when computed from field measurements on the ground,
shall close within a limit of one foot to ten thousand feet. The boundary of
the subdivision shall be indicated on the final map by a colored border applied
to the reverse side of the tracing. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.150 Dimensions, bearings, and curve data.
   The final map shall show all the survey and mathematical information and
data necessary to locate all monuments thereon, including bearings and
distances of straight lines and central angles, radii and arc lengths of
curves, and such information as may be necessary to determine the location of
the centers of the curves. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.160 Lots and blocks.
   All lots and blocks and all parcels offered for dedication for any purpose
shall be particularly delineated and designated with all dimensions, boundaries
and courses clearly shown and defined in every case. Parcels offered for
dedication other than for streets and easements shall be designated by letter.
Sufficient linear, angular and curve data shall be shown to determine readily
the bearing and length of the boundary lines of every block, lot and parcel
which is a part thereof. Sheets shall be so arranged that no lot is split
between two or more sheets, and, wherever practicable, lots in their entirety
shall be used for lot dimensions. Lot numbers shall begin with the numeral "1"
and continue consecutively throughout the tract, with no omissions or
duplications. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.170 Streets.
   The map shall show the right-of-way lines of each street, and the width of
any portion being dedicated, and widths of any existing dedications. The widths
and locations of adjacent streets and other public properties within fifty feet
of the subdivision shall be shown. If any street in the subdivision is a
continuation or approximately a continuation of any existing street, the
conformity or the amount of nonconformity of such street to such existing
streets shall be accurately shown. Whenever the centerline of a street has been
established or recorded, the data shall be shown on the final map. (Ord. 299 §
1 (part), 1982)
16.28.180 Building setback lines.
   The map shall show building setback lines on all streets by long, thick dash
lines if such setback lines do not conform with the standards of the zoning
laws of the city, provided a variance has been granted. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part),
1982)
16.28.190 Easements.
   The side lines of all easements, including utility and new access easements,
shall be shown by fine dashed lines. If any easement already of record cannot
be definitely located, a statement of the existence, the nature thereof, and
its recorded reference shall appear on the title sheet. Distances and bearings
on the side lines of lots which are cut by an easement shall be narrowed or be
so shown that the map will indicate clearly the actual lengths of the lot
lines. The widths of all easements, and sufficient ties thereto to definitely
locate the same with respect to the subdivision, shall be shown. All easements
shall be clearly labeled and identified. If an easement shown on the map is
already of record, its recorded reference shall be given. If any easement is
being dedicated by the map, it shall be set out in the owner's certificate of
dedication. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.195 Geologic and drainage.
   Reports shall be submitted for geologic and drainage plans consistent with
the approval of the tentative tract map and general plan/local coastal program
land use plan. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.200 Highwater line.
   The map shall show the line of mean high water with a fine contiguous line
in case the subdivision includes or is adjacent to areas subject to periodic
inundation or other waters, and the use of such areas may be required to be
restricted by a covenant of restrictions. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.210 Monuments.
   The map shall fully and clearly show what stakes, monuments or other
evidence to determine the boundaries of the subdivision were found on the
ground and each adjacent corner of each adjoining subdivision, or portion
thereof, by lot and block numbers, tract name or number and place of record, by
section, municipality and range, or by other proper designation. Any monument
or benchmark, as required by this chapter, that is disturbed or destroyed
before the acceptance of all improvements shall be shown on the final map:
   A.   The location of all monuments placed in making the survey. If any
points were reset by ties, that fact shall be stated;
   B.   Concrete monuments depressed below the street grade with a cast iron
ring and cover of a type approved by the city engineer shall be set at
intersections of street centerline tangents or offsets therefrom, or as
required by the city engineer. The exact location of all such monuments shall
be shown on the final map;
   C.   All lot corners shall be permanently monumented;
   D.   All monuments shall be set prior to the acceptance of the public
improvements by the council. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.220 Certificates, acknowledgements and descriptions.
   The title sheet of the map, below the title, shall show the name of the
engineer or surveyor, together with the date of the survey, the scale of the
map, and the number of sheets. The following certificates, acknowledgements and
descriptions shall appear on the title sheet of the final map, and such
certificates may be combined where appropriate:
   A.   Certificates by parties holding title. A certificate in accordance with
the provisions of Section 66436 of the Subdivision Map Act;
   B.   Dedication certificates. A certificate in accordance with the
provisions of Section 66439 of the Subdivision Map Act;
   C.   Engineer's certificates. A certificate in accordance with the
provisions of Section 66441 of the Subdivision Map Act; and
   D.   Certificates to be executed. Certificates for execution by each of the
following:
   1.   The city engineer,
   2.   The city clerk,
   3.   The community development director, and
   4.   The county recorder. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.230 Description of property.
   A description of all property being subdivided by reference to maps or deeds
of the property shown thereon as shall have been previously recorded or filed
with the final map. Each reference in such description to any tract or
subdivision shall show a complete reference to the book and page or records of
the county. The description shall also include a reference to any vacated areas
with the number of the ordinance vacating the area. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.240 Certificates regarding tax liens.
   Prior to the filing of the final map with the Council, the subdivider shall
file the certificate and documents set forth in Section 66492 of the
Subdivision Map Act, any amendments thereto, relating to taxes and assessments.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.250 Other affidavits, certificates and the like.
   Such other affidavits, certificates, acknowledgements, endorsement and
notarial seals as are required by law and this chapter shall be filed. (Ord.
299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.260 Certificate of insurance.
   The public improvement agreement shall provide for a certificate of
insurance in the terms and amount as approved by the city attorney and naming
the city as additionally insured. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.270 Action by the city engineer.
   Upon the receipt of the final map and other data submitted therewith, the
city engineer shall examine the same to determine that the subdivision as shown
is substantially the same as it appeared on the tentative map, and any approved
alterations thereof, that all the provisions of this title and the Subdivision
Map Act applicable at the time of the approval of the tentative map have been
complied with, and that he is satisfied that the map is technically correct. If
the city engineer determines that the final map is not in full conformity with
the tentative map, he shall advise the subdivider of the changes or additions
that shall be made to make such conformity, and shall afford the subdivider an
opportunity to make such changes or additions. If the city engineer determines
that full conformity therewith has been made, he shall so certify on the map
and shall transmit the map to the city clerk, together with any documents which
may have been filed herewith, for presentation to the council. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.28.290 Approval by the council.
   At its first regular meeting following the filing of the final map with the
city clerk, as set forth in Section
16.28.270 of this section, the council shall consider the map, the plan of the
subdivision and the offers of dedication. If the council determines that the
map is in conformity with the requirements of this title and that it is
satisfied with the plan of the subdivision and has determined that the map is
consistent with all current applicable ordinances and the general plan/local
costal program land use plan, it shall approve the map. At the time the council
approves the final map, it shall also (a) accept, (b) accept subject to
improvement, or (c) reject any offer of dedication. The city clerk shall
certify on the map the action by the council. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.300 Public improvement agreements.
   If, at the time of the approval of the final map by the council, any public
improvements required by the city pursuant to the provisions of this title have
not been completed and accepted in accordance with the city standards
applicable at the time of approval or conditional approval of the tentative
map, the council, as a condition precedent to the approval of the final map,
shall require the subdivider to enter into an agreement with the city, upon
mutually agreeable terms, to thereafter complete such improvements at the
subdivider's expense. Such agreement shall be secured by improvement security
in the amount and form set forth in Chapter 16.36 of this title. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.28.310 Disapproval by the council.
   If the council determines that the final map is not in conformity with the
requirements of this title, it shall disapprove the map, specifying its reason
therefor, and the city clerk shall, in writing, advise the subdivider of such
disapproval and of the reason or reasons for such disapproval. Within thirty
days after the council has disapproved the map, the subdivider may file with
the city engineer a map altered to meet the approval of the council. In such
case, the city engineer shall review the altered map for conformance with the
requirements of the council and shall then submit the altered map to the
council for its approval, along with a certificate that the altered map is
technically correct. No final map shall have any force or effect until it has
been approved by the council, and no offer of dedication shall be accepted
until the county clerk has recorded the map with the county recorder. (Ord. 299
§ 1 (part), 1982)
16.28.320 Recordation.
   When the council shall have approved the final map, as set forth in Section
16.28.290 of this section, the city clerk or a title insurance company
designated by the city clerk shall present the map to the county clerk who
shall record the map with the county recorder. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
Chapter 16.32 PARCEL MAPS
16.32.010 Parcel maps filing.
   Thirteen copies of the parcel map prepared by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor shall be submitted to the community development
director, together with the required fees and data. The parcel maps shall
contain information as requested by the community development director. (Ord.
299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.32.020 Data to accompany parcel maps.
   At the time of filing a parcel map with the city, the surveyor or engineer
shall submit therewith the following data: calculation and traverse sheets, in
a form approved by the city engineer, giving the bearings, dimensions, curve
data and closures for each parcel and total boundary as shown on the parcel
map. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.32.030 Processing and recording fees.
   At the time of filing a parcel map, the subdivider shall pay a processing
fee as established by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part),
1982)
16.32.040 Forms.
   The tentative parcel map shall be prepared in conformance with the
provisions of Section
16.26.040 of this title. The final parcel map shall include the following:
   A.   The engineer's certificate;
   B.   The city engineer's certificate;
   C.   The county recorder's certificate;
   D.   The dedication certificate; and
   E.   The community development director's certificate. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part),
1982)
16.32.050 Recommendation of the subdivision review committee.
   The subdivision review committee shall review the tentative parcel map and
transmit its recommendation to the planning commission. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part),
1982)
16.32.060 Approval by the planning commission.
   At its first regular meeting following the filing of the tentative parcel
map with the community development director, the planning commission shall
consider the map. The planning commission shall deny the approval of the parcel
map if it makes any of the findings in Section
16.26.130 (A)--(I) of this title. The community development director shall
certify on the map the action by the planning commission. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part),
1982)
16.32.070 Public improvement agreements.
   If, at the time of the filing of the parcel map by the subdivider, any
public improvements required by the city pursuant to the provisions of this
title have not been completed and accepted in accordance with the city
standards applicable at that time, the subdivider, as a condition precedent to
the recordation of the parcel map, shall enter into an agreement with the city,
upon mutually agreeable terms, to thereafter complete such improvements at the
subdivider's expense. Such agreement shall be secured by improvement security
in the amount and form set forth in Chapter 16.36 of this title. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.32.080 Action by city engineer.
   Upon the receipt of the final parcel map and other data submitted therewith,
the city engineer shall examine the same to determine that all the provisions
of this title and the Subdivision Map Act have been complied with, and that he
is satisfied that the map is technically correct. If the city engineer
determines that the final parcel map is not in full conformity with the
tentative parcel map, he shall advise the surveyor or engineer of the changes
or additions to be made. If the city engineer determines that full conformity
has been made, he shall so certify on the map. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.32.090 Recordation of the final parcel map.
   After review for consistency with the planning commission decision, the city
engineer and the community development director shall approve the final parcel
map. The city clerk or a title insurance company designated by the city clerk
shall transmit a final parcel map to the county recorder for recordation. (Ord.
299 § 1 (part), 1982)
Chapter 16.36 IMPROVEMENT SECURITY
16.36.010 Improvement security required.
   Whenever this chapter authorizes or requires the furnishing of security in
connection with the performance of any act or agreement, such security shall be
one of the following at the option of, and subject to the approval of the city:
   A.   A bond or bonds by one or more duly authorized corporated sureties;
   B.   A deposit, either with the city or a responsible escrow agent or trust
company, at the option of the city, of money or negotiable bonds of the kind
approved for securing deposits of public moneys; or
   C.   An instrument of credit from one or more financial institutions subject
to regulation by the state or federal government, pledging that the funds
necessary to carry out the act or agreement are on deposit and guaranteed for
payment. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.36.020 Form of security.
   A bond or bonds by one or more duly authorized corporate securities to
secure the faithful performance or for the security of laborers and material
men shall be in substantially the form prescribed by Sections 66499.1 and
66499.2 of the Subdivision Map Act. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.36.030 Amount of security.
   The improvement security shall be in the amounts set forth as follows:
   A.   An amount which equals one hundred percent of the total estimated cost
of the improvement or of the act to be performed, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the act or agreement;
   B.   An additional amount which equals fifty percent of the total estimated
cost of the improvement or performance of the required act, securing payment to
the contractor, his subcontractors and to persons furnishing labor, materials
or equipment to them for the improvement of the performance of the required
act;
   C.   An amount determined by the director of public services necessary for
the guarantee and warranty of the work for a period of one year following the
completion and acceptance thereof against any defective work or labor done or
materials furnished. (Ord. 345 § 1, 1984; Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.36.040 Additional amount required.
   If the improvement security is other than a bond or bonds furnished by duly
authorized corporate surety, an additional amount shall be included as
determined by the City Council as necessary to cover the cost and reasonable
expenses and fees, including reasonable attorney's fees, which may be incurred
by the city in successfully enforcing the obligation secured. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.36.050 Additional alterations coverage.
   The improvement security shall also secure the faithful performance of any
changes or alterations in the work to the extent that such changes or
alterations do not exceed ten percent of the original estimated cost of the
improvement. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.36.060 Special assessment proceedings—Reduction.
   In the event the required subdivision improvements are financed and
installed pursuant to special assessment proceedings, the subdivider may apply
to the city council for a reduction in the amount of the improvement security
required hereunder up to an amount corresponding to the amount of a faithful
performance and labor and material bond required by the special assessment act
being used. The city council may grant such reduction if it finds that such
bonds have been in fact provided and that the obligations secured thereby are
substantially equivalent to that required by this title. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part),
1982)
16.36.070 Release of security.
   The improvement security required hereunder shall be released in the
following manner:
   A.   Security given for faithful performance of any act or agreement shall
be released upon the final completion and acceptance of the act or work subject
to the provisions of subsection B of this section.
   B.   The director of public works may release a portion of the security in
conjunction with the acceptance of the performance of the act or work as it
progresses upon application therefor by the subdivider; provided, however, that
no such release shall be for an amount less than twenty-five percent of the
total improvement security given for faithful performance of the act or work
and that security shall not be reduced to an amount less than fifty percent of
the total improvement security given for faithful performance until final
completion and acceptance of the act or work. In no event shall the director of
public works authorize a release of the improvement security which would reduce
such security to an amount below that required to guarantee the completion of
the act or work and any other obligation imposed by this title, the Subdivision
Map Act or the improvement agreement.
   C.   Security given to secure payment to the contractor, his subcontractors
and to persons furnishing labor, materials or equipment, may, after the
completion and acceptance of the act or work, and after recordation of a notice
of completion or notice of cessation by the original subdivider or developer in
compliance with California Mechanics Lien Law, be reduced to an amount equal to
the amount of all claims therefor filed and of which notice has been given to
the legislative body, plus an amount reasonably determined by the director of
public works to be required to assure the performance of any other obligations
for which the security was given.
   D.   Security given for the guaranty or warranty of work shall be released
upon the expiration of the period for which it is given. The city council shall
have two months after completion of the performance of the obligation to
register its satisfaction or dissatisfaction. If, at the end of that period, it
has not registered its satisfaction or dissatisfaction, it shall be
conclusively deemed that the performance of the obligation was done to its
satisfaction. (Ord. 86-2 § 7, 1986; Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
Chapter 16.40 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
16.40.010 Requirements.
   Except where modified in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
each subdivision and the map thereof shall be in conformity with the standards
set forth or referred to in this title. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.020 Buildable lots.
   All subdivisions shall result in the creation of lots which are developable
and capable of being built upon, based on city ordinances and the general plan/
local coastal program land use plan. No subdivision shall create lots which are
impractical of improvement due to size or shape, location of watercourses or
problems of sewage or driveway grades, or other natural physical conditions. No
lot shall be created which would conflict in any manner with Ordinance 214,
Article IX. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.030 Access to public streets.
   All lots or parcels created by the subdivision of land shall have access to
a public street improved to the standards hereinafter required. The planning
commission may, however, impose a requirement that any dedication or offer of
dedication of a street shall include a waiver of direct access rights,
including ingress and egress, to such street from any property shown on a final
map as abutting thereon, and that if the dedication is accepted, such waiver
shall become effective in accordance with the provisions of the waiver of
direct access. Whenever the planning commission finds a safety hazard would be
created as a result of direct access, it may also require a waiver of direct
access to any existing street already dedicated as a condition of approval.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.040 Lot standards.
   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate to the location
of the proposed subdivision and to the types of developments contemplated. The
following principles and standards shall be observed:
   A.   The minimum area and dimension of all lots shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning laws of the city for the district in which the
subdivision is located, except as otherwise provided in Chapter 16.36.
   B.   The side lines of all lots, so far as possible, shall be at right
angles to the street which the lot faces, or approximately radial to the center
of curvature, if such street is curved. The side lines of lots shall be
approximately radial to the center of the curvature of a cul-de-sac on which
the lot faces.
   C.   No lot shall be divided by a city boundary line nor any boundary
between parcels registered under separate ownership. Each such boundary line
shall be made a lot line.
   D.   Lots having double frontage shall not be approved, except where
necessitated by unusual conditions. The width of each block shall be sufficient
for an ultimate layout of two tiers of lots therein of a size required by the
provisions of this chapter, unless the general layout in the vicinity, lines of
ownership, topographical conditions or locations of major streets or freeways
justify or make necessary a variation from this requirement.
   E.   Lot numbers shall begin with the numeral "1" and shall continue
consecutively through the tract, with no omissions or duplications, and no
block designations shall be used.
   F.   No remnants of property shall be left in the subdivision which do not
conform to the lot requirements or are not required for a private utility or
public purpose. No portion of a subdivision shall be designated as "not a
part." All remnants of property shall be given a lot number.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.060 Streets.
   A.   Conformance. The streets shall conform in principle to the streets
shown on the circulation element of the general plan/local coastal program land
use plan and in width and alignment to the streets shown on any precise plan
adopted by the council relating to streets and shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter. Streets not shown on the general plan/local
coastal program land use plan or a specific plan shall conform to the
requirements of the city and of this chapter.
   B.   Minimum Standards. Where higher standards have not been established as
set forth in subsection A above, all major and minor streets shall be platted
according to the following minimums, except that higher standards may be
required where streets are to serve commercial or industrial property or where
probable traffic conditions warrant.
Type of Street Right-of-Way Width* Curb-to-Curb
Type of Street                Right-of-Way Width* Curb-to-Curb
1. Major arterial with center 100 feet            80 feet
island
2. Major arterial without     84 feet             64 feet
center island
3. Collectors                 60 feet             40 feet
4. Standard Residential       56 feet             36 feet
5. Cul-de-sac (street)        56 feet             36 feet
6. Hillside (10 percent slope As warranted by situation, but not less than 24
or greater)                   feet paved for two-way and no parking
7. Planned residential        As approved by the planning commission
private streets               conditional use permit.
8. Cul-de-sac (turnaround):a. Unobstructed: 40-foot outside radius; 20-foot
inside radius;b. When parking is allowed in bulb perimeter: 48-foot outside
radius; 20-foot inside radius.
* Plus additional easements
for utilities if necessary
(Ord. 87-7 § 1, 1987; Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.070 Street patterns.
   The street patterns in the subdivision shall be in general conformity with a
plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining areas and the entire
neighborhood or district. The following principles shall be observed:
   A.   Where appropriate to the design, the proposed streets shall be
contiguous and in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with
which they are to connect.
   B.   The proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
land to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the planning commission, such
extension is not necessary for the coordination of the subdivision with the
existing layout or the most advantageous future development of adjacent tracts.
A no-access rights certificate shall be shown on the final map where required
by the city engineer.
   C.   Where necessary to give access to or permit a satisfactory subdivision
of adjoining land, streets shall extend to the boundaries of the property, and
the resulting dead-end streets may be approved with a temporary turnaround. A
temporary turnaround may be approved for a period not to exceed two years,
which turnaround may have a radius of forty feet, unobstructed by parked
vehicles. In all other cases, a permanent turnaround shall have a minimum
right-of-way radius of fifty-eight feet and a curb radius of forty-eight feet.
   D.   No cul-de-sac shall exceed five hundred feet in length from the center
of the turnaround to the centerline of the intersecting street.
   E.   The proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right
angles as the conditions and other limiting factors of good design shall
permit.
   F.   Excessively long, straight, standard subdivision streets conducive to
high-speed traffic shall be discouraged.
   G.   The centerlines of all streets, wherever practicable, shall be the
continuation of the centerlines of existing streets, or shall be offset at
least two hundred feet.
(Ord. 87-7 § 2, 1987; Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.080 Street names.
   All street names shall be as approved by the public works and fire
departments and no duplication of street names shall be permitted within the
urban area of the city and the county area contiguous to the city. (Ord. 299 §
1 (part), 1982)
16.40.090 Alleys.
   When lots are proposed for commercial or industrial uses, alleys at least
twenty-four feet in width may be required at the rear thereof. Otherwise,
alleys are to be discouraged. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.100 Grades, curves and sight distances.
   Grades, curves and sight distances shall be subject to the approval of the
city engineer to insure proper drainage and safety for vehicles and
pedestrians. The following principles and minimum standards shall be observed:
   A.   Grades of streets shall not be less than 0.2 percent and the cross fall
across intersections shall not be less than 0.4 percent. Grades shall not
exceed fifteen
percent unless special circumstances warrant a steeper grade.
   B.   Street intersections shall be rounded, with curves having a minimum
radius of fifteen feet at property lines. A greater curve radius may be
required if streets intersect at other than right angles or if the street is
either a collector or arterial street.
   C.   The centerline curve radius on all streets and highways shall conform
to accepted engineering standards of design and shall be subject to approval by
the city engineer. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.110 Curbs, sidewalks and pedestrian ways.
   A.   Curbs and gutters as shown on the city's standard detail drawings shall
be required.
   B.   When required for access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation facilities, other community facilities or for unusually long
blocks, the subdivider shall construct pedestrian ways not less than twelve
feet in width.
   C.   Sidewalks, when required, shall be located within the street right-of-
way as shown on the city's standard detail drawings. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part),
1982)
16.40.120 Utilities and easements.
   A.   Utility easements, not less than eight feet in width, may be required
for utility purposes.
   B.   All utility distribution facilities shall be placed underground, except
as otherwise provided in Chapter 16.48, and located physically per standard
drawing P-4, San Luis Obispo County Standards. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.130 Watercourses.
   The subdivider shall dedicate rights-of-way for storm drainage conformity
substantially with the lines of any natural watercourse that traverses the
subdivision, or at the option of the planning commission, the subdivider shall
provide by dedication further and sufficient easements or construction, or
both, to dispose of such surface and storm water. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.140 Block standards.
   The major dimensions of a block shall not exceed one thousand three hundred
twenty feet in length nor less than four hundred forty feet in length between
street centerlines, unless modified in accordance with the provisions of
Section
16.48.010. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.150 Neighborhood facilities—Reservation of sites.
   The subdivider may be required to reserve sites appropriate in area and
location for necessary and desirable neighborhood facilities, such as schools,
parks, playgrounds, fire stations and other public utilities. School sites
shall be dedicated in accordance with the provisions of Section 66478 of the
Subdivision Map Act. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.160 Conformance to general plan/local coastal program land use plan for
nonresidential subdivisions.
   The street and lot layout of a nonresidential subdivision shall be
appropriate to the land use for which the subdivision is proposed and shall
conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the city's
general plan/local coastal program land use plan and the zoning laws of the
city. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.180 Principles and standards for nonresidential subdivisions.
   In addition to the principles and standards in this chapter which are
appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the subdivider shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission that the street,
parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adopted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
   A.   The proposed industrial and commercial parcels shall be suitable in
area and dimensions to the types of development anticipated.
   B.   The street right-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to the type and
volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereon.
   C.   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and storm drainage.
   D.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisances from proposed nonresidential subdivision, including the
provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or potential
residential development and provisions for permanently landscaped buffer strip
when necessary.
   E.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas or be connected to streets extended for
predominantly residential traffic. (Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.190 Street trees.
   Fifteen-gallon parkway trees of a variety and possessing a root structure
adaptable for use as park trees, of an approved variety, shall be planted sixty
feet on center, nor less than one on each lot, and be located in a manner which
will not obstruct the view for safe pedestrian or vehicle activity, or major
scenic views. Grouping of street trees shall be encouraged. (Ord. 299 § 1
(part), 1982)
16.40.200 Bicycle paths.
   Separate bicycle paths shall be constructed when part of a system designated
in the general plan/local coastal program land use plan or a specific plan.
(Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.40.210 Full compliance.
   No application required pursuant to this title shall be accepted for
processing or approved where the property owner has on the subject property or
any other property owned by the property owner within the city, an existing
land use, not previously authorized by any statute or ordinance, which is being
maintained or operated in violation of any applicable provision of this code,
or any condition of approval of a land use permit under this title. This
provision applies to the operation of land uses only, and does not affect
buildings or structures which do not conform to development standards.
   Where the community development director, at his/her sole discretion, and
whose determination shall be final, determines that the use in question is
consistent with the objectives, goals and policies of the General Plan, or that
the continuation of said use is essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare, this section shall not apply to an application
submitted pursuant to this title. (Ord. O-2016-005 § 1, 2016)
Chapter 16.42 SUBDIVISIONS OF EXISTING MOBILEHOME PARKS
16.42.010 Definition.
   Existing mobilehome parks as used herein shall mean any real property which
in the preceding two years has been used in part or in whole for mobilehome
parks as defined in the California Health and Safety Code, and which has not
subsequently received any approval or entitlement from the city for a new or
different use. (Ord. 276 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.42.020 Tenant protection.
   The city shall not approve the subdivision of any existing mobilehome park
for the continuing usage of mobile or modular homes as residential units unless
the owner of the park gives adequate guarantees and assurances satisfactory to
the city which provide the following minimum tenant protections:
   A.   Except for those lots purchased by current residents under subsection
(B) of this section or vacated voluntarily by existing tenants under subsection
(C) of this section, no lots shall be sold or transferred within the two years
after the recordation of the final subdivision map. The owner shall continue to
operate the mobilehome park as before, with rental increases limited to cost-
of-living adjustments approved by the planning commission, or by the city
council on appeal.
   B.   Residents of the mobilehome park at the time the subdivision
application is filed shall be given a first right of refusal, exercisable for
one year after the recordation of the final map, to purchase the lot upon which
their mobilehome is situated. Reasonable financing arrangements shall be
offered to the resident purchasers, which shall be no more than ten percent
down payment, and no less than fifteen years to pa y the balance. The purchase
price for said residents shall either be: (1) ten percent less than the price
for which comparable lots are or will be offered to the public; or (2) the full
price of any offering to the general public, less the real estate commission
paid on the sale of other lots, and with the purchaser entitled to a rebate if
the city determines within two years that other comparable lots were actually
sold for less than the purported offering price. The owner and the subdivider
shall make their books available to the city when required to make any such
determination.
   C.   The owner shall, during the first two years, offer to all tenants who
move voluntarily, a minimum lump sum payment of one thousand plus the actual
cost of relocating the tenant's mobilehome and appurtenant structures to any
other mobilehome park or reasonably accessible site of the tenant's choice
within two hundred fifty miles of Pismo Beach. The owner may offer additional
amounts to tenants to leave voluntarily provided that such additional amounts
are offered generally to all tenants, and reimbursements made to those who
moved previously without receiving such additional amount.
   D.   Special protections must be provided for the elderly and the physically
handicapped. The owner shall be required to provide annual nonassignable
leases, with automatic renewals for a term of no less than fifteen years, for
all tenants of a mobilehome where at least one tenant was over sixty-five years
of age, or was physically handicapped as determined by the state of California,
at the time of filing the final subdivision map. Throughout the lease term, the
lump sum and moving payments of subsection C of this section shall be offered
to said tenants. In addition, and without any requirement that the owner
reimburse tenants who have moved previously, the owner may offer the tenants
additional amounts to move during the lease term. Nothing herein shall prevent
the original owner after the first two years from selling or transferring any
lot subject to such a lease, provided that the subsequent owner be given notice
of, and agree to abide by, the provisions hereof. Rental increases during the
lease shall be limited to annual cost of living increases.
   E.   In lieu of the provisions of subsection (C) or (D) of this section, the
tenant may at any time sell his mobilehome to the owner upon such terms as they
mutually agree to. (Ord. 276 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.42.030 Planning commission findings.
   Before approving any such subdivision, the planning commission, or the city
council upon appeal, shall also make the findings based upon substantial
evidence presented at a public hearing that there exists sufficient mobilehome
space availability within seven miles of the city of Pismo Beach to accommodate
the mobilehomes to be displaced by reason of the conversion, and that the age,
type and style of mobilehomes within the park proposed for conversion will be
accepted into other parks within said distance. (Ord. 276 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.42.040 Applications.
   Applications shall contain the following items:
   A.   Copies of the plot plan of the park including all existing and proposed
structures, landscaping, walls, parking areas, walkways and other facilities as
prescribed by the community development director.
   B.   Copies of building plans and elevations of existing and proposed
structures.
   C.   Time table for conversion of the park.
   D.   The total number of spaces within the park, the number of spaces
occupied, length of time each space has been occupied, length of time each
space has been occupied by the present tenant, names and addresses of all
existing tenants, monthly rents for each space over previous two years and any
other information deemed necessary by either the community development director
or the planning commission. (Ord. 276 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.42.050 Restrictions on change of land use.
   The city shall not authorize, permit or approve a change of land use for an
existing mobilehome park, or any portion thereof, unless the city is satisfied,
either by use permit or other enforceable requirements or restrictions, that
the minimum tenant protections set forth in Sections
16.42.020 and
16.42.030 have been adequately satisfied and protected. The final decision by
the city on any such use permit or requirement. shall be made by the city
council after a noticed public hearing. (Ord. 276 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.42.060 Notification provisions.
   The provisions for tenant notification as contained in Sections
16.64.050(1) and
16.64.050(2) of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code (pertaining to Condominium
Conversions) shall also apply to mobilehome park conversions insofar as
applicable. (Ord. 276 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.42.070 Penalties for evasion of chapter.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of an existing mobilehome park, or
for any person acting for him or on his behalf, with the intent to evade any
requirement of this chapter, to evict any tenant, or to take any other coercive
action against any tenant. The city shall be deemed to have notice of any such
act, and the statute of limitations for prosecution of any such violation shall
begin to run, upon the date that an application is filed to subdivide or change
the land use for said real property.
   B.   In addition to and completely separate from the foregoing criminal
penalties, the city shall not approve any application for subdivision or change
of land use for an existing mobilehome park if the council finds upon
substantial evidence presented at a public hearing, that any such eviction or
act of coercion was done with the intent to evade the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 276 § 1 (part), 1980)
Chapter 16.46 PAYBACK PROCEDURE FOR THE HANFORD-LEMOORE ASSESSMENT DISTRICT
(#84-AD-01)
16.46.010 Refunds to assessment district.
   A.   Improvements installed pursuant to the Hanford-Lemoore Assessment
District, as summarized below and as more fully described in the final
engineers report for said district (a copy of which is on file in the city
clerk's office) shall be subject to the procedures established in this chapter
unless the city specifically provides otherwise by ordinance or resolution.
These improvements include, but are not limited to:
   1.   Water lines;
   2.   Sewer lines;
   3.   Curbs;
   4.   Gutters;
   5.   Sidewalks;
   6.   Street base and paving;
   7.   Underground utilities;
   8.   Streetlights;
   9.   Roadway markings and signs;
   10.   Facilities appurtenant to the above.
   B.   Any subdivider or developer that proposes to utilize or connect to any
of the facilities installed through the Hanford-Lemoore Assessment District and
that had not participated originally in the assessment district for the
property proposed to utilize or connect to said facilities, shall be obligated
to pay a proportionate share in the original installation of said facilities as
provided for herein. (Ord. 86-9 § 1 (part), 1986)
16.46.020 Request to connect to facilities provided to city engineer.
   Upon completion of the Hanford-Lemoore Assessment District construction
improvements, and at the time a subdivider or developer proposes to proceed
with connection to said facilities, the city engineer shall review such request
and shall determine the applicability of the procedures further defined in this
chapter. Such a determination shall be made prior to the issuance of any
grading and/or building permits for the proposed project. (Ord. 86-9 § 1
(part), 1986)
16.46.030 Proration of costs.
   A.   The city engineer shall prorate the cost of any such original facility
against all lots or parcels to be served by direct connection thereto. Such
proration shall be for the purpose of collecting an equitable contribution from
the "connecting" subdivider or developer, and providing the contribution back
to the original assessment district participants.
   B.   The city engineer shall then inform the subdivider/developer of the
amount to be paid. (Ord. 86-9 § 1 (part), 1986)
16.46.040 Repayment obligation.
   The requirements of this chapter shall remain through the existence of the
assessment district unless otherwise modified by the city council of the city
of Pismo Beach, as parcels or portions thereof connect to such assessment
district facilities. At the time the Hanford-Lemoore Assessment District
indebtedness is complete, reimbursements pursuant to this chapter shall be of
no further force and effect. (Ord. 86-9 § 1 (part), 1986)
16.46.050 City to serve as collection agent.
   The city shall collect the prorated amount for each parcel before permitting
the parcel to connect to the facility. This amount shall be collected prior to
grading permit and/or building permit issuance. Any amounts collected shall be
returned in full to the assessment district as provided for in this chapter and
pursuant to appropriate local and state laws. (Ord. 86-9 § 1 (part), 1986)
16.46.060 No accrued interest.
   No interest shall be paid or accrue on any funds subject to such refund.
Refunds shall be made only if, as, and when connection charges are collected by
the city. (Ord. 86-9 § 1 (part), 1986)
16.46.070 All other city charges in effect.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or applied to affect or reduce
any other city charges. fees, connection or other amounts payable to the city.
(Ord. 86-9 § 1 (part), 1986)
16.46.080 City connections.
   The city may make connections to said water or sewer facilities to serve
public facilities without any obligation to pay any such refunds. (Ord. 86-9 §
1 (part), 1986)
16.46.090 Applicability.
   The payback procedures established by this chapter shall not be applicable
to common water system improvements which are:
   a.   Identified in the PRC Toups report dated April 15, 1982; and
   b.   Reimbursed under the fee credit procedure, all as authorized under the
procedures of Resolution No. R-85-23. (Ord. 86-9 § 1 (part), 1986)
Chapter 16.47 FEES AND PAYBACK PROCEDURES FOR THE SOUTH PALISADES PLANNING AREA
16.47.010 Payment for specific plan.
   A subdivider or developer shall pay to the city, prior to city council
approval of a final map or prior to issuance of building permits, whichever
occurs first, an amount equal to forty-three dollars and three cents times the
maximum number of units permitted on the site, to help defray the cost of
preparing the South Palisades Specific Plan. The city shall forward said amount
to Mr. Stu Baker, of Bayridge Engineering, or his successor in interest. It
shall be the responsibility of Mr. Baker or his successor in interest to
provide the finance department with a current mailing address. The city shall
have no obligation other than to mail one letter to the latest name and address
provided by Mr. Baker or his successor in interest. The provisions of this
section shall expire on December 31, 2001. (Ord. 86-14 § 1 (part), 1986)
16.47.020 Fees for certain public improvements.
   A.   The city estimates that it will cost approximately three hundred forty-
five thousand seven hundred fifty dollars to construct the following:
   Stairways to the beach (two at $100,000 each) $200,000.00 Pay phone
installation (two at $2,000 each) 4,000.00 Widening of Shell Beach Road (2,120
lineal feet of frontage × 10 ft. width × $1.25 sq. ft.) 26,500.00 SUBTOTAL
$230,500.00
   Inflation and contingencies (at 50% of estimate) 115,250.00 TOTAL
$345,750.00
   B.   A subdivider or developer shall pay prior to recordation of a final map
or issuance of building permits, whichever occurs first, to the city an amount
equal to one thousand four hundred forty dollars and sixty-three cents times
the maximum number of units permitted on the site to help defray the cost of
the above-listed public improvements.
   C.   At such time as sufficient funds are collected, or as otherwise deemed
necessary, the city shall construct said improvements either independently or
along with the adjoining development. (Ord. 86-14 § 2, 1986)
16.47.030 No accrued interest.
   No interest shall be paid or accrue on any funds subject to such refund.
Refunds shall be made only if, after all public facilities are installed,
excess funds have been collected. (Ord. 86-14 § 3, 1986)
Chapter 16.48 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
16.48.010 Minimum requirements.
   The subdivider shall improve, or agree to improve, all streets, pedestrian
ways or easements, and public utilities in the subdivision and adjacent thereto
required to serve the subdivision. No permanent improvement work shall be
commenced until improvement plans and profiles have been approved by the city
engineer and a subdivision agreement contract has been concluded between the
subdivider and the city. Improvements shall be installed to permanent line and
grade, and to the satisfaction of the city engineer, and in accordance with the
standard specifications on file in the office of the city engineer. The minimum
improvement which the subdivider shall make, or agree to make at the cost of
the subdivider, prior to the acceptance and approval of the final subdivision
map or parcel map by the city, shall be as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 299
§ 1 (part), 1982)
16.48.020 Grading, curbs, gutters, paving and drainage.
   Grading, curbs and gutters, paving and the drainage structures necessary for
the proper use and drainage of the streets, adjacent property and pedestrian
ways and for the public safety shall be provided. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.030 Streets and pedestrian ways.
   All streets and pedestrian ways shall be improved to the widths and grades
shown on the improvement plans and profiles signed by the city engineer and
approved by the council as established by law. The subdivider shall improve the
extensions of all subdivision streets and pedestrian ways to the intercepting
paving line of any county road, city street or state highway. (Ord. 299 § 1,
1982)
16.48.040 Sidewalks.
   Sidewalks shall be installed as shown on the
improvement plans and profiles signed by the city engineer. (Ord. 299 § 1,
1982)
16.48.050 Sewer facilities.
   Sanitary sewer facilities connecting with the existing city sewer system
shall be installed to serve the subdivision with a separate private lateral for
each lot and to the grades and sizes shown on the plans signed by the city
engineer. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.060 Storm water drains.
   Storm water drains shall be installed as shown on the improvement plans
signed by the city engineer. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.065 Fire flow.
   All new residential subdivisions and new commercial and industrial
development shall have adequate fire protection provided by gravity flow tanks
and lines with a minimum fire flow of one thousand five hundred g.p.m. and
residual pressure of twenty p.s.i. Commercial and industrial properties will be
required to provide fire flows consistent with the I.S.O. recommendations and
shall be approved by the fire chief. (Ord. 87-7 § 3, 1987)
16.48.070 Water mains.
   Any new or replacement water mains shall be a minimum of eight inches in
diameter. (Ord. 85-11 § 1, 1985; Ord. 299 § 1 (part), 1982)
16.48.075 Fire hydrants.
   Any new, replacement or relocated fire hydrants shall meet the following
standards:
   A.   All hydrants shall have one four-and-one-half-inch connection and two
two-and-one-half-inch connections.
   B.   Hydrants shall be located no more than three hundred feet apart in
commercial areas.
   C.   Hydrants shall be located no more than four hundred feet apart in
residential areas.
   D.   All hydrants shall be located in the range of eighteen to twenty-four
inches on center from curb face.
   E.   Exceptions to the above standards which are dictated by the physical
limitations of a particular site may be approved by the city engineer and the
fire chief. (Ord. 85-11 § 2, 1985)
16.48.080 Street name signs.
   Street name signs shall be provided and placed as required by the city
engineer. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.090 Monuments.
   Durable metal monuments, consisting of iron pipe approved by the city
engineer shall be installed or referenced to the following locations:
   A.   Boundary corners;
   B.   Intervals of not more than five hundred feet along boundary lines;
   C.   At the beginning or ending of property line curves and property
intersections at the discretion of the city engineer; and
   D.   At lot corners and, in addition, a permanent marker shall be set in the
top of the curb on the prolongation of the side lot lines.
   Standard monuments shall be placed along the center lines of public streets
and alleys at all intersections and at all property intersections or beginning
and ending curves. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.100 Barricades and traffic safety.
   Permanent barricades and traffic-safety devices shall be placed as required
by the city engineer. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.110 Street lighting facilities.
   Street lighting facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
recommendations of the city engineer. Lighting shall be adequate to permit
property policing of the subdivision. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.120 Underground utility facilities.
   A.   All new utility facilities and existing utilities where feasible
(including but not limited to electric, communication and cable television
lines) extended to and installed within any new subdivision shall be placed
underground. The installation of the facilities of privately owned utility
companies shall be made in accordance with the utilities' rules and regulations
on file with the Public Utilities Commission of the state. Exempt from this
requirement is equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as
surface-mounted transformers, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes and meter
cabinets and concealed ducts.
   B.   The subdivider shall be responsible for complying with the requirements
of this section and shall make the necessary arrangements with the utility
companies involved for the installation of such facilities.
   C.   Public rights-of-way and easements where utilities are to be placed
underground shall be graded to within six inches of the final grade prior to
the installation of these utilities.
   D.   The grade of curbs shall be determined and staked before utilities are
installed underground.
   E.   New utility design shall be reviewed and approved by the utility
companies prior to final approval by the city engineer. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.130 Underground utilities—Generally.
   All underground utilities, sanitary sewers and storm drains installed in
streets or alleys shall be constructed prior to the surfacing of such streets
or alleys. The connection for all underground utilities and sanitary sewers
shall be laid to such lengths as will obviate the necessity for disturbing the
street or alley improvements when service connections thereto are made. (Ord.
299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.140 Underground utility crossings—Dry conduit.
   Where necessary, dry conduit shall be installed for future underground
utility crossings. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.150 Completion.
   A complete set of improvements plans "as built" shall be filed with the city
engineer upon the completion of the improvements required by the provisions of
this chapter. Such "as built" plans shall be drawn on copies of the original
tracings and be certified as to accuracy and completeness by the subdivider's
licensed contractor or engineer. Upon the receipt and acceptance of such "as
built" plans, the city engineer shall recommend to the council the formal
acceptance of the improvements to the city. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.160 Utility fees.
   The subdivider shall be required to pay all the regular extension fees and
connection fees for the extension and connection to water lines, sewer lines
and storm drain facilities. Such fees shall be made payable prior to the filing
of the final map, except in such cases where the building density is not
determined, in which case the sewer and water connection fees may be deferred
by the council upon the recommendation of the city engineer until an
application for a building permit is filed. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.170 Supplemental improvements—Reimbursement agreements.
   The subdivider may be required to install improvements for the benefit of
the subdivision which may contain supplemental size, capacity or number for the
benefit of property not within the subdivision as a condition precedent to the
approval of a subdivision map and thereafter to dedicate such improvements to
the public. However, the subdivider shall be reimbursed for that portion of the
cost of such improvements equal to the difference between the amount it would
have cost the subdivider to install such improvements to serve the subdivision
only the actual cost of such improvements pursuant to the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act.* (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.180 Supplemental improvements—Reimbursement agreement funding procedures.
   No charge, area of benefit or local benefit district shall be established
unless and until a public hearing in accordance with the provisions of section
16.26.110 is held thereon by the city council and the city council finds that
the fee or charge and the area of benefit or local benefit district is
reasonably related to the cost of such supplemental improvements and the actual
ultimate beneficiaries thereof. In addition to the notice required by Section
16.26.110 of this title, written notice of the hearing shall be given to the
subdivider and to those who own property within the proposed area of benefit as
shown on the latest equalized assessment roll, and the potential users of the
supplemental improvements insofar as they can be ascertained at the time. Such
notices shall be mailed by the city clerk at least ten days prior to the date
established for hearing.* (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.48.190 Inspection fees for improvements.
   A schedule of fees for inspections and plan checks on tract and parcel maps
shall be adopted by the city council by resolution. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
* See also Ch. 16.49, Water and Sewer Improvement Payback Procedures.
Chapter 16.49 WATER AND SEWER IMPROVEMENT PAYBACK PROCEDURES
16.49.010 Refunds to subdividers.
   Whenever a subdivider, or other developer, is required as a condition of
development to pay for and install any sewer or water main or similar facility
which is to be dedicated to the city, and which has the future potential and
capacity to provide water or sewer service for real property parcels not under
the control or ownership of the subdivider, the procedures established in this
chapter shall apply unless the city specifically provides otherwise by
ordinance or resolution. (Ord. 332 § 1 (part), 1984)
16.49.020 Costs provided to city engineer.
   Upon completion of any such water or sewer facility the subdivider may,
within ninety days after city acceptance of such facility, submit to the city
engineer a certified statement showing the actual cost thereof. The engineer
shall review such statement and any and all other books and records of the
subdivider, and of the contractor for the subdivider, as necessary to satisfy
the engineer that the costs are accurate and reflect actual expenditures by the
subdivider. The subdivider and contractor shall cooperate with the engineer in
his review of the costs. (Ord. 332 § 1 (part), 1984)
16.49.030 Proration of costs.
   The city engineer shall prorate the cost of any such facility against all
lots or parcels which in the future may be served by direct connection thereto.
He shall send written notice of the prorated amount to the person shown on the
latest county assessor's roll as the owner or agent of record for assessment
purposes for each parcel. Such person may protest such prorations within sixty
days after the notice is mailed. If not protested within said sixty days, the
proration shall become final for the purposes of this section. (Ord. 332 § 1
(part), 1984)
16.49.040 Fifteen-year repayment obligation.
   For a period of fifteen years from the date of official acceptance of any
such facility, the subdivider shall be eligible for a refund of the foregoing
prorated amount for each parcel as said parcel, or portion thereof, connects to
the facility. (Ord. 332 § 1 (part), 1984)
16.49.050 City to serve as collection agent.
   The city shall collect the prorated amount for each parcel before permitting
the parcel to connect to the facility. The city shall forward said amount to
the current address in the city engineer's office for the original subdivider
or his successor in interest. It shall be the duty of the subdivider to keep a
current address on file, and the city shall have no obligation other than to
mail one letter to the latest name and address provided by the original
subdivider and/or his successor in interest. (Ord. 332 § 1 (part), 1984)
16.49.060 No accrued interest.
   No interest shall be paid or accrue on any funds subject to such refund.
Refunds shall be made only if, as, and when connection charges are collected by
the city and shall be subject to setoffs for any amounts then owed to the city
by the subdivider or owner. (Ord. 332 § 1 (part), 1984)
16.49.070 All other city water and sewer charges in effect.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or applied to affect or reduce
any other city charges, fees, connection or other amounts payable to the city
for water or sewer service. (Ord. 332 § 1 (part), 1984)
16.49.080 City connections.
   A.   The city may make connections to said water or sewer facilities to
serve public facilities without any obligation to pay any such refunds.
   B.   The city may also make or permit connections to said facilities to
serve private property outside of the area of proration as determined by the
engineer; provided, however, that the city council reserves the right to
determine at that time whether or not the owners of such private property shall
be obligated to pay any such refunds. (Ord. 332 § 1 (part) 1984)
16.49.090 Applicability.
   The payback procedures established by this chapter shall not be applicable
to common water system improvements which are:
   A.   Identified in the PRC Toups report dated April 15, 1982; and
   B.   Reimbursed under the fee credit procedure, all as authorized under the
procedures of Resolution No. 1812. (Ord. 332 § 1 (part), 1984)
Chapter 16.50 SOILS AND GEOLOGIC REPORTS
16.50.010 Soils reports.
   A preliminary soils report, prepared by a civil engineer registered in this
state and based upon adequate test borings and a geologic report prepared by a
registered engineering geologist shall be submitted to the city engineer for
every subdivision. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.50.020 Waiver of soils report.
   The preliminary soils report may be waived by the city engineer providing
the city engineer finds that due to the knowledge the city has as to the soils
qualities of the soils in the subdivision, no preliminary analysis is
necessary. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.50.030 Mitigation.
   If the city has knowledge of, or the preliminary soils report indicates the
presence of critically expansive soils or other soils problems which, if not
corrected, would lead to structural defects, a soils investigation of each lot
in the subdivision shall be required by the City Engineer. Such soils
investigation shall be done by a civil engineer registered in this state who
shall recommend the corrective action which is likely to prevent structural
damage to each structure proposed to be constructed in the area where such
soils problem exists. The planning commission may approve the subdivision or
portion thereof where such soils problems exist if it determines that the
recommended action is likely to prevent structural damage to each structure to
be constructed and a condition to the issuance of any building permit may
require that the approved recommended action be incorporated in the
construction,of each structure. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.50.040 Contents.
   The geologic report shall contain all of the information required in the
general plan/local coastal program land use plan. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
Chapter 16.52 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND GRADING AND EROSION CONTROL
16.52.010 Environmental impact.
   No parcel or tentative map filed pursuant to the provisions of this title
shall be approved until an environmental impact analysis is prepared, processed
and considered in accordance with the provisions of the E.I.R. process adopted
by resolution of the city council. The subdivider shall provide such additional
data and information and deposit and pay such fees as may be required for the
preparation and processing of environmental review documents. (Ord. 299 § 1,
1982)
16.52.020 Grading and erosion control.
   Every map approved pursuant to this title shall be conditioned on compliance
with the requirements for grading and erosion control, including the prevention
of sedimentation or damage to off-site property and wildlife habitats set forth
in the general plan/local coastal program land use plan and erosion control
plan adopted by the city. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
Chapter 16.54 EXCEPTIONS
16.54.010 Exceptions to chapter provisions.
   Wherever the land involved in any subdivision is of such size or shape, or
is subject to such title limitations of record, or is affected by such
topographical location or conditions, or is to be devoted to such use that it
is impossible, impractical or undesirable in a particular case for the
subdivider fully to conform to the regulations contained in this chapter, the
planning commission may permit the exception thereof as may be reasonably
necessary if such modifications are in conformity with the spirit and purpose
of the subdivision map act and of this chapter. An application with fees for
any such exception shall be made by a petition of the subdivider stating fully
the grounds of the application and the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
Such petition shall be filed with or after the acceptance of the tentative map
of the subdivision. In order for the property referred to in the petition to
come within the provisions of this section, it shall be necessary that the
planning commission shall find all of the following facts with respect thereto:
   A.   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property, such as topography, fixed rights-of-way, unique
location of easements, etc.;
   B.   That, because of the unique nature of a particular subdivision concept,
design innovations are proposed which meet the functional standards of the
zoning and subdivision regulations without strict adherence to the requirements
of this chapter;
   C.   That the exception will not be detrimental to the public welfare or
safety or be injurious to other property in the territory in which such
property is situated. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.54.020 Referral of proposed exceptions.
   Each proposed exception shall be referred to the officer of the department
under whose jurisdiction the regulation comes, and such officer or department
shall transmit to the Planning Commission his or its written recommendation,
which recommendation shall be reviewed prior to the recommending of any
exception. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.54.030 Planning commission to conform substantially with objectives of
regulations.
   In approving or conditionally approving such exception the planning
commission shall secure substantially the objectives of the regulations to
which the exceptions are granted as to light, air and public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare. Any action taken with reference to such
requested exception shall be subject to approval by any interested person in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 299 § 1,
1982)
Chapter 16.56 CONDOMINIUMS, COMMUNITY APARTMENTS AND PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
16.56.010 Planning commission authority.
   In the case of condominium subdivisions and community apartment
subdivisions, and planned developments, the planning commission may approve or
conditionally approve such subdivisions provided the findings in Sections
16.56.020 through
16.56.040 are made. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.56.020 Standards.
   Adequate light and air space; vehicular and pedestrian access; utilities,
including but not limited to water, sewer, electrical power, gas and storm
drainage; public services, such as fire protection, police protection and solid
waste disposal; recreational facilities; landscaping; and such other factors as
the city may deem appropriate, be provided to insure the development of the
improvements necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.56.030 Legal maintenance.
   A legal entity pursuant to the laws of the state will be established for the
control and maintenance of all land and improvements to be held in common. Such
legal entity shall possess the authority to make sufficient assessments and be
responsible for the maintenance of all facilities and shall be self-sustaining.
(Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.56.040 Approval not to detriment the public welfare.
   The granting of such subdivision shall not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which such property
is situated. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
Chapter 16.58 COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
16.58.010 Coastal development permit approval.
   Subdividers must meet the requirements as set forth by the California
Coastal Act of 1976 and the Public Resources Code, Section 30106 prior to the
filing of a final parcel map or final tract map as required by this title. A
coastal development permit shall be obtained for subdivisions and parcel maps
for projects occurring within the coastal zone prior to approval of any final
tract or parcel maps. Such permits shall comply with the regulations
established in the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
Chapter 16.60 APPEALS
16.60.010 Notices of appeals.
   Appeals may be made from any decision or determination or requirement of the
planning commission or the city engineer by any person aggrieved by filing a
notice thereof in writing with the city clerk within ten working days after
such decision or determination or requirement is made. Such notice shall set
forth in detail the action and grounds upon which his appeal is based. (Ord.
299 § 1, 1982)
16.60.020 Report of the city clerk to the planning commission and city
engineer.
   The city clerk shall report the filing of such notice to the planning
commission and the city engineer. A written report shall be submitted to the
council by one whose decision, determination or requirement is being appealed
not later than the date set for hearing such appeal. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
16.60.030 Action on appeals.
   Upon the filing of an appeal, the council shall set the matter for a
hearing. Such hearing shall be held within thirty days after the date of filing
the appeal. Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the council shall, within ten
days, declare its findings based upon the testimony and documents before it.
The council may overrule or modify the decision, determination or requirement
appealed from and enter any such orders as are in harmony with the spirit and
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
Chapter 16.62 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS
16.62.010 Issuance.
   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building,
structure or other work on any parcel proposed to be created until a parcel map
or final map has been approved and recorded in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and of Title 7, Division 2, Chapter 3, Article 6, beginning at
Section 66464 of the Government Code of the state, and recorded in the office
of the county recorder. (Ord. 299 § 1, 1982)
Chapter 16.64 CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION REQUIREMENTS
16.64.010 Definitions.
   1.   "Community apartments" means similar to the definition of a condominium
except that the purchaser receives an exclusive occupancy to a particular unit
instead of a separate ownership of the airspace.
   2.   "Condominium" means a group of privately owned dwellings in which an
owner normally owns an undivided interest, as a co-owner with other owners, in
the underlying property and in common areas and separate interest in the air
space in which the unit is located.
   3.   "Conversion project" means an existing apartment house, apartment
hotel, motel, multiple dwelling or group dwelling proposed for conversion to a
condominium, stock cooperative or community apartment project through approval
of a tract or parcel map.
   4.   "Stock cooperative" means a corporation which is formed or availed of
primarily for the purpose of holding title to, either in fee simple or for a
term of years, improved real property, if all or substantially all of the
shareholders of such corporation receive a right of exclusive occupancy in a
portion of the real property, title to which is held by the corporation, which
right of occupancy is transferable only concurrently with the transfer of a
share or shares of stock or membership certification in the corporation held by
the person having such right of occupancy. The term "stock cooperative" does
not include a limited equity housing cooperative. (Ord. 270 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.64.020 Purpose.
   The purpose of these provisions is to promote greater individual choice in
type, quality, price and location of housing; to provide for the housing needs
of all segments of the population; to provide increased home ownership
opportunities for all segments of the population; to mitigate the hardship
caused by displacement of tenants, particularly those in low to moderate cost
housing and those who are elderly, families with minor dependent children, the
handicapped and the disabled; to promote the safety of conversion projects and
correction of Building Code violations in such projects; to provide adequate
off-street parking; to encourage construction of new rental units to replace
units lost due to conversions; and to generally regulate projects in accordance
with applicable general and specific plans and with the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 270 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.64.030 Applicability.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to all tentative maps and
preliminary parcel maps as to which the planning commission has not rendered a
decision on the date this section becomes effective. The provisions of any
amendment to this section shall only apply to all tentative maps and
preliminary parcel maps as to which the planning commission has not rendered a
decision on the date the amendment becomes effective, except as otherwise
expressly stated in this section. For purposes of this subsection, a decision
is rendered on the date of the planning commission's public hearing and
announced decision or, where no such decision is announced, the date of mailing
of the planning commission's letter of decision and findings to the applicant.
(Ord. 270 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.64.040 Application requirements.
   A.   A conversion project shall comply with the Subdivision Ordinance, the
provisions of this section and other applicable state laws and local
ordinances. Applications shall be accepted only from persons who have owned the
fee interest in said property for at least two years.
   B.   In addition to the information required by other applicable sections of
this code, the following information shall be submitted at the time of filing:
   1.   Building plans or other documents containing the following information
pertaining to the project as proposed, certified as to accuracy by a licensed
engineer:
   a.   Description of the features of the type of building and project,
including age, type of construction, number of dwelling units, number of
habitable rooms per dwelling unit, and
   b.   Site plan, including buildings, structures, yards, open spaces, and
accessory storage areas and buildings including trash storage areas; and
   2.   Parking plan, including the total number of spaces actually provided
and the total number required if different from that actually provided;
dimensions of stalls, aisles and driveways; locations of columns, walls and
other obstructions; total number of covered and uncovered parking spaces and
location and number of guest parking spaces;
   3.   Tenant information: name and address of each tenant, total number of
project occupants; rent schedule for eighteen months preceding the application
and relocation assistance plan, if any;
   4.   Sales information: anticipated range of sales prices of individual
dwelling units or shares based on information known at the time of application;
anticipated terms of sale to existing tenants; and statements as to whether
sales will be permitted to families with minor children;
   5.   Floor and elevation plans, including indication of common and private
areas, and required exits.
   C.   The following additional information may be required by the planning
commission as a condition of approval:
   1.   Current building inspection reports. (If any such report has already
been submitted to the California Department of Real Estate, a copy of such
report shall be furnished to the city);
   2.   Building component reports indicating condition and estimated remaining
useful life of the roof, foundation, plumbing, electrical, heating, air
conditioning, other mechanical and structural systems, prepared by a registered
civil or structural engineer, licensed general building contractor, licensed
general engineering contractor or architect;
   3.   Structural pest control report, prepared by a licensed pest control
contractor;
   4.   Acoustical report, indicating (a) the type of construction between
dwelling units and the general sound attenuation characteristics of such
construction, or indicating the level of sound attenuation between dwelling
units, and (b) the feasibility of various levels of improvement, prepared by a
licensed acoustical engineer; and
   5.   Utility metering reports, if the units of the building are not
individually metered, indicating the feasibility of individual or submetering,
prepared by qualified engineers;
   6.   Any other information, including conditions, covenants and
restrictions, articles of incorporation and bylaws, which the planning
commission deems necessary to determine if the proposed project is consistent
with the purposes of the municipal code. All such C.C. & R's shall refer to the
tenant rights contained in this section.
   D.   No application for tentative map or preliminary parcel map approval of
a conversion project shall be accepted without adequate evidence from the
applicant that each tenant of the project has received notice of the
application and notice of the relocation assistance provisions of subsection
(G) of this section. Any person who becomes a tenant of a conversion project
after the date of such application shall be given written notice of the
pendency of such applications prior to entering into any written or oral rental
agreement. This subsection shall only apply to map applications filed after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. (Ord. 270 § 1 (part),
1980)
16.64.050 Tenant notification.
   A.   Notification of Hearing on Tentative Map or Preliminary Parcel Map.
   1.   In addition to other notification requirements of the municipal code,
the Department of Community Development shall give notice of any public hearing
on a tentative map or preliminary parcel to at least one tenant in each
dwelling unit of such building or buildings proposed for conversion.
   2.   Such notice shall be in writing and mailed not less than fifteen days
prior to the public hearing on the tentative map or preliminary parcel map.
Such notice may include a questionnaire, to be completed at the option of each
tenant, regarding the approximate ages and disabilities or handicaps, if any,
of the household members, comments concerning the physical condition of the
building and its various components and characteristics.
   B.   Notification of Proposed Conversion Prior to Termination of Tenancy Due
to the Conversion. Each tenant of a conversion project shall be given one
hundred twenty days' written notice of intention to convert prior to
termination of tenancy due to the conversion or proposed conversion. Each
person who becomes a tenant of a conversion project after the date of such one
hundred twenty days' notice shall be given a copy thereof before entering into
any written or oral rental agreement, but shall not be entitled to one hundred
twenty days' written notice prior to termination of tenancy due to the
conversion or proposed conversion.
   C.   Notification of an Exclusive Right to Purchase.
   1.   The applicant shall give each tenant of the proposed conversion project
written notice of an exclusive right to contract for the purchase of the
dwelling unit occupied by the tenant or purchase of a share in the corporation
entitling the shareholder to enjoy exclusive occupancy of the unit upon the
same or more favorable terms and conditions than those on which such unit or
share will be initially offered to the general public. The right shall run for
a period of not less than sixty days from the date of issuance of the
subdivision public report pursuant to Section 11018.2 of the California
Business and Professions Code, unless the applicant receives prior written
notice of the tenant's intention not to exercise the right. The developer shall
provide the city with a copy of each such offer for city evaluation of
financial impact of conversions on tenants.
   2.   Where two or more units are combined pursuant to conditions of
tentative map or preliminary parcel map approval, the notice required by
subsection (C) of this section shall be given to the tenants of the combined
units, and priority among tenants shall be determined in an equitable manner. A
tenant who is prevented from purchasing his unit due to combination of units
shall be given a right of first refusal with respect to the comparable unit in
the same conversion project, to the extent possible. (Ord. 270 §1 (part), 1980)
16.64.060 Tentative map and preliminary parcel map approval.
   A.   All tentative maps and preliminary parcel maps filed in connection with
conversion projects shall be subject to the Subdivision Ordinance, except as
herein otherwise provided. All such maps shall be subject to the general plan/
local coastal program land use plan and any applicable specific plan only to
the extent that such plan contains a definite statement of policies and
objectives explicitly applicable to conversion projects, except as otherwise
provided in this subsection.
   B.   The planning commission shall disapprove a tentative map or preliminary
parcel map for a conversion project if it finds:
   1.   That the map is not substantially consistent with the applicable
density provisions of the general plan/local coastal program land use plan or
specific plans in effect at the time the original building permit was issued;
   2.   The application for map approval is filed less than five years from the
date the original certificate of occupancy for the building was issued; and
   3.   The number of condominium units is less than eight.
   C.   The planning commission shall disapprove a tentative map or preliminary
parcel map for a conversion project if it finds that any applicable general
plan or specific plan provision contains a definite statement of policies and
objectives explicitly applicable to conversion projects and the proposed map is
not substantially consistent with such provision.
   D.   The planning commission shall disapprove a tentative map or preliminary
parcel map for a conversion project if it finds that there are uncorrected
violations of the building code, and that an adequate plan to correct such
violations has not been developed or accomplished.
   E.   The planning commission shall disapprove a tentative map or preliminary
parcel map for a conversion project if it finds that (1) the building is of
unreinforced masonry construction; or (2) the building is more than three
stories in height without an elevator. This provision may be waived where the
planning commission finds that any such condition has been corrected in
conformity with current Building Code Standards.
   F.   After considering the following criteria, the planning commission can
disapprove a tentative map or preliminary parcel map for a conversion project
if it finds that the cumulative effect on the rental housing market in the
planning area of successive conversion projects (past, present and future) is
significant. A finding of significant cumulative effect shall be based on the
following factors:
   1.   The number of tenants who desire to purchase a unit in the building;
   2.   The number of units in the building;
   3.   The number of units which would be eliminated in case conversion
occurred in order to satisfy municipal code parking requirements;
   4.   The adequacy of the relocation assistance plan proposed by the
subdivider; and
   5.   Any other factors pertinent to the determination. (Ord. 270 § 1 (part),
1980)
16.64.070 Relocation assistance.
   A.   Requirement. The planning commission shall require, as a condition of
map approval, that the applicant execute and record a covenant and agreement,
in a form satisfactory to the planning commission, binding the applicant and
any successor in interest to provide relocation assistance in a manner
consistent with this section. The covenant and agreement shall be executed and
recorded within ten days after the expiration of the appeal period for
tentative map approval and a copy provided to each tenant within five days of
recordation. The covenant and agreement shall run to the benefit of any
eligible tenant as defined in subsection (B) of this section, and shall be
enforceable by any such tenant or by the city.
   B.   Eligible Tenant. As used in this section, the term "eligible tenant"
means any tenant who was a resident of the property both on the date of
approval of such map and who does not intend to purchase a unit in the
conversion project.
   C.   Special Protection. An eligible tenant is entitled to "special
protection," as defined in this section if the tenant satisfies any of the
following criteria: over the age of sixty-two; handicapped, as defined in
Section 50072 of the California Health and Safety Code; disabled, as defined in
Section 223 of the United States Social Security Act; or residing with one or
more minor dependent children.
   D.   Assistance. The covenant and agreement shall provide that the applicant
will assist each eligible tenant in finding a comparable replacement rental
unit.
   E.   Rental Subsidy. Where the rent for a unit into which an eligible tenant
moves is higher than the rent for the unit the tenant occupied in the
conversion project, the subdivider shall agree to pay the difference for a
period of one year from the date of relocation. In case of a tenant who
qualifies for "special protection," as defined in subsection (C) of this
section, two hundred dollars shall apply to this subsidy. In all other cases,
the subdivider shall not be required to pay more than one hundred dollars per
month per unit pursuant to this provision.
   F.   Continued Tenancy Pending Relocation; Eviction; Review Procedure.
   1.   Until each eligible tenant is successfully located pursuant to the
provisions of this subsection. the tenant shall be permitted to reside in the
unit presently occupied in the conversion project. The subdivider is not
required to consent to continued tenancy beyond twelve months from the date of
tentative map or preliminary parcel map approval or the date on which the one-
hundred-twenty-day notice of intent to convert is given to all tenants,
whichever date is later.
   2.   An eligible tenant may be evicted, notwithstanding subsection (F)(1) of
this section, for the following reasons only:
   a.   The tenant has failed to pay the rent to which the landlord is
entitled.
   b.   The tenant has violated an obligation or covenant of the tenancy other
than the obligation to surrender possession upon proper notice and has failed
to cure such violation after having received written notice thereof from the
landlord.
   c.   The tenant is committing or permitting to exist a nuisance in or is
causing damage to, the rental unit or to the appurtenances thereof, or to the
common areas of the property containing the rental unit, or is creating an
unreasonable interference with the comfort, safety or enjoyment of any of the
other residents of the same or any adjacent building.
   d.   The tenant is using or permitting a rental unit to be used for any
illegal purpose.
   e.   The tenant who had a written lease or rental agreement which terminated
on or after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, has
refused, after written request or demand by the landlord, to execute a written
extension or renewal thereof for a further term of like duration with similar
provisions and in such terms as are not inconsistent with or violative of any
provision of this subsection.
   f.   The tenant has refused the landlord reasonable access to the unit for
the purpose of making repairs or improvements, or for the purpose of inspection
as permitted or required by the lease or by law, or for the purpose of showing
the rental unit to any prospective purchaser or mortgagee.
   g.   The person in possession of the rental unit at the end of the lease
term is a subtenant not approved by the landlord.
   G.   The applicant shall pay the tenants a fee of five hundred dollars for
relocation and up to five hundred dollars for actual moving costs.
   H.   Dispute Resolution. The covenant and agreement provided for herein
shall establish an expeditious mechanism to resolve any disputes among tenants,
the applicant and the city concerning the interpretation or application of the
covenant and agreement. (Ord. 270 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.64.080 Parking.
   A.   The required number of resident parking spaces per dwelling shall be
two, as required by the Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   The minimum number of guest parking spaces shall be one-quarter space
per dwelling unit for projects containing eight to fifty units and one half-
space per dwelling unit for projects containing more than fifty units. The
planning commission may modify the guest parking requirement up to and
including one-half space per unit where it finds such modification consistent
with the purposes of this section.
   C.   The planning commission may require up to one of the required resident
parking spaces per dwelling unit to be provided in a private garage or carport
where it finds that such is reasonable and feasible and consistent with the
purposes of this section.
   D.   Where the number of parking spaces required by other provisions of this
code in existence on the date of map application exceeds the minimum numbers
established by this section, the number of parking spaces shall not be
diminished.
   E.   The design and improvement of parking facilities and areas shall
substantially conform to the provisions of Section 17.108 of the Zoning
Ordinance. (Ord. 270 § 1 (part), 1980)
16.64.090 Building reports.
   The planning commission may require, as a condition of approval, that the
applicant notify each tenant or other person who communicates an interest in
purchasing a unit or share that the following reports are available for
inspection during normal business hours, and shall take all reasonable steps to
assure that such reports fully, fairly and accurately describe the conditions
reported:
   1.   Any report submitted pursuant to Section
16.64.040;
   2.   A report concerning compliance with the sound transmission control
standards established by the Uniform Building Code;
   3.   A report concerning compliance with the residential energy conservation
standards established by Article 1, Part 6, Title 24 of the California
Administrative Code;
   4.   Report concerning compliance with the elevator safety standards
established by Title 8 of the California Administrative Code. (Ord. 270 § 1
(part), 1980)
16.64.100 Rental housing production fee.
   A.   As a condition of tentative map or preliminary parcel map approval, the
planning commission shall require that the applicant or his successor in
interest pay to the city a fee of five hundred dollars for each unit in the
conversion project, based on the number of units in the project prior to
conversion. This fee shall be paid prior to approval of the final map by the
city council;
   B.   All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited and held
in a rental housing production fund of the city of Pismo Beach, which fund is
established to be administered separately from all other money expended by the
city. Money in this account shall be used exclusively for the development or
improvement, as defined in state guidelines, of low and moderate income housing
in the city;
   C.   New Subdivisions; Tenants; Notice. Each tenant of property approved for
subdivision by approval of a Tentative Map or Preliminary Parcel Map or
recordation of final map or parcel map shall be notified that the property has
been so approved within thirty days of approval. The owner of property approved
for subdivision shall also give such notice to any prospective tenant of the
property before entering into any written or oral rental agreement with such
prospective tenant. This section may be enforced through Tentative Map or
Preliminary Parcel Map condition or a covenant running with the land and shall
apply to all subdivisions for which tentative map approval is granted on or
after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. (Ord. 270 §
1 (part), 1980)
Chapter 16.70 PARK AND RECREATIONAL LAND REQUIREMENTS
16.70.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the State
Subdivision Map Act, Section 66477 of the Government Code. The park and
recreational facilities for which dedication of land and/or payment of a fee is
required by this chapter are in accordance with the parks, recreation and
access element of the Pismo Beach general plan/local coastal plan, adopted by
the city on November 24, 1992. (Ord. 94-02 § 2 (part), 1994)
16.70.020 Requirements and exceptions.
   A.   Requirements. As a condition of approval of a tentative subdivision
tract map or parcel map, the subdivider shall be required to dedicate land, pay
a fee in lieu thereof, or both, for park or recreational purposes according to
the standards and procedures contained in this chapter. For purposes of this
chapter, "subdivision" is defined to include all divisions of land or airspace,
for residential purposes, which require city approval of a tentative parcel or
tract map.
   B.   Exceptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
   1.   Commercial or industrial subdivisions;
   2.   Condominium or stock cooperative conversion projects which consist of
the subdivision of airspace in an existing apartment building which is more
than five years old when no new dwelling units are added; and
   3.   Subdivisions containing less than five parcels and not used for
residential purposes; provided, however, that a condition may be placed on the
approval of such parcel map that if a building permit is requested for
construction of a residential structure or structures on one or more of the
parcels within four years, the fee may be required to be paid by the owner of
each such parcel as a condition to the issuance of such permit. (Ord. 94-02 § 2
(part), 1994)
16.70.030 General standard.
   It is found and determined that the public interest, convenience, health,
welfare and safety require that four acres of land for each one thousand
persons residing within this city be devoted to local park and recreational
purposes. (Ord. 94-02 § 2 (part), 1994)
16.70.040 Standards and formula for dedication of land.
   If a subdivision of more than fifty lots or units is proposed within a one-
half-mile distance of a site designated for a future park or recreational
facility by the parks, recreation and access element, and the park site is
needed to serve the future needs of the residents of the subdivision, the
subdivider shall dedicate land for a local park sufficient in size and
topography to serve the residents of the subdivision. The amount of land to be
dedicated shall be determined based on the following:
   A.   The number of residential units proposed on the property at the time
the tentative map is filed with the city for approval;
   B.   The average number of persons per residential dwelling unit, as
determined by the 2000 Federal Census, which shall be as follows: 2.26 per
detached or attached single-family dwelling, 1.81 per multiple-family dwelling,
and 1.44 per mobilehome;
   C.   The land to be dedicated shall be four acres per one thousand persons
or .00904 acres per detached or attached single-family dwelling, .00724 acres
per multiple-family dwelling and .00576 acres per mobilehome;
   D.   The formula for determining the amount of acres to be dedicated for
each type of unit or lot shall be as follows:
 
No. of lots ×Average No. of ×Acres required/ person = Acres to be dedicated
              persons/unit
 
(Ord. 04-09 § 1, 2004: Ord. 94-02 § 2 (part), 1994)
16.70.050 Formula for fees in lieu of land dedication.
   A.   Applicability. Payment of a fee in lieu of dedication of land shall be
required if either of the following pertains:
   1.   If there is no park or recreational facility site designated within a
one-half-mile radius of the proposed subdivision by the parks, recreation and
access element, the subdivider shall, in lieu of dedicating land, pay a fee
equal to the value of the land prescribed for dedication in Section
16.70.040. The amount of the required fee shall be determined in accordance
with the provisions of this section, such fee to be used for a local park which
will serve the residents of the area being subdivided.
   2.   If the proposed subdivision contains fifty or fewer parcels or units,
the subdivider shall pay a fee equal to the land value of the portion of the
local park required to serve the needs of the residents of the proposed
subdivision as prescribed in Section
16.70.040 and in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   B.   Formula for Calculation of Fee. The fee shall be the citywide average
fair market value of the land that would be dedicated pursuant to the formula
set forth in this section. The average value per acre shall be seven hundred
thousand dollars per acre. The formula for determining the amounts of fees
required in lieu of land dedication for each type of unit or lot shall be as
follows:
 
No. of dwelling units ×Park acreage/ ×$700,000.00/ acre = Fee in lieu of land
                        dwelling unit                       dedication
 
   The total fee amount required for a project shall be the sum of the fee
amounts computed separately for each type of unit or lot within the
subdivision.
   Unless other action is taken by the city council, the citywide average fair
market value of the land that would be dedicated pursuant to the formula set
forth in this section will automatically be adjusted effective January 1st of
each year by the percent change over twelve months in the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics Consumer Price Index for the Los Angeles urban area for the month of
October prior to January 1st. (Ord. 04-09 § 2, 2004: Ord. 94-02 § 2 (part),
1994)
16.70.060 Criteria for requiring both dedication and fee.
   In subdivisions of over fifty parcels, when a lesser land area is needed for
a new or existing local park site than would otherwise be required to be
dedicated and therefore does not meet the full requirement, the subdivider
shall both dedicate land and pay a fee in lieu thereof. The amount of the fee
shall equal the value of the land which would otherwise have been required to
be dedicated pursuant to Section
16.70.040. (Ord. 94-02 § 2 (part), 1994)
16.70.070 Credit for private open space.
   Where private open space for park and recreational purposes is provided
under common ownership in a proposed subdivision and such space is to be owned
and maintained by the future residents of the subdivision, partial credit, not
to exceed forty percent, may be given against the requirement of land
dedication or payment of fees in lieu thereof. Such partial credit may be
provided only if the planning commission, on recommendation of the parks and
recreation commission, finds that it is in the public interest to do so and
that all the following standards are met:
   A.   That the yards, court areas, setbacks and other open areas required to
be maintained by the provisions of Title 17 (zoning) shall not be included in
the computation of such private open space;
   B.   That the private ownership and maintenance of the open space is
adequately provided for by recorded agreement, covenants or restrictions;
   C.   That the use of the private open space is permanently restricted for
park and recreational purposes by recorded covenants, which run with the land
in favor of the existing and future owners of the property and which cannot be
modified or extinguished without the written consent of the city;
   D.   That the proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable for use
for park and recreational purposes taking into consideration such factors as
size, shape, topography, geology, access and location of the private open space
land;
   E.   That facilities proposed for the open space are in substantial
accordance with the provisions for the parks, recreation and access element of
the general plan;
   F.   That the quality of recreation improvements is of critical importance
and all elements shall meet or exceed city standards for materials, design and
workmanship; and
   G.   That the open space for which credit is given is a minimum of three
acres of landscaped space and contains two or more of the following facilities:
   1.   Picnic facilities,
   2.   Children's play apparatus area,
   3.   Game courts (basketball, volleyball, tennis, etc.),
   4.   Recreation activity building,
   5.   Community gardens.
   Before credit is given, the planning commission and/or city council shall
make written findings that the above standards are met. (Ord. 94-02 § 2 (part),
1994)
16.70.080 Procedures.
   A.   Determination as to Dedication, Payment of Fee or a Combination
Thereof. The procedure for determining whether the developer is to dedicate
land, pay a fee, construct improvements to the park site or a combination of
these shall be as follows:
   1.   Request by the Developer. At the time of submitting a tentative map
application, the subdivider shall indicate whether the application proposes to
dedicate land for park and recreational purposes, pay a fee in lieu thereof,
dedicate land and construct park improvements, or a combination thereof. If
dedication of land is proposed, the land area proposed to be dedicated shall be
shown on the tentative map or development plan.
   2.   Recommendations Prior to Planning Commission Action. Prior to public
hearing and action by the planning commission, the tentative map application
and developer's proposal shall be referred to the parks and recreation
commission for its report and recommendations. If dedication of land is
proposed, the developer's proposal shall also be referred to the city council
for its review and acknowledgement of the suitability of the site for
dedication.
   3.   Determination by the City. At the time of approval of the tentative map
application, the planning commission or city council, upon the advice of the
parks and recreation commission, shall determine, as a part of the conditions
of such approval, whether to require the dedication of land or the payment of a
fee in lieu thereof, or both. If a developer has proposed to dedicate land and
construct park and recreational improvements to the dedicated land, the city
may choose to accept said dedicated land and improvements as a part of the
conditions of such approval. The land area required to be dedicated shall be
depicted on the tentative map prior to its approval. The determination of the
planning commission shall be final unless appealed to the city council or
unless the council has final decision-making authority.
   4.   Credit for Dedicated Land and Construction of Improvements on Dedicated
Land. If the city determines to accept a proposal to dedicate land and
construct park and recreational improvements to the dedicated land, the value
of the improvements together with any equipment located thereon shall be a
credit against the payment of fees or dedication of land required.
   B.   Prerequisites for Acceptance of Final Tract or Parcel Maps. Where
dedication of land is required, it shall be shown on the final map submitted to
the city in a form approved by the community development director and public
works director. The dedication shall be accomplished in accordance with the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and this chapter and such land shall be
conveyed to the city concurrent with the recordation of the final map. Where
fees are required, they shall be deposited with the city prior to the
acceptance by the city council of the final map. If it is determined that the
owner is to dedicate land and construct park improvements, any required in-lieu
fees may be credited based on the estimated costs of the improvements.
   C.   Open Space Covenants for Private Park or Recreational Facilities. Where
credit is to be given for private open space and recreation facilities, open
space covenants shall be submitted to the city, in a form approved by the city
attorney and community development director, prior to city council approval of
the final or parcel map. Such covenants and restrictions shall be recorded
before or concurrently with the final tract or parcel map. (Ord. 94-03 § 1,
1994: Ord. 94-02 § 2 (part), 1994)
16.70.090 Use of land and fees.
   A.   Establishment of Separate Restricted Account. The revenues raised by
payment of the in-lieu fee pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited in a
separate account. These funds and the interest thereon shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of providing park and recreational facilities
reasonably related to serving the residents of the subdivisions for which the
fees are paid.
   B.   Use of In-Lieu Funds. The funds shall be used for purchase of land for
park or recreation purposes or if the city council, upon recommendation of the
parks and recreation commission, deems that sufficient park lands are
available, for improving such land for park and recreational purposes. Such
parklands and improvements shall be limited to those described in the most
current versions of the parks, recreation and access element of the Pismo Beach
general plan, Pismo Beach parks master plan, or the city's five-year capital
improvements program. Such funds may be used to reimburse other city funds for
payments advanced for uses permitted by this chapter.
   C.   Refund of Fees. Any fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be
committed to appropriate uses within five years after the payment of such fees
or within five years after issuance of building permits on one-half of the lots
created by the subdivision, whichever occurs later. Any fees not committed
shall be reimbursed according to the procedure set forth in Government Code
Section 66477. (Ord. 94-02 § 2 (part), 1994)
Chapter 16.72 TIME-SHARE USES
16.72.010 Definitions.
   A.   "Hotel" shall have the same meaning as in Section
3.20.020.
   B.   "Time-share uses," as used in this chapter and elsewhere in this code,
shall mean and include each and all of the time-share project, estate, and use
definitions set forth in California Business and Professions Code Section
11003.5, as it may be amended or renumbered from time to time. (Ord. 86-17 § 2
(part), 1986)
16.72.020 Prohibition.
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to construct for
time-share use, to convert to time-share use, to offer to another for time-
share use, or to occupy as a time-share use any portion of any hotel or
residential structure or facility. This section shall apply whether or not the
type of development, or number of units involved, constitutes a subdivision.
   B.   Subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to any time-share use
for hotel or residential facilities irrevocably committed to a time-share use
by documents recorded prior to the adoption of Urgency Ordinance 86-3. (Ord.
86-17 § 2 (part), 1986)
Title 17 ZONING ORDINANCE (1983 CODE)*
Note:
   * Effective date: December 1983.
Chapter 17.003 GENERAL
17.003.010 Objectives of the zoning ordinance.
   The zoning ordinance is adopted to protect and promote the public health,
morals, safety, peace, comfort, convenience, prosperity and general welfare of
the citizens of the city of Pismo Beach. More specifically, the zoning
ordinance is adopted to achieve the following objectives:
   A.   To provide a precise guide for the physical development of the city and
to achieve the progressive arrangement of land uses as depicted in the general
plan/local coastal program land use plan;
   B.   To foster a harmonious, convenient, workable relationship among land
uses;
   C.   To ensure that public and private lands ultimately are used for the
purposes which are most appropriate and most beneficial for the city as a
whole;
   D.   To facilitate the appropriate location of community facilities;
   E.   To minimize congestion by promoting a safe, effective traffic
circulation system and to foster the provision of adequate off-street parking
and loading facilities;
   F.   To provide for adequate light, air, privacy and open space;
   G.   To protect residential and commercial properties from noise, odor,
dust, dirt, smoke, vibration, heat, glare, and other objectionable influences,
and from fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards;
   H.   To preserve the natural beauty and quality of the city's site as well
as other desirable environmental features.
   I.   To protect public views from scenic highways;
   J.   To ensure the implementation of goals, policies, programs and land use
designations certified in the city's local coastal program land use plan
including the maximum protection and provision of public access and
recreational opportunities along the coast;
17.003.020 Adoption and title of the zoning ordinance.
   There is hereby adopted a zoning ordinance and a zoning map for the city of
Pismo Beach, State of California, as provided by Title Seven of the Government
Code of the State of California. This ordinance shall be known as "The city of
Pismo Beach zoning ordinance". (See Chapter 17.127, Amendments for procedures
to amend both the coastal zone and non-coastal zone sections of this
ordinance).
17.003.050 Changes in the boundaries of a district.
   Changes shall be made by ordinance in the manner provided in Chapter 17.127
hereof, said ordinance describing the area to be changed either by lot and
block number, or by metes and bounds. After adoption of any ordinance changing
any boundaries of any district, the city clerk shall mark the aforementioned
map to show the number and date of the adoption of the ordinance making such
change. Said zoning map shall show the changes made in district boundaries
after its adoption.
Chapter 17.006 DEFINITIONS
17.006.0005 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this ordinance, certain terms are hereby defined. The
words "shall" and "will" are mandatory; the words "should" and "may" are
discretionary.
17.006.0010 Access.
   The place, or way, which pedestrians and/or vehicles shall have safe,
adequate and usable ingress and egress to a property or use is required by this
ordinance.
17.006.0015 Accessory.
   A use, customarily incidental to a building, part of a building or
structure, which is subordinate to and the use of which is incidental to and
detached from the main building, structure, or use on the same lot. If an
accessory building is attached to the main building, either by a common wall,
or if the roof of the accessory building is a continuation of the roof of the
main building, such accessory building shall be considered a part of the main
building.
17.006.0017 Accessory dwelling unit.
   An attached or detached dwelling unit which provides complete independent
living facilities for one or more persons. It shall include permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation on the same
parcel as the primary unit. (Ord. O-2018-010 § 2 (part), 2018)
17.006.0020 Accessory structures.
   A building, part of a building, or structure which is attached from the main
building and the use of which is incidental to that of the main building, such
as but not limited to detached garages, detached decks, storage buildings; and
gazebos.
17.006.0025 Acoustical engineering report.
   An official or formal statement of facts, giving an account of, or
disseminating information as to how the design, construction or operation a
development will result in the production, control, transmission and the
effects of sound.
17.006.0030 Acre.
   An area of land equaling forty-three thousand five hundred sixty square
feet.
17.006.0035 Active solar system.
   A system using a mechanical device, such as pumps or fans for energy in
addition to solar energy to transport a conductive medium (such as air or
fluid) between solar collector and the interior of a building for the purpose
of heating or cooling.
17.006.0037 Adult arcade.
   A business establishment to which the public is permitted or invited and
where coin, card or slug operated, or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled devices, still or motion picture machines, projectors,
videos, holograms, virtual reality devices or other image-producing devices are
maintained to show images on a regular or substantial basis, where the images
so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas. Such devices shall be referred to as adult arcade devices. (Ord. 05-02 §
1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0039 Adult booth/individual viewing area.
   A partitioned or partially enclosed portion of an adult business used for
any of the following purposes:
   A.   Where a live or taped performance is presented or viewed, where the
performances and/or images are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis
on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas;
   B.   Where adult arcade devices are located. (Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A
(part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0040 Adult businesses.
   Any business establishment or concern that:
   A.   As a regular and substantial course of conduct operates as an adult
bookstore, adult hotel or motel, adult motion picture arcade, adult motion
picture theater, cabaret, sexual encounter center, adult modeling studio, or
any other business or establishment that offers its patrons services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or
relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas," but
not including those uses or activities, the regulation of which is preempted by
state law; or
   B.   As a regular and substantial course of conduct offers, sells or
distributes adult-oriented material or sexually-oriented merchandise, or that
offers to its patrons materials, products, merchandise, services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas but not
including those uses or activities which are preempted by state law. (Ord. O-
2019-006 § 1; 2019: Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att.
A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0041 Adult cabaret.
   A business establishment (whether or not serving alcoholic beverages) that
features adult live entertainment. (Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord.
04-10 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0042 Adult hotel/motel.
   A hotel or motel, as defined in this code, that is used for presenting on a
regular and substantial basis images through closed circuit television, cable
television, still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos, holograms,
virtual reality devices or other image producing devices that are distinguished
or characterized by the emphasis on matter depicting or describing or relating
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. (Ord. 05-02 § 1
(Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0043 Adult live entertainment.
   Any physical human body activity, whether performed or engaged in alone or
with other persons, including but not limited to singing, walking, speaking,
dancing, acting, posing, simulating, wrestling or pantomiming, in which:
   A.   The performer (including but not limited to a topless and/or bottomless
dancer, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers or similar performers) exposes
to public view, without opaque covering, specified anatomical areas; and/or
   B.   The performance or physical human body activity depicts, describes or
relates to specified sexual activities, whether or not the specified anatomical
areas are covered. (Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att.
A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0044 Adult modeling studio.
   A business establishment which provides for any form of consideration, the
services of a live human model, who, for the purposes of sexual stimulation of
patrons, displays specified anatomical areas to be observed, sketched,
photographed, filmed, painted, sculpted or otherwise depicted by persons paying
for such consideration. Adult modeling studio does not include schools
maintained pursuant to standards set by the Board of Education of the State of
California. (Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att. A
(part)), 2004)
17.006.0045 Adult motion picture theater.
   A business establishment, with or without a stage or proscenium, where, on a
regular and substantial basis and for any form of consideration, material is
presented through films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, laser disks,
holograms, virtual reality devices or similar electronically generated
reproductions that is/are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. (Ord. 05-02 § 1
(Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0046 Adult oriented material.
   Accessories, paraphernalia, books, magazines, laser disks, compact discs,
digital video disks, photographs, prints, drawings, paintings, motion pictures,
pamphlets, videos, slides, tapes, holograms or electronically generated images
or devices, including computer software, or any combination thereof that is
distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical. Adult
oriented material shall include sexually oriented merchandise. (Ord. 05-02 § 1
(Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0047 Adult retail store.
   A business establishment having adult oriented material as a regular and
substantial portion of its stock in trade. (Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)),
2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0048 Aggrieved person.
   Any person who, in person or through a representative appeared at a public
hearing of the local government, in conjunction with a decision or action
appealed or who, by other appropriate means prior to a hearing, informed the
local government of the nature of his concerns or who for good cause was unable
to do either.
17.006.0050 Agriculture.
   Tilling of soil, horticulture, floriculture, raising crops, livestock,
farming, dairying, animal husbandry including, all uses customarily accessory
and incidental thereto.
17.006.0055 Alley.
   A public or private way, other than a street or highway, permanently
reserved as a secondary means of vehicle access to the rear or side or
properties otherwise abutting the street.
17.006.0060 Amendment.
   Any change to the land use map, zoning ordinance or zoning map.
17.006.0063 Amusement hall.
   Any business location with three or more mechanical amusement devices
licensed under the business license regulations of the city of Pismo Beach
Municipal Code.
17.006.0065 Animal hospital.
   Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care, observation
or treatment of dogs, cats or other household pets.
17.006.0070 Apartment.
   A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is arranged;
designed or used as a single housekeeping unit and has kitchen facilities,
temporarily or permanently installed.
17.006.0075 Apartment house or multiple dwelling unit.
   A building, or a portion of a building, deigned or used for occupancy by
four or more families, living independently of each other and containing four
or more dwelling units, as defined in Chapter 17.009.
17.006.0080 Apiary.
   A place for keeping bees.
17.006.0090 Appurtenant.
   Belonging to; accessory or incidental to; adjunct, applied or annexed to.
17.006.0095 Archaeological record.
   Documented evidence of material remains (such as fossil relics, artifacts,
and monuments) of ancient human life and activities.
17.006.0100 Archaeologically or historically sensitive areas.
   Those areas designated by the general plan/local coastal program land use
plan which have, or may have significant historical, archaeological or cultural
importance of unique scientific or educational value.
17.006.0110 Art and craft show.
   Exhibition and/or sale of art and craft items including only the following:
   A.   Fine Arts. An "artist" who practices an occupation in which creation,
conception and execution is governed by imagination and taste; i.e.:
   1.   Paintings--all media;
   2.   Drawings--all media;
   3.   Graphics--all media, and
   4.   Sculptures--all media.
   B.   Crafts. An "artisan" who practices an occupation in which manual skills
are required; i.e.:
   1.   Photography;
   2.   Metalcraft;
   3.   Woodcraft;
   4.   Leathercraft;
   5.   Shellcraft;
   6.   Needlecraft;
   7.   Candlemaking;
   8.   Jewelrymaking;
   9.   Enameling;
   10.   Stained glass;
   11.   Decoupage;
   12.   Dough art;
   13.   Pottery and ceramics;
   14.   Macramé and weavings;
   15.   Batik and silkscreen;
   16.   Dry floral arrangements;
   17.   Other unique handicrafts.
   It shall not mean the sale of manufactured or mass produced items including
any of the above, nor shall it include appliances, furniture (unless hand-
crafted by the exhibitor), coins, hardware, clothing (unless handcrafted by the
exhibitor), linens, vehicles of any type, toys (unless handcrafted by the
exhibitor), food items, plants, and other similar uses.
17.006.011 Automobile repair, major.
   General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines including removal of
same; motor vehicles, trucks, or trailer collision service including body,
frame or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop.
17.006.0120 Automobile repair, minor.
   Upholstering, replacement of parts and motor service, not including removal
of the motor, to passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one and one-half tons
capacity, or any use similar thereto, but not including any operation under
"Automobile Repair, Major," or any use similar thereto.
17.006.0125 Automobile sales lot.
   Premises on which new or used passenger automobiles, trailers or trucks in
operating condition are displayed in the open for sale trade. Any auto repair
work shall conform to the requirements of Chapter 17.105, "Service Stations and
Garages."
17.006.0130 Automobile service, gas or filling station.
   A place which provides for the servicing, washing and fueling or operating
motor vehicles, including minor repairs and the sale of automotive merchandise
and supplies incidental thereto.
17.006.0135 Awning.
   A roof-like cover, temporary or permanent in nature, which projects from the
wall of a building or overhangs the public way.
17.006.0140 Balcony.
   An open platform enclosed by a short parapet wall or a railing, projecting
from an exterior wall of a building without a roof structure.
17.006.0145 Basement.
   That portion of a building which is partly or wholly underground. When more
than one-half of its height is above ground, a basement shall be counted as a
story for the purposes of height measurement and for gross floor area.
17.006.0150 Block.
   That property abutting on one side of a street and lying between two
intersecting or intercepting streets and railroad right-of-way, unsubdivided
acreage, water course, dead end street, or body of water.
17.006.0155 Bluff (ocean).
   A bank or cliff rising from the beach or coastline.
17.006.0160 Bluff access (ocean).
   The place, or way which the public shall have safe, adequate and usable
ingress and egress to the coastal blufftops.
17.006.0165 Bluff top (ocean).
   The point at which the slope of the bluff begins to change from near
horizontal to more vertical.
17.006.0170 Boarding house.
   A building, other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals are regularly
provided for compensation to the residents of the building.
17.006.0175 Building.
   Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof supported by
columns or walls, for the housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind, including but not limited to awnings, tents, trailers, or
trailers used for the purpose of a building.
17.006.0180 Building area total.
   Shall have the same meaning as "floor area, gross." (Ord. 94-04 § 3 (part),
1994)
17.006.0185 Building heights.
   The vertical distance to be measured from the highest point of the roof to
the center point of the building footprint at site grade; see Section
17.006.0908.
17.006.0190 Building, main.
   A building in which is conducted the principal use of the building site on
which it is situated.
17.006.0195 Building pad.
   The area of a parcel exclusive of required yard setbacks, unbuildable
easements (such as but not to slope easements) or otherwise unbuildable areas
as defined by city
17.006.0200 Building setback line.
   A line established by this Ordinance to govern the placement of buildings or
structures with respect to lot lines.
17.006.0200 Building setback line.
   A line established by this Ordinance to govern the placement of buildings or
structures with respect to lot lines, streets, alleys, blufftops, wetlands or
stream channels indicated on United States Geologic Service (U.S.G.S.)
topographic maps.
17.006.0205 Building site.
   A lot or parcel of land, in single or joint ownership occupied or to be
occupied under the terms of this Ordinance for which access is available.
17.006.0215 Bulk.
   The term used to designate the overall size and mutual relationships of
buildings and other structures, as to size, height, coverage, shape, location
of exterior walls in relation to lot lines, to the center of streets, to other
walls of the same building, and to other buildings or structures; and to all
open spaces relating to the building or structure.
17.006.0220 Business.
   Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is exhibited or
sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or where services
are offered for compensation.
17.006.0225 California coastal act.
   The 1976 State of California legislation which established regulations to
protect coastal resources, commencing with Public Resources Code Section 30000,
or as it may, from time to time, be amended.
17.006.0230 California coastal commission.
   California Coastal Commission established for the implementation of the 1976
Coastal Act.
17.006.0235 Cantilever.
   A structure which is horizontally attached to the main portion of that
structure without separate vertical supports.
17.006.0240 Carport.
   An accessory structure or a portion of a main structure, having a permanent
roof, and designed for the storage of motor vehicles, and having at least two
walls which are totally open, with the exception of required vertical
structure.
17.006.0245 Channel.
   The area occupied by the normal flow of an intermittent or perennial stream
during non-flood conditions.
17.006.0250   Check-cashing establishment.
   Any establishment whose primary purpose is to provide check cashing, pay day
loans, car title loans, signature loans, and other similar financial services.
Does not include a state or federally chartered bank, savings association,
credit union, or industrial loan company. Does not include retail sellers
engaged primarily in the business of selling consumer goods that provides check
cashing services for a flat fee not exceeding two dollars ($2.00) as an
incidental service. (Ord. O-2019-006 § 2 (part), 2019)
17.006.0255 City.
   The city of Pismo Beach, California.
17.006.0260 City council.
   The city council of Pismo Beach, California.
17.006.0265 Club or lodge.
   A non-profit association of persons, who as members, own, hire, or lease a
building or portion thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to
enrolled members and their guests.
17.006.0270 Coastal appeal zone.
   Applicable to Areas in the Coastal Zone. The area between the sea and the
first public road paralleling the sea or within three hundred feet of the
inland extent of any beach or of the mean high tide line where there is no
beach, whichever is the greater distance. Also, any land located on tidelands,
submerged lands, public trust lands, or within one hundred feet of any wetland,
estuary, stream, or within three hundred feet of the top of the seaward face of
any coastal bluff.
17.006.0275 Coastal dependent development or use.
   Any development or use which requires a site on, or adjacent to, the sea to
be able to function at all.
17.006.0280 Coastal development permit.
   A permit for any development required pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section
305600 of the California Public Resources Code and Chapter 17.124 of this
Title.
17.006.0285 Coastal resources.
   Include but are not limited to public access and public access facilities
and opportunities, recreation areas and recreational facilities and
opportunities (including for recreational water-oriented activities), public
views, natural landforms, marine resources, watercourses (e.g., rivers,
streams, creeks, etc.), and their related corridors, water bodies, (e.g.,
wetlands, estuaries, lakes, etc.) and their related uplands, ground water
resources, biological resources, environmentally sensitive habitat areas,
agricultural lands, and archaeological or paleontological resources. (Ord. O-
2015-006 § 2 (part), 2015: Ord. O-2014-005 § 2 (part), 2014)
17.006.0290 Coastal zone.
   That land and water area of the State of California from the Oregon border
to the border of the Republic of Mexico, specified on the maps identified and
set forth in Section 17 of that chapter of the Statutes of the 1975-76 Regular
Session, enacting Division 20 of the California Coastal Act, extending seaward
to the state's outer limit or jurisdiction, including all offshore islands, and
extending inland generally one hundred yards from the mean high tide line of
the sea. In significant coastal estuaries, habitats and recreation areas it
extends inland to the first major ridgeline paralleling the sea or five miles
from the mean high tide line of the sea, whichever is less, and in developed
urban areas the zone generally extends inland less than one thousand yards. The
coastal zone does not include the area of jurisdiction of the San Francisco Bay
Conservation and Development Commission, established pursuant to Title 7.2
(commencing with Section 66600) of the Government Code, nor any area contiguous
thereto, including any river, stream, tributary, creek, or flood control or
drainage channel flowing into such area.
17.006.0295 Common open space.
   That open space portion of a development belonging equally to two or more
condominium owners or similar owners.
17.006.0300 Communication equipment building(s).
   Building(s) housing electrical and mechanical equipment necessary or the
conduct of a public utility communications business with or without personnel.
17.006.0310 Conditional use permit.
   See Chapter 37.121.
17.006.0315 Condominium.
   As currently defined in California Civil Code Section 783 (1982 Statutes),
an estate in real property consisting of an individual interest in common of a
portion of a parcel of real property together with a separate interest in space
in a residential or commercial building on such real property such as an
apartment, office or store. A condominium may include in addition a separate
interest in other portions of such real property.
17.006.0320 Construction.
   Any site preparation, assembly, erection, creation, substantial repair,
alteration or similar action, as distinguished from the repair or maintenance
of something already existing.
17.006.0330 Creek corridor.
   The area between the top of the banks along a shallow perennial or
intermittent tributary to a river or to the sea.
17.006.0333 Creek corridor, riparian.
   The landward extent of any riparian vegetation adjacent to a stream bank.
17.006.0335 Critical facility.
   Hospitals, fire, police and emergency service facilities, utility "lifeline"
facilities, such as water, electricity, and gas supply, sewage disposal and
communications and transportation facilities which would be necessary during
disasters such as fires, tidal waves, earthquakes and releases of nuclear
radiation during such disasters for the protection of public health, safety and
welfare.
17.006.0340 Cut.
   An excavation, the difference between a point on the original ground and a
designated point of lower elevation on the finished grade.
17.006.0345 Day care facility.
   A facility which provides supervised care, therapy, instruction or medical
treatment to individuals during daytime. No person or patients are permitted to
remain overnight. This category includes: day treatment clinics, children's day
center, and workshop for the handicapped.
17.006.0347 Demolition.
   Demolition means removal of more than fifty percent of the linear feet of
the exterior walls (structural framing) of a building.
   A.   A wall, or portion of a wall, is deemed "removed" when its structure is
separated from the foundation or relocated, or when the wall is enclosed behind
newly constructed space.
   B.   For the purposes of calculating the amount of exterior walls removed,
the remaining exterior walls must be contiguous. (Ord. O-2016-006 § 1 (part),
2016)
17.006.0350 Density.
   The number of residential or motel units per acre.
17.006.0355 Density bonus.
   The awarding of greater unit densities within an established land use
density range. (Note: Density bonuses above the specified ranges may be
considered in return for the provision of housing that is affordable to persons
and families of low and moderate income.)
17.006.0360 Density transfer.
   A technique of retaining open space by transferring permitted density from
one developable parcel or area to another developable parcel or area.
17.006.0365 Development.
   On land, in or under water, the placement or erection of any solid material
or structure; discharge or disposal of any dredged material or of any gaseous,
liquid, solid, or thermal waste; grading, removing, dredging, mining, or
extraction of any materials; change in the density or intensity of use of land,
including but not limited to: subdivision pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act
(commencing with Section 66410 of the Government Code), and any other division
of land, including lot splits except where the land division is brought about
in connection with the purchase of such land by a public agency for public
recreational use; change in the intensity of use of water, or of access
thereto; construction, reconstruction, demolition, or alteration of the size of
any structure, including any facility of any private, public or municipal
utility; and the removal or harvesting of major vegetation other than for
agricultural purposes and kelp harvesting, and timber operations which are in
accordance with a timber harvesting plan submitted pursuant to the provisions
of the Z'berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act of 1973 (commencing with Section
4511).
17.006.0370 Development permit.
   See Chapter 17.121.
17.006.0375 District.
   A portion of the city within which certain uses of land and buildings as are
permitted or prohibited and within which certain yards and other open spaces
are required and certain height limits are established for buildings, all set
forth and specified in this Title.
17.006.0380 Dredging.
   Any mechanical filter alteration of the grade of bottom sediments in any
body of water.
17.006.0385 Drive-in establishment.
   An establishment which accommodates the patrons of motor vehicles from which
the occupants may watch, purchase or receive goods or services.
17.006.0390 Driveway.
   An improved road, the use of which is ordinarily limited to persons residing
or working on the site and their invitees, license and business visitors, which
provides access to off-street parking or loading facilities.
17.006.0395 Dwelling.
   A building or portion thereof designed and used exclusively for non-
transient residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, three-family
dwellings and apartments and multiple family dwellings.
17.006.0400 Dwelling, single family.
   A dwelling unit designed exclusively for use and occupancy by one family.
17.006.0405 Dwelling, two-family or duplex.
   A building containing not more than two kitchens designed and/or used to
house not more than two families, living independently of each other under a
common roof.
17.006.0410 Dwelling, three-family or triplex.
   A building containing not more than three kitchens, designed and/or used to
house not more than three families, living independently of each other sharing
a common roof.
17.006.0415 Dwelling, multiple.
   A building or portion thereof, used and designed as a residence for four or
more families living independently of each other with a separate kitchen
facility for each unit, including apartment houses, but not including motels,
hotels and boarding houses.
17.006.0420 Dwelling groups.
   A group of two or more detached or semi-detached, one-family, two-family or
multiple family dwellings occupying a parcel of land in one ownership and
having a court in common.
17.006.0425 Easement.
   A portion of land created by grant or agreement for specific purpose; an
easement is the right, privilege or interest which one party has in the land of
another (examples, right-of-way, public access or recreation area, etc.).
17.006.0430 Energy facility.
   Any public or private processing, producing, generating, storing,
transmitting, or recovering facility for electricity, natural gas, petroleum,
coal or other source of energy, excluding active and passive solar equipment
for residential, commercial and resort developments.
17.006.0435 Environmentally sensitive habitat.
   Those identifiable resources within the coastal zone which, due to their
sensitivity or public value must be protected or preserved within the intent of
Section 30230, 30231, 30233, 30236, and 30240 of the Coastal Act. Also, see
Sensitive Coastal Resource Areas.
17.006.0440 Family.
   An individual or household of two or more persons living together in a
dwelling unit, who need not be related by blood or marriage (Refer to Chapter
17.108, Parking).
17.006.0445 Family care facility.
   A facility which provides service in a private residence to six or fewer
individuals who are not related to the resident household. These individuals
are handicapped, aged, disabled or in need of adult supervision, and are
provided such service in accordance with their individual needs. (See also
Group Care Facilities.) This category includes:
   A.   Family care home for children includes nurseries for children of
working mothers and parent cooperative nursery schools licensed by the State
Department of Social Welfare to provide care and supervision of children in a
home setting during the day or twenty-four hours.
   B.   Nursery (Mentally Retarded and Other Handicapped infants). Nursery
facility that provides nursing services primarily in crib accommodations in a
family home setting.
   C.   Family Home Care. Facility for mentally ill or retarded adults and
children and the aged. These facilities are licensed by the State Department of
Medical Hygiene or certified by the State Department of Social Welfare. The
home is intended for not more than six patients, who are provided with a
program of services and protective supervision in a home setting.
17.006.0450 Feasible.
   Capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a reasonable
period of time, taking into account economic, environmental, social, and
technological factors.
17.006.0455 Fence.
   Any structural device forming a physical barrier by means of hedge, wood,
mesh, metal, chain, brick, stake or other similar materials.
17.006.0460 Fill.
   The depositing of earth or any other substance or material by artificial
means, including new pilings (except for replacement pilings) placed for the
purposes of erecting structures thereon placed in a submerged area, any action
by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is placed, pushed,
pumped, pulled, transported, or moved to a new location above the natural
surface of the ground or on top of the stripped surface and shall include the
conditions resulting therefrom.
17.006.0465 Finished grade.
   The level of the finished surface of the ground at the completion of all
grading by a subdivider or developer as approved in the final project grading
plans by the city. (See Site Grade.)
17.006.0470 Floodplain.
   Lowland or relatively flat area adjoining inland or coastal areas that are
subject to periodic inundation as a result in flood flows.
17.006.0475 Floodplain, 100-year.
   The area subject to flooding in a major storm which has the potential for
occurring once during a one hundred year period and described by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development Federal Insurance Administration.
17.006.0480 Floodway.
   A channel for passing floodways and described by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development Federal Insurance Administration.
17.006.0485 Floor area, gross.
   The total horizontal area, in square feet, on all floors within the exterior
walls of a structure, including garages and carports, but excluding the area of
courts, open decks, unenclosed patios and basements. Roofed portions of
structures which are enclosed by vertical wall surfaces exceeding sixty percent
of the total vertical area between the floor and roof planes shall be included
as building area. (Ord. 94-04 § 3 (part), 1994)
17.006.0490 Floor area ratio.
   The ratio of the gross floor area of the structure to the total area of the
lot or building site. (Ord. 94-04 § 3 (part), 1994)
17.006.0495 Floor coverage, lot.
   (See Lot Coverage)
17.006.0505 Frontage.
   The property line or a site abutting on a public or private street or
highway, other than the sideline or streetside of a corner lot.
17.006.0510 Garage.
   Any accessory structure or a portion of a main structure, having a permanent
roof, three walls and door(s) and designed and usable for the storage of motor
vehicles.
17.006.0515 Garage, public parking.
   A garage building designed, constructed, and used for the storage of
vehicles and available for public use.
17.006.0520 Geological report.
   An official or formal statement of facts giving an account of or
disseminating information as to the geological condition of a particular site.
The report shall cover all, but may not be limited to the requirements of
Chapter 17.078 of this Title.
17.006.0525 General plan.
   The adopted general plan of the city of Pismo Beach, including elements,
amendments, additions and appendices.
17.006.0528   Gold and silver exchange.
   Any establishment that is engaged in accepting gold, silver, and/or other
precious metals, primarily from jewelry, in exchange for monies. For
establishments that engage in the exchange of monies for valuable articles
other than precious metals, see "pawn shop." (Ord. O-2019-006 § 2 (part), 2019)
17.006.0530 Government code.
   The Government Code of the State of California.
17.006.0535 Grading.
   Excavating, filling, leveling, or smoothing or combination thereof.
17.006.0540 Group care facility.
   A facility which provides resident services to seven or more individuals of
whom one or more are unrelated. These individuals may be handicapped, aged,
disabled or are undergoing rehabilitation, and are provided services to meet
their needs. This category includes uses licensed or supervised by federal or
state health or welfare agencies. This category includes: boarding homes for
the aged, board and care homes for adults, foster homes for children, group
homes are half-way houses. (See also Family Care Facility.)
17.006.0545 Guest house.
   Detached living quarters of a permanent type of construction of less than
four hundred square feet, kitchen facilities not permitted, clearly subordinate
and incidental to the main building on the same building site, where no
compensation in any form is received or paid whether directly or indirectly for
occupancy of the unit.
17.006.0550 Hedges.
   Trees or shrubbery planted and maintained in such a manner as to create a
physical barrier.
17.006.0555 Height.
   See Building Height.
17.006.0557 Hillsides.
   The term hillside areas is defined as all properties with slopes of ten
percent or more. No grading shall commence on slopes greater than thirty
percent, including, but not limited to, access roads and driveways. The
hillside development regulations of the city of Pismo Beach Zoning Ordinance
(Chapter 17.078) shall apply in addition to the standards and procedures set
forth in the ordinance codified in this section for all properties in this
category. (Ord. 88-10 § 3, 1988)
17.006.0560 Home occupation.
   See Chapter 17.115.
17.006.0565 Homeowners association.
   A non-profit association of the owners of all land in a give area formed for
the purpose of improving or maintaining the quality of the area.
17.006.0567 Homestay.
   See
Chapter 17.113. (Ord. O-2018-006 § 2 (part), 2018)
17.006.0570 Hospital.
   See Major Medical Care Facility.
17.006.0575 Hotel.
   See Motel.
17.006.0576 Implementing actions of the local coastal plan.
   Ordinances, regulations or programs which implement the provisions of the
certified local coastal program land use plan.
17.006.0577 Inauguration.
   For the purposes of this title, inauguration of use shall be either of the
following: (a) securing of a building permit for approved construction projects
and construction has commenced; or (b) for subdivisions, recordation of the
final, city-approved map at the county recorder's office. For the permit to
remain valid, construction under the building permit must successfully complete
the first inspection within six months of issuance of the building permit. A
foundation permit shall be treated as equivalent to a building permit, but
grading, demolition, electrical, mechanical or plumbing permits shall not be
considered or treated as building permits. (Ord. O-2016-006 § 1 (part), 2016)
17.006.0580 In-lieu fees.
   Cash payments required as a substitute for a dedication and/or improvement
of land by an owner or developer of property.
17.006.0585 Inn.
   See Motel.
17.006.0590 Jacuzzi.
   A small pool of heated water used for recreation or physical therapy. (See
Swimming Pool.)
17.006.0595 Junkyard.
   More than one hundred square feet of area of any roofed or unroofed lot used
for the storage of junk, including scrap metals, salvage or other scrap
materials bought, sold, exchanged, packaged, disassembled or handled, including
auto and building wrecking yards.
17.006.0600 Kennel.
   Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises, except those activities
of a duly licensed veterinary hospital, public pound, or the buying or selling
of livestock accessory to an agricultural, use where four or more small
domestic animals, four months of age or older, not sick or injured, are held or
maintained for compensation or cared for or trained for hire, or are for sale
for breeding purposes.
17.006.0605 Kitchen.
   Any space used, intended or designed to be used for cooking and preparing
food.
17.006.0610 Laboratory, commercial.
   Place devoted to testing, analyzing and experimental study. This use does
not include manufacturing, assembly, or packaging of products within this
definition.
17.006.0615 Landscaping.
   The planting and continued maintenance of ornamental plant material and
shall include the installation, use and continued maintenance of permanent
irrigation system.
17.006.0620 Lateral access.
   The place, area or way the public shall have safe adequate and usable
ingress and egress paralleling the Pacific Ocean, stream corridors or other
wetlands.
17.006.0625 Livestock.
   Domestic or useful animals normally kept or reared on a farm or ranch for
work, breeding, fattening, or other purposes, including but not limited to
horses, cows, sheep, swine and goats.
17.006.0630 Livestock feeding pen.
   Any area in which livestock are kept for fattening or dairy purposes and are
fed by methods other than grazing.
17.006.0635 Loading space (parking).
   See Parking Regulations.
17.006.0640 Local coastal plan.
   See Local Coastal Program.
17.006.0645 Local coastal program.
   The city's land use plans, zoning ordinances, zoning district maps, and,
within sensitive coastal resource areas, implementing actions which, when taken
together, meet the requirements of, and implement the provisions and policies
of the California Coastal Act of 1976, at the local level.
17.006.0650 Local coastal program land use plan (element).
   That portion of the general plan which has been prepared by the city of
Pismo Beach and which establishes land use designations and related goals,
policies and programs governing the use of land within the coastal zone.
17.006.0655 Lodging house.
   The same definition as boarding house, but no meals shall be provided, or
shall any meals be permitted in any guest room therein.
17.006.0660 Loft.
   A floor of a building which is generally open to the floor beneath. This
floor shall be counted as floor space of the structure.
17.006.0665 Lot.
   A legal unit of land created in accordance with subdivision rules and
assigned a lot number.
17.006.0670 Lot area.
   The total horizontal area included within lot lines, but excluding any
portion of such area which has been dedicated for public right-of-way purposes.
17.006.0675 Lot, corner.
   A lot abutting upon two or more streets, at their intersection or upon two
parts of the same street, such streets or part of the same street forming an
interior angle of less than one hundred thirty-five degrees.
17.006.0680 Lot coverage by buildings.
   The coverage of a lot by all portions of the building, either at or above
ground level, including garages, carports and cantilever portions of the
building excluding roof overhangs, eves or similar architectural extensions.
17.006.0685 Lot depth.
   The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in
the mean direction of the side lot lines.
17.006.0090 Lot, interior.
   A lot other than a corner lot.
17.006.0695 Lot line.
   A line separating the frontage from a street; the side from a street or
adjoining property; the rear of side from an alley or street or adjoining
property.
17.006.0700 Lot line, front.
   In the case of an interior lot, the line separating the lot from the street
right of way. In the case of a corner lot, the shorter street frontage shall be
the front lot line.
17.006.0705 Lot line, rear.
   The lot line opposite and most distant front the font lot line.
17.006.0710 Lot line, side.
   Any lot boundary which is not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
17.006.0715 Lot merger.
   The combining of two or more contiguous lots in common ownership into one or
more legal parcels.
17.006.0720 Lot, nonconforming.
   Any lot existing and recorded as a separate legal parcel in the office of
the county recorder at the effective date of this Title which does not conform
to the requirements for new lots for the district in which it is located or
does not conform to the subdivision regulations of the city of Pismo Beach.
17.006.0725 Lot, through.
   An interior lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel
dedicated streets. Only when one of these two streets is a major arterial to
which access is not permitted shall the local street be considered the only
frontage or lot front.
17.006.0730 Major medical care facility.
   An institution which provides intensive supervision and/or medically
supervised treatment to patients who are generally non-ambulatory. This
category shall include: hospitals (general), hospitals (special), extended care
facilities, and children's treatment centers.
17.006.0731 Marijuana cultivation.
   The planting, growing, harvesting, drying or processing of marijuana plants
or any part thereof. Marijuana cultivation shall not be a permitted use in any
zone, and no conditional use permit shall issue to permit the cultivation of
marijuana in any zone.
(Ord. O-2016-003 § 1, 2016)
17.006.0732 Massage establishment–accessory.
   Any establishment that offers massage therapy in exchange for compensation
as an accessory use. "Massage therapy" means the skillful application of touch,
including but not limited to, pressure, stroking, kneading, or compression on
or movement of the external surfaces of the body to produce increased
awareness, relaxation, pain relief, injury rehabilitation, or neuromuscular
reeducation. Examples of massage include but are not limited to Swedish
massage, sports massage, shiatsu, polarity therapy, rolfing, hellerwork, and
reflexology.
   "Accessory" for purposes of this section means occupying no more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the following types of primary
uses, as determined via Zoning Clearance application (See Section
17.121.100):
   A.   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, nurses, physical
therapists, or acupuncturists who are duly licensed to practice their
respective professions in the state.
   B.   Barbers, beauticians, cosmetologists, and estheticians who are duly
licensed under the laws of the state while engaging in practices within the
scope of their licenses.
   C.   Trainers of amateur, semiprofessional, or professional athletes or
athletic teams while engaging in their training responsibilities for and with
athletes; and trainers working in conjunction with a specific athletic event
such as road races, track meets, triathlons, or similar single-occurrence
athletic or recreational events.
   D.   Hotels with seventy-five (75) or more rooms.
   E.   Other uses as approved by the Planning Commission. (Ord. O-2019-006 § 2
(part), 2019)
17.006.0733   Massage establishment–primary.
   Any establishment that offers massage therapy in exchange for compensation
as a primary use. "Massage therapy" means the skillful application of touch,
including but not limited to, pressure, stroking, kneading, or compression on
or movement of the external surfaces of the body to produce increased
awareness, relaxation, pain relief, injury rehabilitation, or neuromuscular
reeducation. Examples of massage include but are not limited to Swedish
massage, sports massage, shiatsu, polarity therapy, rolfing, hellerwork, and
reflexology.
   "Primary" for purposes of this section means occupying more than twenty-five
percent (25%) of the floor area of the establishment. (Ord. O-2019-006 § 2
(part), 2019)
17.006.0734   Medical marijuana dispensary.
   A facility where marijuana is made available for medical purposes in
accordance with Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this title, a medical marijuana dispensary shall
not be a permitted use in any zone, and no conditional use permit shall issue
to permit a medical marijuana dispensary to operate in any zone. A "medical
marijuana dispensary" shall not include the following uses, as long as the
location of such uses area is otherwise regulated by this Code or applicable
law: a clinic licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 of Division 2 of the Health and
Safety Code, a health care facility license pursuant to Chapter 2 of Division 2
of the Health and Safety Code, a residential care facility for persons with
chronic life-threatening illness licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.01 of the
Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a residential care facility for the
elderly licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.2 of the Division 2 of the Health and
Safety Code, a residential hospice, or a home health agency licensed pursuant
to Chapter 8 of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, as long as any such
use complies strictly with applicable California and federal law. (Ord. O-2019-
006 § 2 (part), 2019: Ord. 2006-02 § 2, 2006)
17.006.0735 Mitigation measures.
   Those actions taken for alleviating, reducing, abating or diminution of
adverse impacts.
17.006.0740 Mobile homes (Manufactured Housing: Factory Built Housing, Modular
homes).
   1.   A vehicle, other than a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle (RV)
designed for human habitation, or for human purposes, and capable of carrying
property on its own structure and of being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   2.   As defined in conjunction with mobile home (MH) overlay zone (Section
17.106), a structure transportable in one or more sections, which is twenty
body feet or more in width and is thirty-two feet or more in length, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a residential
dwelling on a single family residential (R-1) lot with a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating,
air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein.
17.006.0745 Mobile home park.
   As currently defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 18214
(1982 Statutes), a mobile home park is any area or tract of land where two or
more mobile home lots are rented, leased or held out for rental or lease to
accommodate mobile homes for human habitation. (Subject to the provisions and
regulations established by Ordinance 79).
17.006.0750 Modular buildings.
   A state certified modular structure meeting all building code requirements.
The structures are permitted in any zone as provided for by this Title. Modular
structures must conform to the provisions of the Uniform Building Code and
require architectural approval.
17.006.0755 Motel.
   Building(s) containing guest rooms or apartments used primarily for the
accommodation of transient guests.
17.006.0760 Nonconforming structure.
   A structure which was lawfully erected prior to the adoption of this Title
but which, under this Title does not conform with the standards prescribed in
the regulations for new development for the district in which it is located,
including, without limitation, setbacks, size, height, parking or similar
regulations.
17.006.0765 Nonconforming use.
   A use of a structure or land which was lawfully established and maintained
prior to the adoption of this Title, but which under this Title does not
conform with the use regulations for new uses within the district in which it
is located.
17.006.0770 Nursing, sanitarium or rest home.
   See Family Care Facility and Group Care Facility.
17.006.0775 Nursery, garden.
   A facility or area used for sale, display or propagation of plants, trees,
shrubs and other related products.
17.006.0780 Office.
   A business establishment for rendering of services or administration, but
excluding retail sales.
17.006.0785 Off-street loading facilities.
   A site or a portion of a site devoted to the loading or unloading of motor
vehicles. (See Parking Requirements).
17.006.0790 Off-street parking facilities.
   A site or portion of a site or a building designed for the loading or
unloading from motor vehicles including parking spaces, aisles, access drives
and landscaped areas.
17.006.0795 Overlay zones.
   Establishes development standards in areas of special concern (e.g., fault
zones, historic districts, flood plains environmentally sensitive habitats and
hillsides) over and above the standards applicable to basic land uses (e.g.,
commercial, residential, industrial).
17.006.0800 Parcel.
   A portion of land having been assigned an assessor's parcel number and which
may include a number of lots under a common usage.
17.006.0805 Parking area, public.
   An area, other than a street or other public way used for the parking of
automobiles and available to the public whether for a fee, free, or as an
accommodation for clients or customers. Area includes all space needed for the
movement of vehicles and people, screening or buffering space, landscaping and
access drives.
17.006.806 Parking lot.
   An area not within a building where vehicles may be stored. (Ord. 2004-03 §
1 (Exh. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0807 Parking structure.
   A building or portion of a building below or above ground where vehicles may
be stored. (Ord. 2004-03 § 1 (Exh. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0810 Parking space.
   An off-street area, for the parking of a motor vehicle, with at least seven
feet of vertical clearance either within a structure or in the open, excluding
driveways, or access drives, but which abuts upon a street, alley or has other
appropriate means of access.
17.006.0813 Passive solar system.
   A system that uses heat transfer from a thermal mass instead of mechanical
power to distribute collected heat. Passive Systems rely on building design,
orientation, and materials to collect and store heat and to create natural
ventilation for cooling.
17.006.0814   Pawn shop.
   Any establishment that engages in the business of receiving jewelry,
precious stones, valuables, firearms, clothing, personal property, or any other
article or articles in pledge for loans, or as security, or in pawn for the
repayment of monies, and exacts an interest for such loans, or who purchases
articles or personal property and agrees to resell such articles so purchased
to the vendors thereof, or their assigns, at prices agreed upon at or before
the time of such purchases, respectively. Does not include banks, trust
companies, or bond brokers, who may otherwise be regulated by law and
authorized to deal in commercial papers, shares of stock, bonds, and other
certificates of value.
   For businesses that engage primarily in the exchange of monies for precious
metals, see "gold and silver exchange." (Ord. O-2019-006 § 2 (part), 2019)
17.006.0815 Percentage slope.
   A calculation derived from measuring the change in elevation on a site.
Percentage slope equals the amount of elevation rise or fall, divided by the
distance of land used to measure the change in elevation. For example:
 
 4 foot elevation change = 4 -4% slope
100-foot lot length         100
  
17.006.0820 Permit.
   Any licenses, certificate, approval, or other entitlement for development
and/or use of property as required by any public agency.
17.006.0825 Permitted use.
   An allowable use inherently compatible with other uses in that district, not
requiring a conditional use permit.
17.006.0830 Planning commission.
   The planning commission of the city of Pismo Beach, California.
17.006.0835 Planned unit development (planned residential development).
   A.   Residential Generally. Consists of a residential development with
clustered residential uses and common open space and may include a variety of
housing types and styles as well as community facilities for recreation areas.
   B.   Non-residential. Generally, consists of planned industrial parks,
shopping centers, office building parks or any development that comprises
groups of buildings planned and built in pre-arranged relationships to each
other and to the common facilities or properties.
17.006.0840 Plot.
   See Lot.
17.006.0845 Pool.
   See Swimming Pool.
17.006.0847 Primary dwelling unit.
   A single dwelling on a lot that contains no other dwellings, other than an
accessory dwelling unit as defined in this section. (Ord. O-2018-010 § 1, 2018:
Ord. 2007-005 § 1 (Exh. A (part)), 2007: Ord. 04-02 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2004:
Ord. 03-03 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.006.0850 Public works.
   Public works means the following:
   A.   All production, storage, transmission, and recovery facilities for
water, sewerage, telephone, and other similar utilities owned or operated by
any public agency or by any utility subject to the jurisdiction of the public
utilities commission, except for energy facilities;
   B.   All public transportation facilities, including streets, roads,
highways, public parking lots and structures, ports, harbors airports,
railroads, and mass transit facilities and station, bridges, trolley wires, and
other related facilities;
   C.   All publicly financed recreational facilities, all projects of the
State Coastal Conservancy, and any development by a special district;
   D.   All community college facilities.
17.006.0855 Raised structures.
   Structures such as patios, decks, porches, landing places or outside
stairways that have a vertical measurement of thirty inches or more above
existing grade.
17.006.0860 Recreational (trailer) vehicle.
   As currently defined by State Law: "A motor home, travel trailer, truck
camper or camping trailer, with or without motive power, designed for transient
habitation for recreational or emergency occupancy only, with a living area
less than two hundred twenty square feet, excluding built-in equipment such as
wardrobes, closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures, bath and toilet
rooms," Health and Safety Code Section 18215.5.
17.006.0865 Recreational trailer vehicle parks.
   As currently defined by State Law: "Any area or tract of land, within an
area zoned for recreational vehicle use, where one or more lots are rented,
leased, or held out for use to owners or users of recreational vehicles or
tents and which is occupied for temporary purposes." (See Health and Safety
Code Sec. 18215 and Municipal Code Chapter 5.24).
17.006.0870 Reconnaissance.
   A preliminary survey of a specific region or area.
17.006.0874   Resale establishment.
   Any establishment that primarily resells common contemporary or antique
household items, clothing, consumer products, appliances, and similar products,
including antique stores, consignment stores, and general used merchandise
stores such as "thrift," "Salvation Army," and "Goodwill" stores. Does not
include pawn shops. (Ord. O-2019-006 § 2 (part), 2019)
17.006.0875 Retail.
   The sale of lots directly to the consumer.
17.006.0880 Sea.
   The Pacific Ocean and all harbors, bays, channels, estuaries, salt marshes,
sloughs, and other areas subject to tidal action through any connection with
the Pacific Ocean, excluding non-estuarine rivers, streams, tributaries,
creeks, and flood control and drainage channels.
17.006.0885 Seawall.
   A wall, structure, device, rock embankment or similar facility located along
bluff and bank edges.
17.006.0890 Secondary use.
   A use which is subordinate to or auxiliary to that of a principle use.
17.006.0895 Sensitive coastal resource areas.
   Those identifiable and geographically bounded land and water areas within
the coastal zone of vital interest and sensitivity, including:
   A.   Special marine and land habitat areas, wetlands, lagoons, and estuaries
as mapped and designed in the general plan/local coastal program land use plan;
   B.   Areas possessing significant recreational value;
   C.   Highly scenic areas;
   D.   Archaeological sites referenced in the California coastline and
recreation plan or as designated by the State Historic Preservation Office;
   E.   Special communities or neighborhoods which are significant visitor
destination areas;
   F.   Areas that provide existing coastal housing or recreational
opportunities for low and moderate income persons;
   G.   Areas where divisions of land could substantially impair or restrict
coastal access.
17.006.0900 Setback line.
   A line established by ordinance to govern the placement of buildings with
respect to lot lines, streets or alleys.
17.006.0901 Shopping Center (land use).
   Primarily retail commercial and/or mixed use sites with eight or more
separate businesses sharing common private pedestrian and parking areas. (Ord.
05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-010 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0902 Short-term rental.
   See
Chapter 17.113. (Ord. O-2018-006 § 2 (part), 2018)
17.006.0903 Shortage of public services for new development.
   Determination to the effect that municipal resources needed to accommodate
new development are not readily available.
17.006.0905 Significant natural resource areas.
   Those areas identified in the city of Pismo Beach general plan as areas
wherein special material resources (as described in the natural resources
component of the general plan) unique to each geographic area have beer
designated for special protection measures. These areas are Pismo Marsh, Pismo
Creek, Shoreline Area, Coastal Foothill Area and the Butterfly Habitats
identified on the general plan, Figures EN-11.
17.006.0908 Site grade.
   Phrase used in the zoning ordinance to establish lot grade for the purpose
of determining building heights and other development criteria. Site grade is
determined as follows:
   A.   For subdivided properties existing as of the time of adoption of the
October 12, 1996 zoning ordinance, site grade shall be the existing topography
of each parcel as of October 12, 1976;
   B.   For unsubdivided properties, or parcels subdivided after October 12,
1976, site grade shall be established as being the precise topography of the
lot at the time of completion of finished grading, based on city approved
grading plan for the subdivision.
17.006.0909   Smoke shop.
    Any establishment that either: (1) devotes more than fifteen percent (15%)
of its floor space or (2) devotes at least sixteen (16) cumulative cubic feet
of shelf space to smoking paraphernalia. For purposes of this section, "smoking
paraphernalia" means paraphernalia relating to the smoking of tobacco,
cannabis, or other psychoactive substances, or inhalation of vapor containing
nicotine, tetrahydrocannabinol, or other psychoactive substances, including but
not limited to pipes, rolling papers, grinders, lighters, vape pens/e-
cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars, chew, and loose tobacco. (Ord. O- 2019-006 § 2
(part), 2019)
17.006.0910 Spa.
   See Swimming Pool.
17.006.0915 Specific plan.
   A written document and appropriate graphics for development of one or more
parcels which contains the regulations, conditions, programs and legislation
necessary for systematic implementation of each element of the city's general
plan/local coastal program land use plan in conformance with Government Code
Section 5451 et seq.
17.006.0916 Specified anatomical areas.
   Specified anatomical areas shall mean and include any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic
region, buttocks or anus, and female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areola;
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered; and
   C.   Any device, costume or covering that simulates any of the body parts
included in subsections A or B above, even if completely and opaquely covered.
(Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-010 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0917 Specified sexual activities.
   Specified sexual activities shall mean and include any of the following,
whether performed directly or indirectly through clothing or other covering:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breast;
   B.   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation,
or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; and
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the other
activities described in subsections A through C above. (Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A
(part)), 2005: Ord. 04-010 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.006.0919 Stock cooperative.
   As currently defined in California Civil Code Section 11003.2 (1982
Statutes), a corporation which is formed or availed of primarily for the
purpose of holding title to, either in fee simple or for a term of years,
improved real property, in all or substantially all of the share holders of
such corporation receive a right of exclusive occupancy in a portion of the
real property, title to which is held by the corporation, and which transfer of
share or shares of stock or membership certificates in the corporation held by
the person having such right to occupancy.
17.006.0920 Street.
   A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of access to abutting
property, including avenue, place, way, drive, land, boulevard, highway, road,
and any other thoroughfare except an alley as defined herein.
17.006.0925 Structural alteration.
   Arty change in the supporting members of a structure, such as bearing walls,
columns, beams and landscaping.
17.006.0930 Structure.
   Anything constructed or erected; the use of which requires location on or in
the ground, or attachment to something having location on the around including
but not limited to swimming pools, buildings, roads, pipes, conduits, telephone
lines and electrical transmission and distribution lines, driveways, paving,
parking spaces or at-grade patios.
17.006.0935 Structure; temporary.
   A building not permanently attached to the ground or other structure by
fixed foundation, piles, or structures.
17.006.0945 Swimming pool and spa.
   A pool, spa, jacuzzi, hot tub, or open tank, capable of containing water to
a depth greater than one and one-half feet at any point, the primary use of
which is for recreation or physical therapy
17.006.0947   Tattoo establishment.
   A commercial land use where permanent marking or coloring of the skin is
performed by pricking in coloring matter or by producing scars by use of heat,
blades, or needles, and which is conducted in exchange for financial or other
valuable consideration. Does not include the application of permanent cosmetics
(permanent makeup) or tattooing when applied by a licensed dermatologist on
premises licensed as a dermatological office. (Ord. O-2019-006 § 2 (part),
2019)
17.006.0950 Toe of the bluff.
   The point at which thee inland extent of a beach or the mean high tide line
of the ocean where there is no beach meets the face of the bluff.
17.006.0953 Transient lodging or rental.
   Any structure, or any portion of any structure, that is occupied or intended
or designed for occupancy by persons for periods of fewer than thirty days or
one month, whichever is shorter. (Ord. 2007-005 § 1 (Exh. A (part)), 2007: Ord.
04-02 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2004: Ord. 03-03 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.006.0955 Twenty degree rule.
   Establishes a zone between the face of the bluff and the line determined by
extending inland to a point formed by a twenty degree angle from the horizontal
plane at the toe of the bluff, or fifty feet inland from the edge of the cliff
or bluff, whichever is greater. Within this zone a geologic study shall be
required for all development as identified in the local coastal program land
use plan.
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5862.jpg]
 
17.006.0957 Unbuildable areas (for density calculation purposes only).
   Bluff retreat zones, up to a maximum of twenty-five feet of the projected
bluff retreat, other unmitigatable hazard areas, areas in excess of percentage
slope requirements, waterways and other similar unbuildable areas.
17.006.0960 Use.
   The purpose for which land or a building is designed, arranged, or intended
or for which either land or buildings is or may be occupied or maintained.
17.006.0965 Variance permit.
   (See Chapter 17.12).
17.006.0970 Vertical access.
   The place, area or way the public shall have safe, adequate and usable
ingress and egress perpendicular to the mean high tide line of the Pacific
Ocean, stream corridors or other wetlands.
17.006.0975 Visitor serving facility.
   Those stores, shops, businesses, recreational facilities (both public and
private), parks and natural preserves which are regularly utilized by the
traveling public.
17.006.0980 Warehouse.
   A building(s) used primarily for the storage of goods of any type, when such
building contains more than five hundred square feet of storages space, and
where no assembly, manufacturing, or retail operation; is conducted with the
use.
17.006.0982 Working days.
   When used to describe appeal periods, "working days" shall be those days on
which the city hall offices are open to the general public and shall exclude
weekends and legal holidays observed by the city.
17.006.0985 Yard.
   An open space other than a court on the same site with a building, which
open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except for
landscaping or as specified elsewhere in this Title, but not including any
portion of any street, alley or road right of way, except as specified
elsewhere in this Ordinance.
17.006.0990 Yard, front.
   A yard of uniform depth extending across the full width of the lot between
the front lot line and the nearest line of the main building or enclosed or
covered porch. The front yard of a corner lot is the yard adjacent to the
shorter street frontage.
17.006.0995 Yard, rear.
   A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured between the
rear line of the lot and the nearest line of that main building.
17.006.1000 Yard, side.
   A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of the building
and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
17.006.1003 Zero lot line development.
   Development where individual units are located on legal parcels such that
they may abut on a common property line, without yard setbacks or that property
line.
17.006.1005 Zone.
   See District.
17.006.1010 Zoning clearance.
   See Chapter 17.121.
Chapter 17.009 ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS
17.009.010 Establishment and designation of use zones.
   The following districts are hereby established.
17.009.012 A-E  Agricultural Exclusive Zone
17.009.015 U    Unclassified Lone
17.009.018 R-1  One-Family Residential Zone
17.009.021 R-2  Two and Three-Family Residential Zone
17.009.024 R-3  Multiple Family Residential Zone
17.009.027 R-4  Hotel/Motel Zone
17.009.030 R-R  Resort-Residential Zone
17.009.033 P-R  Planned Residential Lone
17.009.036 C-R  Commercial Recreation Zone.
17.009.039 M-H  Mobile Home Zone
17.009.042 C-1  Retail Commercial Zone
17.009.045 C-2  General Commercial Zone
17.009.048 C-M  Commercial Manufacturing Zone
17.009.051 OS-1 Open Space-Natural Resources Protection Zone
17.009.054 OS-R Open Space-Recreational Use Zone
17.009.057 G    Government Zone
 
Chapter 17.012 AGRICULTURAL--EXCLUSIVE (A-E) ZONE
17.012.010 Purpose of zone.
   The agricultural--exclusive or A-E zone is intended to be applied to rural
areas in which agriculture is and should be the desirable predominant use.
Urban reserve areas may be designated agricultural exclusive as an interim land
use. This zone is not a part of the city's local coastal program implementation
measures.
17.012.020 Permitted uses.
   The permitted uses shall include farming in all its branches. The following
uses are illustrative of the types of permitted uses and are not exclusive and
subject to the general provisions of Chapters 17.102, 17.105 and 17.108.
   A.   Animal breeding, pasturing or ranching;
   B.   Field and truck crops;
   C.   Orchards and grove;
   D.   Plant nurseries;
   E.   Buildings only for occupancy and/or agricultural use by the owner or
lessee of the land upon which such buildings are located.
(Refer to Section 6.24.030.040 of the Municipal Code for Animal Keeping
Criteria)
17.012.030 Uses requiring conditional use permit.
   A.   Stands for sale of products grown or produced on premises.
   B.   Public or private recreational facilities, including but not limited to
golf courses and driving ranges, swimming clubs, tennis clubs, equestrian
clubs, parks and public buildings.
   C.   Other uses deemed compatible to the A-E zone and adjacent land uses.
17.012.040 Development standards.
   No land shall be used except for agricultural purposes, and no buildings or
structures shall hereafter be erected which do not provide the following:
   A.   Structures--all barns, corrals or other structures for keeping fowl or
animals shall be located one hundred fifty feet or more from a front property
line or natural water course, or one hundred feet or more from adjoining
property. (See Section 6.24.30.40 of the Municipal Code.)
   B.   Area required--The minimum acreage for an A-E zone shall be forty
acres.
Chapter 17.015 UNCLASSIFIED (U) ZONE
17.015.010 Purpose of zone.
   The unclassified or U zone is a holding zone for areas held in urban reserve
land use designations for future use. These areas shall have a specific plan
prepared and adopted prior to any development (including land divisions) other
than temporary interim uses. This zone is not a part of the city's local
coastal program implementation measures.
17.015.020 Permitted uses.
   A.   Temporary interim agricultural land uses such as, but not limited to,
agriculture, grazing, and caretaker's residence on parcels of five acres or
larger. Use shall only be valid until such time as the area is rezoned to
another zone classification.
   B.   All other uses shall require a zone change to a zoning category
consistent with the general plan/local coastal program land use plan.
Chapter 17.018 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1) ZONE
17.018.010 Purpose of zone.
   The single family residential or R-1 zone is intended to be applied in areas
of the city in which topography, access, utilities, public services and general
conditions make the area suitable and desirable for single family home
development.
17.018.020 Permitted uses.
   In the single family residential zone the following uses only are permitted
as hereafter specifically provided for by this section and subject to the
general provisions and exceptions set forth in Chapters
17.102 and
17.105.
   A.   Single family dwellings;
   B.   Home occupations (see
Chapter 17.115);
   C.   Short-term rentals and homestays (see
Chapter 17.113);
   D.   Accessory private lath houses or greenhouses for the, propagation and
cultivation of plants for hobby and home use only;
   E.   Tree, orchard and/or vegetable gardening for occupants' use only;
   F.   Mobile homes on certain lots as permitted by Municipal Code
Chapter 17.106.
(Ord. O-2018-006 § 3, 2018)
17.018.030 Uses requiring conditional use permits.
   A.   Public utility buildings and structures;
   B.   Public buildings, churches, schools, parks, playgrounds, hospitals,
family care facilities, outdoor recreation facilities.
   C.   Other similar uses deemed to be compatible with the R-1 zone and
adjacent land uses.
Chapter 17.021 TWO AND THREE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-2) ZONE
17.021.010 Purpose of zone.
   The two or three family residential or R-2 zone is intended to he applied in
areas of the city where a density of two or three families per building site
can be physically accommodated and is consistent with the surrounding area of
development and where needed utilities and services can be provided.
17.021.020 Permitted uses.
   In the R-2 zone, the following uses only are permitted as hereafter
specially provided for by this section and subject to the general provisions
and exceptions set forth in Chapters 17.102 and 17.105.
   A.   Single family dwellings;
   B.   Duplexes and triplexes pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 17.121;
   C.   Accessory private lath houses or greenhouses used for the propagating
and cultivating of plants for hobby and home use only;
   D.   Tree, orchard and/or vegetable gardening for occupants' use only;
   E.   Accessory buildings and uses;
   F.   Home occupations (See
Chapter 17.115);
   G.   Short-term rentals and homestays limited to detached single-family
homes (see
Chapter 17.113).
(Ord. O-2019-004 § 3, 2019)
17.021.030 Uses requiring conditional use permits.
   A.   Public utility buildings and, structures;
   B.   Public buildings, churches, schools, parks, playgrounds, hospitals,
family care facilities, outdoor recreation facilities;
   C.   Dwelling groups of two or three separate units;
   D.   Other similar uses deemed to be compatible to the R-2 zone and adjacent
land uses.
Chapter 17.024 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-3) ZONE
17.024.010 Purpose of zone.
   The multi-family residential or R-3 zone is intended to apply in the areas
of the city where it is reasonable to permit varying intensities of residential
developments.
17.024.020 Permitted uses.
   In the multi-family residential zone the following uses only are permitted
as hereafter specially provided for by this section and subject to the general
provisions and exceptions set forth in Chapters 17.102 and 17.105.
   A.   Single family residences, duplexes, triplexes, apartments of four or
more units, subject to development permit (see
Chapter 17.121).
   B.   Dwelling groups of two or more structures;
   C.   Accessory private lath houses or greenhouses used for the propagating
and cultivating of plants for hobby and home use only.
   D.   Accessory buildings and accessory uses;
   E.   Tree, orchard and vegetable gardening for occupants use only;
   F.   Home occupations (see
Chapter 17.115);
   G.   Short-term rentals and homestays limited to detached single-family
homes (see
Chapter 17.113).
(Ord. O-2019-004 § 3, 2019)
17.024.030 Uses requiring conditional use permit.
   A.   Rooming and boarding houses;
   B.   Condominiums, stock cooperatives, planned unit developments and
community apartments;
   C.   Public utility buildings and structures;
   D.   Public buildings, churches, schools, parks, group care facilities,
playgrounds, hospitals and family care facilities;
   E.   Motels, hotels;
   F.   Other similar uses deemed compatible to the R-3 zone and adjacent land
uses;
   G.   Uses permitted in the R-1 and R-2 zones.
Chapter 17.027 HOTEL-MOTEL AND VISITOR SERVING (R-4) ZONE
17.027.010 Purpose of zone.
   The hotel-motel or R-4 zone is designed to accommodate and cater to the
needs of tourist serving lodging and other facilities.
17.027.020 Permitted uses.
   In the hotel-motel zone the following uses are permitted and are subject to
the general provisions and exceptions set forth in Chapters
17.102 and
17.105:
   A.   Hotels;
   B.   Motels;
   C.   Bed and breakfast inns;
   D.   Restaurants and cocktail lounges associated with restaurants;
   E.   Other visitor-serving commercial uses;
   F.   Vacation rental (see
Chapter 5.22) ;
   G.   Massage establishment–accessory (see
Chapter 5.11);
   H.   Tattoo establishment (see
Chapter 5.11). (Ord. O-2019-006 § 3; 2019: Ord. O-2019-004 § 5, 2019)
17.027.030 Accessory uses permitted as an adjunct to a permitted use.
   Small shops for retail sale of clothing articles, jewelry, souvenirs, books,
magazines, and uses that are similar or accessory to permitted uses and cater
primarily to guests of hotel, motel or restaurant. Specifically, sale of
groceries or frozen food stuffs is not permitted.
17.027.040 Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
   A.   Permitted uses in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 zones;*
   B.   Residential and/or non-visitor-serving commercial uses.*
* These residential and/or non-visitor serving uses may be allowed only if the
applicant can substantially show that the size, shape or location of the parcel
makes it infeasible for a visitor-serving use as stated pursuant to the local
coastal program land use plan and Chapter 17.099. Uses prohibited specifically
from the zone shall include office space for general or medical businesses and
non-retail commercial services.
17.027.050 Visitor serving commercial conversions.
   Conversion of visitor serving lodging in R-4 and R-R zones to non-visitor
serving types of uses shall be prohibited unless the cost of rehabilitation is
greater than fifty percent of the market value of the structure or the city
finds, based upon supporting data, that the existing use can no longer be made
economically viable.
Chapter 17.030 RESORT-RESIDENTIAL (R-R) ZONE
17.030.010 Purpose of zone.
   The resort-residential or R-R zone is intended to apply in those areas of
the city where it is reasonable to permit a mixture of hotels and motels along
with apartments, condominiums and other similar uses.
17.030.020 Permitted uses.
   In the resort-residential or R-R zone the following uses only are permitted
as hereafter specifically provided for by this section and subject to the
general provisions and exceptions set forth in Articles 17.102 and 17.105.
   A.   All permitted uses under R-l, R-2 and R-3 zones;
   B.   Hotels, motels and other R-4 permitted uses, subject to a development
permit (See
Chapter 17.121) found by the planning commission to be compatible and
appropriate in regards to (a) hours of operation; (b) noise; (c) access; (d)
traffic; and (e) scale with the adjoining area;
   C.   Vacation rental (see
Chapter 5.22) ;  
   D.   Check-cashing establishment (see
Chapter 5.11);
   E.   Gold and silver exchange (see
Chapter 5.11);
   F.   Massage establishment–accessory (see
Chapter 5.11);
   G.   Pawn shop (see
Chapter 5.11);
   H.   Resale establishment (see
Chapter 5.11);
   I.   Smoke shop (see
Chapter 5.11);
   J.   Tattoo establishment (see
Chapter 5.11). (Ord. O-2019-006 § 4 (part), 2019: Ord. O- 2019-004 § 6, 2019)
17.030.030 Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
   A.   All conditionally permitted uses in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 zones;
   B.   Dwelling groups;
   C.   Rooming and boarding houses;
   D.   Condominiums, stock cooperatives, Planned Unit Developments and
community apartments;
   E.   Public utility buildings and structures;
   F.   Public buildings, churches, schools, parks, group care facilities,
playgrounds, hospitals and family care facilities;
   G.   Professional office buildings;
   H.   Other similar uses deemed compatible to the R-R zone and adjacent land
uses;
   I.   Massage establishment–primary (see
Chapter 5.11). (Ord. O-2019-006 § 4 (part), 2019)
17.030.040 Visitor serving commercial conversions.
   Conversion of visitor serving lodging in R-4 and R-R zones to non-visitor
serving types of uses shall be prohibited unless the cost of rehabilitation is
greater than fifty percent of the market value of the structure or the city
finds, based upon supporting data, that the existing use can no longer be made
economically viable.
Chapter 17.033 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL (P-R) ZONE
17.033.010 Purpose of zone.
   The planned residential or P-R zone is designed to facilitate greater
flexibility in the development of any area by providing a means for varying
designs and structures best suited to environmentally sensitive locations,
including geologically hazardous or visually sensitive areas, as delineated in
the general plan/local coastal program land use plan. Land in the planned
residential zone shall be subject to the provisions set forth herein.
17.033.015 Permitted uses.
   In the planned residential zone the following uses only are permitted as
hereafter specifically provided for by this section and subject to the general
provisions and exceptions set forth in
Chapters 17.102 and
17.105.
   A.   Short-term rentals and homestays (see
Chapter 17.113).
(Ord. O-2018-006 § 4, 2018)
17.033.020 Uses permitted subject to a conditional use permit.
   Uses permitted in the planned residential zone may include and shall be
limited to:
   A.   Dwelling units in detached, attached or multi-storied structures or any
combination thereof;
   B.   Non-residential uses of a religious, cultural, recreational and
commercial nature to the extent they are designed and intended to serve
primarily the residents of the planned unit development. No commercial use, nor
any building devoted primarily to a commercial use shall be built or
established prior to the occupancy of seventy-five percent of the residential
buildings for which it is designed to serve.
17.033.030 Application for tentative approval of a planned residential
development.
   A.   In order to fulfill the purposes of this chapter, the planning
commission may make such written rules including general procedure and form of
applications as it may determine, provided said rules are not inconsistent
herewith.
   B.   The application for a conditional use permit shall be executed by or on
behalf of the landowner and filed with the public services department.
   C.   The application for a conditional use permit shall include the
following items:
   1.   The location and size of the area involved and the nature of the
landowner's interest in the land proposed to be developed;
   2.   The density of land use to be allocated to parts of the area to be
developed, existing and proposed;
   3.   The location, function, ownership and manner of maintenance of common
open space;
   4.   The use, height, bulk and location of buildings and other structures
and architectural elevations, existing and proposed;
   5.   The coverage of buildings and building areas, existing and proposed;
   6.   The feasibility of proposals for the disposition of sanitary waste and
storm water, existing and proposed;
   7.   The substance of codes, covenants, restrictions, grants or easements or
other restrictions to be imposed upon the use of the land, buildings and
structures including proposed easements for public utilities, existing and
proposed;
   8.   The provisions for parking of vehicles and the location and width of
proposed streets and public ways and the relationship of proposed streets and
other public facilities to similar public facilities in proximity to the
proposed planned residential development, existing and proposed;
   9.   The required modifications in the regulations otherwise applicable to
the subject property;
   10.   In the case of plans which call for development over a period of
years, a phasing plan and development schedule shall be submitted that includes
phasing of all construction of buildings, roads, landscaping, utilities and
other improvements;
   11.   A grading plan showing topography and contour intervals, existing and
proposed;
   12.   Cross-sections of the development;
   13.   Ground cover, landscaping, fencing and screening, existing and
proposed;
   14.   Public services and utilities, existing and proposed;
   15.   Cost/revenue analysis;
   16.   In addition to the subject property, support material for tentative
approval shall also include zoning and land uses for adjacent areas;
   D.   Said application shall be accompanied by detailed written statement by
the landowner setting forth his proposals.
   E.   Every application for a planned residential development shall be
accompanied by exhibits including adequate illustrative and technical data and
criteria to fully express the proposed standard of development. Such exhibits
and standards shall be prepared or endorsed by a person qualified to practice
in the State of California in the architecture, landscape architecture and/or
engineering field or otherwise by persons recognized in the field of site
planning and urban design.
   F.   One copy of the tentative map, site plans and elevations received by
the public services department shall be promptly delivered to other city staff
members for their review and report to the planning commission. As part of its
review, the public services department shall consult to the extent it deems
necessary with the fire, health, building and other departments of the city
and/or county concerning such application.
   G.   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to forbid or discourage
informal consulting between the landowner and the staff of the public services
department prior to the filing of an application for a tentative approval,
provided no statement of representation by a member of the staff shall be
binding upon the planning commission.
17.033.040 Specific plan compliance.
   Development in a P-R zoning district shall comply with standards and
criteria in the General Plan/Local Coastal Plan and any applicable specific
plan for the area in which the development is located. (Ord. O-2013-004, § 1,
2013)
17.033.060 Findings of the planning commission.
   The planning commission, upon conclusion of the hearing or hearings, shall
recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the proposed planned
residential development to the city council for their action and shall adopt
specific development conditions and findings. The findings shall be in writing
and shall include findings of fact setting forth the reasons for recommending
approval or denial of the proposed planned residential development including
but not limited to findings of fact on the following:
   A.   In what respects the plan is or is not consistent with the purposes of
this chapter;
   B.   The extent to which the plan conforms to regulations otherwise
applicable to the subject property, including but not limited to intensity and
compatibility of development;
   C.   The nature and extent of the common open space in the planned unit
development, the provisions for maintenance and conservation of the common open
space, and the adequacy of the amount and function of the open space in terms
of the population densities and dwelling types proposed in the plan;
   D.   The impact of the proposed planned residential development upon the
neighborhood in which the development is proposed to be established;
   E.   The plat of the plan and the manner in which said plat makes adequate
provisions for public services, adequate control over vehicular traffic, and
furthers the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment;
   F.   The sufficiency of the plan to protect the public health, safety and
general welfare; and
   G.   The adequacy of plans for sanitary waste disposal, storm water disposal
and water supply.
   H.   The consistency of the development proposal to the general plan/local
costal plan, applicable specific plans and other city policies and programs.
17.033.070 Findings and recommendation transmittal for city council action.
   The planning commission, within thirty calendar days after adoption of
findings and recommendations as provided in this chapter, shall transmit to the
city council its written findings and recommendations. Planning commission
actions on sites of less than one acre shall not require city council approval
in the planned residential zone.
17.033.080 City council action on proposed planned residential development.
   Upon receiving the findings and recommendations of the planning commission
concerning any planned residential development or an appropriate phase thereof,
the city council shall consider said plans and act thereon in any manner deemed
under the circumstances to vest, promote and protect the public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare of the specific plan area, its environs and the
city.
17.033.110 Termination.
   In any case where the terms of approval of a planned residential
development, or the approved development schedule contained therein, have not
been or are not complied with, the city planner shall give to the landowner
written notice of intention to consider revocation of the approval of the
planned residential development in accordance with the procedures contained in
Chapter 17.121 of this Title.
17.033.120 Site planning standards.
   The standards set forth in this section shall apply to each planned
residential development zone. In its report to the council, the planning
commission may recommend such additional standards as it deems necessary or
desirable in carrying out the general purpose and intent of this article. The
intent of this zone is to encourage and foster sensitive and well-conceived
residential development proposals. The following data shall be provided:
   A.   Plan. The plan may provide for a variety of housing types.
   B.   Lot Area, Coverages, Setbacks. The plan shall follow the criteria
established for lot area, coverages and setbacks in Chapter 17.102.
   C.   Height. The height of buildings shall flexible, utilizing the
limitations established for similar uses by Chapter 17.102 herein as a
guideline for R-1, R-2 and R-3 zones, unless specific standards are identified
in the general plan/local coastal program land use plan. Heights of structures
shall be designed consistent with the efficiency of public services and
protection of public views from designated scenic highways. Furthermore, the
landowner has the burden to show that such height will not have an undue and
adverse impact on the landscape, the value of adjoining property or create
undue costs for the provision or maintenance of existing public facilities or
be prejudicial to a standard of excellence in the form and function of the
planned residential development or to the area as a whole.
   D.   Urban Form. The quality of the physical plan shall demonstrate a
standard of excellence in the grouping of buildings, aesthetic control, a
harmony and compatibility among the several elements; all designed to preserve
the quality of the natural landscape and enhance the quality of the
development.
   E.   Density. The density for any P-R zone shall be within the density range
as provided for by the general plan/local coastal program land use plan. A plan
may provide for higher densities within the range if the planning commission
deems that such higher densities will not have an undue and adverse impact on
the landscape, the zone of visual dominance, the value of adjoining property
and on the reasonable enjoyment and amenities of neighboring property or create
undue costs for the provision or maintenance of public facilities or be
prejudicial to a standards of excellence in the form and function of the
planned residential development or the area as a whole.
   F.   Non-Residential Uses and/or Structures. Non-residential uses of a
religious, educational, recreational or commercial nature shall be designed or
intended primarily for the use of the residents of the planned residential
development. The burden of proof shall be on the applicant appearing at the
public hearings to show that such uses will primarily serve persons residing
inside the planned residential development.
   G.   Separation Between Buildings. The minimum separation between main
buildings in the development, including structures in both residential and non-
residential developments, shall be not less than ten feet.
   H.   Parking. All parking requirements under Chapter 17.108 et seq. of this
Title shall be met.
   I.   Commercial Uses Within Large (two hundred or more dwelling units)
Residential Developments. Where the planned residential development contains
two hundred or more dwelling units or the projected development (based on the
local coastal plan) of surrounding areas together with the number of units
proposed amounts to three hundred or more dwelling units, five percent of the
developable portions of the planned residential unit development may be
permitted to be neighborhood serving commercial uses.
   The commercial uses shall be restricted to those uses permitted in the C-
1 commercial zone, with specific uses within the class of use being approved by
the planning commission. The commercial structure or structures shall be of an
architectural design compatible with that of the nearby dwelling units.
   J.   Open Space. Open space shall comprise at least sixty percent of the
gross lot area less road right-of-ways in low density and medium density zones,
and at least forty percent in high density zones designated for residential
developments. This open space shall be used for recreational or environmental
amenities for collective or private enjoyment by occupants of the development,
but shall not include buildings or structures, public or private streets, or
driveways. Open space shall be organized in an effort to protect views of the
ocean and coastal foothills, as appropriate to the property, based on the
approved specific plan. A maximum of fifty percent of the total required open
space area may be composed of open space on privately owned properties unless a
lower percentage is required in the general plan/local coastal program land use
plan. Every owner of a dwelling unit or lot shall own as an appurtenance to
such dwelling unit or lot an undivided interest in the private common open
space areas and facilities.
   K.   Geologic Report. An engineering geological report shall be prepared and
submitted by a registered engineering geologist including a description of the
geology of the development site, a geologic map and conclusions and
recommendations regarding the effect of geologic conditions and marine
conditions where applicable on the proposed development.
   L.   Public and Private Streets. The location and arrangement of public and
private streets shall provide convenient and safe access to all planned
residential developments.
   M.   Hillside Developments. See Chapter 17.018.
   N.   Title Documents. The adopted final plan shall contain in appropriate
title documents such proposed covenants, deed restrictions, easements and other
provisions relating to bulk, location and density of such residential units,
non-residential uses and public facilities as are necessary to fulfill the
purposes of this article. Said covenants, easements and other provisions, if
part of the plan as finally approved, may be modified, enforced, removed or
released only in accordance with the amendment requirements of the city's
certified local coastal program and with the approval of the city council.
   O.   Phasing. The planning commission may designate divisible geographic
sections of the entire parcel to be developed as a planned residential
development and shall, in such case, specify reasonable periods within which
development of each such section must be completed. The period for completion
of the entire development and commencement date for each section thereof may be
modified from time to time by the planning commission upon the showing of good
cause by the landowner.
   P.   Private Maintenance: Open space, facilities and streets commonly owned
by all residents shall be maintained by a homeowners' association.
17.033.130 Ownership of common open space.
   A.   Except for property offered for dedication and accepted for public
purposes, every owner of a dwelling unit or lot shall own as an appurtenant
right thereto an undivided interest in the common open space and facilities or
a share in a corporation which owns said common open space or a voting
membership in an unincorporated association or organization which owns said
common area and facilities.
   B.   In the event that the organization established to own and maintain
common open space, or any successor organization, shall at any time after
establishment of the planned residential development fail to maintain the
common open space in reasonable order and condition in accordance with the
plan, the city may serve written notice upon such organization or upon the
residents of the planned residential development setting forth the manner in
which the organization has failed to maintain the common open space in
reasonable condition, and said notice shall include a demand that such
deficiencies of maintenance be remedied within thirty days thereof, and shall
state the date and place of a hearing before the city council thereon which
shall be held within fourteen days of notice. At such hearing, the council may
modify the terms of the original notice as to the deficiencies and give an
extension of time within which they shall be remedied. If the deficiencies set
forth in the original notice or in the modifications thereof shall not be
remedied within said thirty days or any extension thereof, the city, in order
to preserve the taxable value of the properties within the planned residential
development and to prevent the common open space from becoming a public
nuisance, may enter upon said common open space and maintain the same for a
period or periods of time as necessary to insure proper maintenance of the
common open space. Said entry and maintenance shall not vest in the public any
rights to use the common open space except when the same is dedicated to the
public by owners. Before the expiration of a period or periods of time as set
by the council, the council shall, upon its initiative or upon the request of
the organization theretofore responsible for the maintenance of the common open
space, call a public hearing upon notice to such organization, or to the
residents of the planned residential development, to be held by the council, at
which hearing such organization or the residents of the planned residential
development shall show cause why such maintenance by the city shall not, at the
election of the council, continue for an additional period or periods of time.
If the council shall determine that such organization is ready and able to
maintain said common open space in reasonable condition, the council shall
cease to maintain said common open space. The council may, at its discretion,
continue to maintain said space, subject to similar hearing and determination
for additional periods of time as deemed necessary thereafter. The cost of such
maintenance by the city shall be assessed against the properties within the
planned residential development that have a right of enjoyment of the common
open space and shall become a tax lien on said properties. The city at the time
of entering upon said common open space for the purpose of maintenance, shall
file a notice of such lien within the planned residential development.
   C.   Every conveyance of a dwelling unit or lot by landowner shall include
by reference the conditions, covenants and restrictions applying to the said
dwelling unit or lot, which shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder, and copies of said provisions shall be furnished to the individual
buyer of said dwelling unit or lot in the development.
   D.   No new dwelling unit or lot shall be sold or encumbered separately from
an interest in the common open space and facilities in the development which
shall be appurtenant to such dwelling unit or lot.
   E.   No dwelling unit or lot in the development shall be sold unless a
corporation, association, property owners' group or similar entity approved by
the planning commission and the council has been formed with the right to
assess to all the properties which are jointly owned with interests in the
common open space and facilities in the development to meet the expenses of
such entity, and with authority to control, and the duty to maintain, all of
said jointly owned common open space. Such entity shall operate under recorded
conditions, covenants and restrictions which shall include compulsory
membership of all owners of dwelling units or lots. The entity shall provide
for flexibility of assessments to meet changing costs of maintenance, repairs
and services. The landowner shall submit evidence of compliance with this
requirement to the city.
   F.   No building permit shall be issued for other than approved model units
until the conveyance for such dwelling unit or lot containing such conditions,
covenants and restrictions as required by this section have been complied with;
provided however that said approved model units shall not be sold or occupied
until the conveyance therefore containing such conditions, covenants and
restrictions as required by this section have been complied with.
17.033.140 Variation from minimum requirements.
   Variation from the minimum requirements of plans hereof may be permitted
when it meets the criteria established by the general plan local coastal
program land use plan. The approval of any vote of the planning commission may
be made upon the finding that such variation will produce any one or more of
the following results:
   A.   The requirements of the general plan/local coastal program land use
plan would be more effectively met through varied standards;
   B.   Reduce the area and unsightliness of cut and fill banks;
   C.   Reduce the danger of erosion;
   D.   Enhance community environment through dedication of public areas,
arrangement of lot sizes and landscaping;
   E.   Better protection of scenic views; and
   F.   Maximized protection of natural resources.
Chapter 17.036 COMMERCIAL RECREATION (C-R) ZONE
17.036.010 Purpose of zone.
   The commercial recreation or C-R zone is intended to be applied to
recreational vehicle parks. (Refer to Ord. #79.)
17.036.020 Permitted uses.
   Uses in this zone are subject to the general provisions and exceptions set
forth in Articles 17.102, 17.105 and 17.121 and are as follows:
   A.   Recreational trailer/vehicle parks;
   B.   Related accessory uses.
17.036.030 Uses requiring conditional use permits.
   The following uses associated with or supported by the primary uses intended
within this zone shall be allowed providing a conditional use permit is
obtained. Such uses include but are not limited to the following:
   A.   Storage yard for recreational equipment;
   B.   Recreational facilities;
   C.   Visitor-serving establishments;
   D.   Other related uses when in the determination of the planning commission
it can be found that those uses are typically associated with the primary use
of the zone.
17.036.040 Development standards.
   Development for the purpose of recreational travel/vehicle parks shall meet
the requirements of city ordinances and resolutions and related guidelines.
Chapter 17.039 MOBILE HOME (M-H) ZONE
17.039.010 Purpose of zone.
   The mobile home or M-H zone is intended to apply to mobile home parks and
mobile home subdivisions. (Refer to Ord. #79).
17.039.020 Permitted uses.
   Uses in this zone are subject to the general provisions and exceptions set
forth in Chapters 17.102, 17.105 and 17.121 and are as follows:
   A.   Mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions;
   B.   Modular or manufactured housing subdivisions; and
   C.   Related accessory uses.
17.039.030 Uses requiring conditional use permits.
   The following uses associated with or supported by the primary uses intended
within this zone shall be allowed providing a conditional use permit is
obtained. Such uses shall include but not be limited to the following:
   A.   Storage yard for recreational equipment;
   B.   Recreational facilities;
   C.   Other related uses when in the determination of the planning commission
it can be found that these uses are associated with the primary use of the
zone.
17.039.040 Development standards.
   Development for the purpose of recreational travel/vehicle parks shall meet
the requirements of city ordinances and resolutions and related guidelines.
Chapter 17.042 RETAIL COMMERCIAL (C-1) ZONE
17.042.010 Purpose of zone.
   The retail commercial or C-1 zone is intended to provide:
   A.   Appropriately located areas and opportunities for retail store, offices
and service establishments for the convenience of the public in order to
encourage mutually beneficial relationship to each other.
   B.   Stable, attractive commercial development which will afford a pleasant
pedestrian shopping environment.
   C.   Adequate space for off-street parking and loading.
17.042.020 Permitted uses.
   Uses in the C-1 zone are subject to the general provisions and exceptions
set forth in Chapters 17.102, 17.105 and 17.121 and are as follows:
   A.   Retail stores, offices and service establishments which do not involve
any kind of manufacturing and all retail outlets except those restricted to the
C-2 and C-M zones. Examples of permitted uses include but are not limited to
the following: antique shops, art studios, bakeries, grocery stores, drug
stores, banks, offices, indoor theaters, laundromats, restaurants and similar
retail, office or service uses.
   B.   Uses and structures which are incidental or accessory to any of the
permitted uses in the C-1 zone.
   C.   Affordable housing as a secondary use (i.e., upper floors of C-
1 buildings);
   D.   Vacation rental in existing residence; in new units, vacation rental
shall only be a secondary use (i.e., second floor or rear of C-1 buildings in
conjunction with a permitted business) ;  
   E.   Check-cashing establishment (see
Chapter 5.11);
   F.   Gold and silver exchange (see
Chapter 5.11);
   G.   Massage establishment–accessory (see
Chapter 5.11);
   H.   Pawn shop (see
Chapter 5.11);
   I.   Resale establishment (see
Chapter 5.11);
   J.   Smoke shop (see
Chapter 5.11);
   K.   Tattoo establishment (see
Chapter 5.11). (Ord. O-2019-006 § 5 (part), 2019: Ord. O- 2019-004 § 7, 2019:
Ord. O-2015-006 § 2 (part), 2015: Ord. O-2014-005 § 2 (part), 2014)
17.042.030 Uses requiring conditional use permits.
   A.   Public parking lots (see Chapter 17.108);
   B.   Public and private parks, playgrounds, and other recreational
facilities;
   C.   Service stations (see also Section
17.105.100);
   D.   Major medical facilities;
   E.   Public buildings, churches and schools;
   F.   Lodges and fraternal organizations;
   G.   Billiards, bowling alleys, miniature golf courses and skating rinks;
   H.   Amusement halls and arcades spaced at least five hundred feet apart
from any other amusement hall, arcade or adult business or R-1, R-2, R-3, MH or
P-R zones (See Chapter 17.068 of this Title);
   I.   Outdoor retail sales and services other than those permitted by this
chapter, such as plant nurseries, pottery shops, etc., but not including uses
restricted to the C-2 and C-M zones;
   J.   Apartments as secondary uses (i.e., second floor or rear of C-
1 buildings in conjunction with a permitted business);
   K.   Uses allowed by overlay zones, if applicable, (i.e., visitor-serving
overlay zone);
   L.   Hotels and motels;
   M.   Indoor auto, boat and similar sales;
   N.   Other similar uses deemed compatible by the planning commission;
   O.   Massage establishment–primary (see
Chapter 5.11). (Ord. O-2019-006 § 5 (part), 2019)
Chapter 17.045 GENERAL COMMERCIAL (C-2) ZONE
17.045.010 Purpose of zone.
   The general commercial or C-2 zone is intended to be applied to areas of the
city which provide appropriate locations for commercial activities not suited
to other zones.
17.045.020 Permitted uses.
   Uses in the C-2 zone are subject to the general provisions and exceptions
set forth in Chapters 17.102, 17.105 and 17.121 and are as follows:
   A.   All primary permitted uses in the C-1 zone;
   B.   Auditoriums, exclusive of tents or temporary structures;
   C.   Outdoor auto, boat and trailer sales, new and used, providing the
entire area of the premises is surfaced with an approved surface and is
landscaped pursuant to the standards of Chapter 17.108;
   D.   Automobile repair garages, including major repair (see also Chapter
17.105.100);
   E.   Adult businesses (See Section
17.105.153, Adult businesses);
   F.   Examples of other permitted include, but are not limited to the
following: automobile supply stores, blueprint and photostat shops,
professional and trade schools, electrical, plumbing and air conditioning
shops, sheet metal shops and laundry establishments.
   G.   Uses and structures which are incidental or accessory to any of the
uses permitted in the zone.
   H.   Check-cashing establishment (see
Chapter 5.11);
   I.   Gold and silver exchange (see
Chapter 5.11);
   J.   Massage establishment–accessory (see
Chapter 5.11);
   K.   Pawn shop (see
Chapter 5.11);
   L.   Resale establishment (see
Chapter 5.11);
   M.   Smoke shop (see
Chapter 5.11);
   N.   Tattoo establishment (see
Chapter 5.11). (Ord. O-2019-006 § 6 (part), 2019: Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A
(part)), 2005: Ord. 04-010 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.045.030 Uses requiring conditional use permits.
   A.   Outdoor theaters;
   B.   Carnivals;
   C.   Crematoriums;
   D.   Equipment rental; and
   E.   Public utility buildings and substations;
   F.   All uses conditionally permitted in the C-1 zone with a Conditional Use
Permit;
   G.   Massage establishment–primary (see
Chapter 5.11). (Ord. O-2019-006 § 6 (part), 2019: Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A
(part)), 2005: Ord. 04-010 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004)
Chapter 17.048 COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING (C-M) ZONE
17.048.010 Purpose of zone.
   The commercial manufacturing or C-M zone is designed to accommodate non-
polluting light manufacturing and light industrial uses in planned industrial
parks.
17.048.020 Permitted uses.
   Uses in the C-M zone are subject to the general provisions and exceptions
set forth in Chapters 17.102, 17.105 and 17.121 and are as follows:
   A.   Electronics manufacturing;
   B.   Corporate offices;
   C.   Blacksmithing;
   D.   Welding shops;
   E.   Cold storage facilities;
   F.   Building material outlets;
   G.   Small food processing plants;
   H.   Light manufacturing;
   I.   Fabrication, assembly, component manufacturing or small part processing
business;
   J.   Indoor warehousing and storage yards;
   K.   Mini-storage buildings;
   L.   Other similar uses deemed compatible by the planning commission.
Chapter 17.051 OPEN SPACE--NATURAL RESOURCES PROTECTION (OS-1) ZONE
17.051.010 Purpose of zone.
   The open space--natural resources protection or OS-1 zone is established to
implement the intent and recommendations and requirements of the environmental
issues section of the general plan/local coastal program land use plan. This
zone is also established to protect the city's natural resources as identified
in the general plan/local coastal program land use plan through the use of open
space.
17.051.015 Permitted uses.
   In the open space—natural resources protection zone the following uses only
are permitted as hereafter specifically provided for by this section and
subject to the general provisions and exceptions set forth in
Chapters 17.102 and
17.105.
   A.   Short-term rentals and homestays (see
Chapter 17.113).
(Ord. O-2018-006 § 5, 2018)
17.051.020 Conditionally permitted uses, criteria and standards.
   A.   It is the intent of this zone to provide for natural open space and the
protection of environmentally sensitive habitats in selected areas of the city
with a minimum of structural improvements in these areas. Examples of such uses
shall include but not be limited to greenbelts for the protection of scenic
resources, facilities for wildlife habitat, groundwater retention basins,
erosion control and passive recreational uses. Protection of environmentally
sensitive habitats through the use of this zone shall conform to the resource
management guidelines established by Public Resources Code Sections 30233,
30236, and 30240 so as to site and design permitted uses in the least
environmentally damaging method available. All such uses in this zone are
subject to a condition use permit.
   B.   Areas designated in the general plan/local coastal program land use
plan as significant natural resource areas shall not be developed in any manner
if potential impacts to a designated significant resource cannot be adequately
mitigated.
   C.   The butterfly habitat located at the state park property shall not be
altered or removed in any way except when posing a serious threat to life or
property.
   D.   Any form of development adjacent to the critical area of the butterfly
habitat at the state park property shall have a minimum setback of fifty feet
from the habitat area or as otherwise provided in the general plan/local
coastal program land use plan.
   E.   All development, including dredging, filling, grading, channelizations,
dams or other substantial alterations within stream and riparian corridors
shall incorporate the best mitigation measures feasible and shall be limited
to:
   1.   Water supply projects;
   2.   Flood control projects where no other method for protecting existing
structures in the floodplain is feasible and where such protection is necessary
for public safety or to protect existing development; or
   3.   Developments where the primary function is the improvement of fish and
wildlife habitat.
   F.   All permitted construction and grading within creek corridors and
riparian creek corridors shall be carried out in such a manner as to minimize
impacts from increased run-off, sedimentation, biochemical degradation or
thermal pollution.
   G.   No land divisions within environmentally sensitive habitat areas shall
be permitted, nor shall any parcel be created from an existing parcel whose
only buildable area would be located in an environmentally sensitive habitat
area or adjacent buffer area.
17.051.030 Alternative residential use for property with demonstrated economic
feasibility problems.
   A.   If a private owner of real property lot or parcel demonstrates to the
city's satisfaction that the non-structural open space uses allowed in Section
17.051.020 above do not permit a feasible and beneficial use of the property,
the property owner may apply for a conditional use permit application to
construct one residential unit only on said property. For the purposes of this
section, "feasible" shall be as defined in Section
17.006.0450; and "beneficial" use means a use which produces favorable and
advantageous results, both social and economic, consistent with the advancing
the goals, policies and programs of the certified LCP.
   B.   The minimum development standards for any such residence shall be:
   1.   No more than sixty percent, or five thousand s.f. of the lot or parcel,
whichever is the least, shall be utilized for residential uses including
buildings, parking, landscaping, gardening, outdoor living and other uses.
   2.   The height of any structure shall not exceed fifteen feet above natural
grade and no portion of any structure shall obscure the view of the ocean
downward from the level of the freeway sight position as defined in Section
17.096.020 of the zoning ordinance. The applicant shall submit, with the
application for a conditional use permit, a visual analysis of the proposed
project from the vantage point of the freeway sight position. This analysis
shall depict the effects of the proposed project on the ocean viewshed as seen
from designated Scenic Highway 101. Using the freeway sight position as the
viewing point, the analysis shall draw a plane downward over the project site
toward the ocean and shall include the entire ocean view.
   The survey shall include a cross section and elevation of the property and
proposed structures viewing the proposal from Highway 101. If the analysis
demonstrates that any of the existing ocean view is obstructed, but the city
finds that the lot would be unbuildable with the application of these
standards, then the city may approve a project which minimizes the ocean view
obstruction, consistent with this section.
   3.   Unit size shall not exceed sixty percent of the lot's area square
footage, or two thousand square feet, whichever is smaller.
   4.   A permanent open space easement shall be recorded over any portion of
the development not occupied by a structure or driveway or the residential
living area of B(1) above.
   5.   Subject to architectural review and approval with particular attention
to amelioration of structural features which adversely impact the areas and
resources described in Section
17.051.020 above.
   6.   All landscape and irrigation plans shall be reviewed and approved by
the city parks, recreation and beautification committee prior to the issuance
of building permits. In addition to all other applicable landscaping
requirements, the applicant shall utilize drought tolerant plants native to the
central coast to the maximum extent feasible, and shall use species which at
maturity will not impair views of the ocean as established pursuant to
subsection (2) above. Future changes to the landscaping on site shall conform
to this section and shall be reviewed and approved in advance of planting by
the community development director.
   C.   The private owner of an open space lot or parcel entitled to build one
residence thereon pursuant to this Section
17.051.030 may request the city to "transfer" entitlement to other property in
the city pursuant to said policy provided that a condition of any such transfer
shall be a requirement that the open space parcel be dedicated to the city for
open space purpose only, either in fee or subject to a permanent open space
easement as authorized by State Law.
   The city may, of its sole discretion, approve or deny said request. For all
such density transfers which are approved, the city and the property owner
shall execute a recordable development agreement specifying all terms and
conditions of the agreement.
Chapter 17.054 OPEN SPACE--RECREATIONAL USE (OS-R) ZONE
17.054.010 Purpose of zone.
   The open space-recreational use or OS-R zone is established to implement the
intent, recommendations and requirements of the general plan/local coastal
program land use plan. It is the intent of this zone to provide areas of
recreational uses. All uses in this zone are subject to a conditional use
permit.
17.054.020 Conditionally permitted uses.
   Examples of conditionally permitted uses include but are not limited to:
   A.   Passive recreational uses including but not limited to:
   1.   Walking trails;
   2.   Non-permanent benches set on grade;
   3.   Sun bathing; and,
   4.   Other similar uses
   B.   Active recreational uses including but not limited to:
   1.   Multi-purpose parks;
   2.   Golf courses;
   3.   Tennis courts and other play courts;
   4.   Gazebos; and,
   5.   Other similar uses.
   C.   All other similar uses consistent with the requirements of the general
plan/local coastal program land use plan.
17.054.030 Criteria and standards.
   All activities which have the potential to damage or destroy the
environmental resources in the OS-R zone shall be prohibited unless
specifically permitted by the permit issuing agency with provisions for
adequately protecting any environmental resources.
17.054.040 Alternative residential use for property with demonstrated economic
feasibility problems.
   A.   If an owner of real property lot or parcel demonstrates to the city's
satisfaction that the non-structural open space uses allowed in Section
17.054.020 above do not permit a feasible and beneficial use of the property,
the city will accept and process a conditional use permit application to
construct one residential unit only on said property.
   B.   The minimum development standards for any such residence shall be:
   1.   No more than eighty percent, or five thousand s.f. of the lot or
parcel, whichever is the least, shall be utilized for residential uses
including buildings, parking, landscaping, gardening, outdoor living and other
uses;
   2.   Building height shall be no greater than fifteen feet and shall comply
with all general plan standards;
   3.   Unit size shall not exceed sixty percent of the lot's area square
footage, or two thousand square feet, whichever is smaller;
   4.   A permanent open space easement shall be recorded over any portion of
the development not occupied by a structure or driveway or the residential
living area of B(1) above;
   5.   Subject to architectural review and approval with particular attention
to amelioration of structural features which adversely impact the areas and
resources described in Section
17.054.020 above;
   6.   Subject to review and approval of project landscaping by the parks,
recreation and beautification commission.
   C.   If the city has adopted an applicable transfer of density rights
policy, the owner of an open space lot or parcel entitled to build one
residence thereon pursuant to this Section
17.054.040 may request the city to transfer entitlement to other property in
the city pursuant to said policy provided that a condition of any such transfer
shall be a requirement that the open space parcel be dedicated to the city for
open space purpose only, either in fee or subject to a permanent open space
easement as authorized by State Law.
   The city may, of its sole discretion, approve or deny said request. For all
such density transfers which are approved, the city and the property owner
shall execute a recordable development agreement specifying all terms and
conditions of the agreement.
Chapter 17.057 GOVERNMENT (G) ZONE
17.057.010 Purpose of zone.
   The government or G zone is intended to be applied in those areas of the
city where it is reasonable to permit governmentally owned (federal, state,
county or political subdivision) uses.
17.057.020 Permitted uses.
   In the government zone, the following uses are permitted:
   A.   Public buildings;
   B.   Schools;
   C.   Parks, playgrounds;
   D.   Hospitals;
   E.   Family care facilities;
   F.   Public parking lots and garages;
   G.   Outdoor recreational facilities;
   H.   Public facilities.
17.057.030 Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
   A.   All semi-public owned or operated uses by non-profit organizations;
   B.   Publicly subsidized low-cost housing;
   C.   Visitor serving commercial uses of publicly owned parcels may be
permitted if the land use plan includes site specific standards governing
public parking, setbacks, heights of structures, open space, and the mixes of
visitor serving uses on the subject parcels. These standards shall be
incorporated into the land use plan pursuant to the local coastal program
procedure.
   D.   Other similar uses deemed to be compatible to the G zone by the
planning commission.
   All permitted and conditionally permitted uses on publicly owned lands shall
be limited to those which are: (1) operated on a non-profit basis; (2) provide
educational or health care services; or (3) provide recreational or visitor
serving opportunities.
Chapter 17.060 ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF OVERLAY ZONES
17.060.010 Establishment and designation of overlay zones.
   The following overlay zones are hereby established:
   A.   Archaeology and historic sites (A) overlay zone (Chapter 17.063);
   B.   Coastal access (AC) overlay zone (Chapter 17.066);
   C.   Amusement hall/retail commercial (AH/C-1) overlay zone (Chapter
17.068);
   D.   Architectural review (AR) overlay zone (Chapter 17.069);
   E.   Coastal appeal (CA) overlay zone (Chapter 17.072);
   F.   Floodplain (F) overlay zone (Chapter 17.075);
   G.   Hazards and protection (H) overlay zone (Chapter 17.078);
   H.   Height limitations (HL) overlay zone (Chapter 17.081);
   I.   Noise (N) overlay zone (Chapter 17.084);
   J.   Open space (OS-2) overlay zone (Chapter 17.087);
   K.   Public or visitor parking (P) overlay zone (Chapter 17.090);
   L.   Transfer density (TD) overlay zone (Chapter 17.093);
   M.   View considerations (V) overlay zone (Chapter 17.096);
   N.   Visitor services (VS) overlay zone (Chapter 17.099).
17.060.020 General purpose of overlay zones.
   Overlay zones have been established by the city of Pismo Beach for the
purpose of ensuring maintenance of the goals, policies and programs adopted in
the general plan/local coastal program land use plan. In some cases, overlay
zones direct or require actions for areas adjacent to or outside of the
specified overlay zone. In other cases, overlay zones may require special city
actions only if certain code guidelines are not met. Overlay zones are not
primary zone classifications or districts but rather are supplemental to the
primary zone classification and requirements. The criteria established in an
overlay zone will augment or clarify specific requirements of the primary zone
classification and general code limitations.
Chapter 17.063 ARCHAEOLOGY--HISTORIC SITES (A) OVERLAY LONE
17.063.010 Purpose of zone.
   The archaeology--historic sites (A) overlay zone is established to preserve,
protect and maintain land and water areas, structures and other sites which
have significant historical, archaeological or cultural importance and provide
for the designation of areas which may be of unique value for scientific or
educational purposes.
17.063.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   This zone shall include:
   1.   Structures, land, areas and improvements as described and included in
the cultural resources section of the general plan/local coastal program land
use plan as well as any additional land, areas, structures and improvements
which may be designated by the city as being of historical significance; and
   2.   All known archaeological sites on file with the public services
department, as well as any additional sites that may be established by a
qualified archaeologist recognized by the State Historic Preservation Office.
   B.   An archaeological surface survey of each site shall be conducted by a
qualified archaeologist as a condition of development review for any proposed
project within the archaeology-historic sites overlay zone in areas of unknown
significance based upon a written determination of the public services
department. The results of this survey shall be submitted as a part of the
development application. Included with this survey will be an evaluation as to
the presence of cultural resources based on supportable evidence and shall also
include appropriate mitigation measures, as necessary, for the project. Any
site which is surveyed pursuant to the requirements of this ordinance shall not
be required to be further surveyed unless specified by the findings of the
survey.
   C.   Since it is reasonably possible that archaeological or historical
materials may be discovered in any area of the city, the following standard
condition shall be applied to all developments:
   "In the event of the unforeseen encounter of subsurface materials suspected
to be of an archaeological or paleontological nature, all grading or excavation
shall cease in the immediate area, and the find left untouched until a
qualified professional archaeologist or paleontologist, whichever is
appropriate, is contacted and called in to evaluate and make recommendations as
to disposition, mitigation and/or salvage. The developer shall be liable for
costs associated with the professional investigation."
   D.1. Any mitigation measures Included in archaeological studies shall be
appropriately incorporated into the design of the project, including
construction techniques which will minimize impact to the archaeological
resources.
   2.   Where damage or destruction of archaeological resources stemming from
development of recognized site cannot be completely avoided or mitigated the
developer shall be responsible to develop and preserve the most complete
archaeological record of the site possible for future analysis using the most
current archaeological methods available.
   E.   All non-structural development which has the potential to damage or
destroy archaeological resources are prohibited unless specifically permitted
by the permit issuing agency with provisions for adequately protecting any
archaeological resources. Such activities shall include but not be limited to:
off-road vehicle activity and the unauthorized collection of artifacts.
   F.   Where feasible, structures which are deemed by the city to be of
historical significance shall be protected and rehabilitated. When appropriate,
such structures may be relocated to another approved site in Pismo Beach, such
as the Price Adobe Historical Park.
   G.   The transfer of any city-owned properties containing known significant
archaeological or historical resources must be accompanied by a deed
restriction containing provisions protecting the archaeological or historical
resources on the site.
   H.   Any archaeological or historical sites of state-wide significance shall
be nominated for inclusion in the Registry of California Historic Landmarks.
Those of national significance shall be nominated for inclusion in the National
Registry of Historic Place and the National Historic Program. Such sites shall
be adequately protected.
   I.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be relevant goals,
policies and programs of the general program land use plan.
Chapter 17.066 COASTAL ACCESS (AC) OVERLAY ZONE
17.066.010 Purpose of zone.
   The coastal access (AC) overlay zone is intended to carry out the
requirements a of Section 4 of Article X of the California Constitution to
ensure the public's right to gain access from the nearest public roadway to the
shoreline, unless access is inconsistent with agricultural use, public safety,
military security needs or protection of fragile coastal resources. In
implementing public access policies applicable to developments in the
California Coastal Act and the city of Pismo Beach local coastal program,
vertical and lateral accessways shall be required as a condition of development
pursuant to the requirements of the certified local coastal program land use
plan.
17.066.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   Public access, where required by the general plan/local coastal plan,
shall be provided to the coast through public easements, deed restrictions,
stairways, public parking, lateral accesses or bluff accesses, whichever is
appropriate to the specific planning area's needs, and shall be required of new
development pursuant to the requirements of the certified local coastal program
land use plan.
   B.   For all new developments between the first public road and the ocean,
the owner shall grant a lateral easement along the shoreline for public access
per the requirements of subsections A and B of this section.
   C.   Lateral accessway dedication of the area between the toe of the bluff
and the mean high tide line shall be required. These accessways should not
extend further landward than the foot of an existing shoreline protective
device nor shall any access path be closer than ten feet to any residence or
five feet to any motel room.
   D.   All dry sandy beach, intertidal and subtidal areas seaward of the toe
of the bluff shall be dedicated to the State Department of Parks and Recreation
or other appropriate public agency. If no lateral sandy beach access is
available, a lateral easement of no less than twenty-five feet in width shall
be granted at or near the blufftops, unless a greater lateral easement is
required per the city's land use plan. Existing single family lots as of
January 23, 1981, or homes on any blufftop are excluded from the requirement of
providing any lateral blufftop easements.
   E.   A public boardwalk shall be incorporated into any new development along
the beachfront from Pomeroy Street to the Pismo Creek Trail. The boardwalk
shall be designated as a public easement and shall be required to be improved
or maintained as a part of any development proposal adjacent to this area.
   F.   Development adjacent to or over publicly owned properties (i.e., via
air space rights) may be required for the renovation, enlargement and
maintenance of the downtown commercial core. Provisions for greater and
expanded coastal access for the public shall be provided through the provision
of public paths, stairways, public parking and similar visitor serving
facilities (refer to Section
17.057.030).
   G.   Commercial uses utilizing airspace over publicly owned lands and the
pier shall be limited to visitor serving uses to enhance the downtown
waterfront area pursuant to the policies and programs of the certified local
coastal program land use plan (refer to Section
17.057.030).
   H.   Public access from the nearest roadway to the shoreline and along the
beach shall be provided in new developments except where protection of
environmentally sensitive habitats prohibits such access or adequate public
access exists nearby unless impacts associated with the accessway are
adequately mitigated.
   I.   Public access to and along the beach may not be required if such access
would be detrimental to sensitive tidal or subtidal areas or where construction
of public accessways would increase erosion hazards or other safety hazards or
environmental degradation, unless impacts associated with the accessway are
adequately mitigated.
   J.   Vertical accessways as required in the general plan/local coastal
program land use plan are required within each shoreline planning area. This
access shall be from the first public roadway to the shoreline (or bluff edge
if access is required to reach a blufftop viewing area). Vertical accessways
within existing or proposed developments or subdivisions should be a minimum of
ten feet in width and no access path shall be sited closer than ten feet to any
existing or proposed residential structure(s) or five feet to any motel room
(s).
   K.   An in-lieu fee or dedication of public vertical access may be required
as a condition of development applications within the area of this overlay zone
if it is infeasible to provide public access on the property for the purpose of
providing nearby access.
   L.   Accessways along the creek areas shall be required consistent with the
provisions of the general plan/local coastal program land use plan.
   M.   Public parking shall be required in conjunction with vertical and
lateral accessways pursuant to the general plan/local coastal program land use
plan. The number of spaces shall be determined by the relevant sections of the
general plan/local coastal program land use plan and shall be based on safety
considerations, carrying capacity of the beach, view potential or other
pertinent considerations.
   N.   Dedicated accessways shall not be required to be opened to public use
until a public agency, private association or property owner(s) agrees to
accept responsibility for maintenance and/or liability of the accessway, unless
such accessways are created by the recordation of a deed restriction, wherein
the fee title owner of the property shall be responsible for the maintenance
and liability of the accessway. Existing accessways being offered for
dedication or easement shall not be closed prior to the acceptance of said
dedication or easement.
   O.   Coastal Dependent Development.
   1.   General. Pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 3 of the Coastal Act,
commencing with Section 30200, Coastal dependent development shall have
priority over other developments on or near the shoreline consistent with the
land use and zoning district designations of the city's certified local coastal
program. In addition, it shall be the responsibility of the city of Pismo Beach
to implement the basic goals of the State of California as set forth in the
Coastal Act including the public's constitutional right of access to and along
the coastal zone. In carrying out this responsibility, the city shall encourage
the utilization of innovative access management techniques. Furthermore, the
California legislature has found and declared that it is necessary to locate
coastal dependent developments in the coastal zone in order to ensure that
inland as well as coastal resources are preserved and that orderly economic
development proceeds within the state.
   2.   Protection. Subject to the standards of Public Resources Code Section
30235, structures such as, but not limited to, breakwaters, groins and seawalls
shall be permitted to serve or protect coastal dependent uses and existing
structures in danger of erosion pursuant to the standard of said section.
   3.   Restoration: In an effort to improve the overall quality of the coastal
zone environment, the city shall protect, maintain, enhance and restore the
natural and manmade resources of the coastal zone, subject to the standards and
limitations of the certified local coastal program. Restoration of coastal
dependent uses must be carried out pursuant to the requirements of the
certified local coastal program including but not limited to Chapter 17.078.060
of this article.
   P.   For detailed location and standards for accessways, see the specific
planning areas and recreation and access element of the general plan/local
coastal program land use plan.
   Q.   Development permitted in the areas specified in the local coastal
program land use plan for public beach access or recreation shall be limited to
structures and facilities designs to accommodate passive recreational use of
the area, including but not limited to stairways, benches, tables, refuse
containers, bicycle racks and public parking facilities. In no case shall any
development except public access paths and public stairways be permitted within
the bluff retreat setbacks identified in site specific geological studies.
   R.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
Chapter 17.068 AMUSEMENT HALL/RETAIL COMMERCIAL (AH/C-1) OVERLAY ZONE
17.068.010 Purpose of zone.
   The amusement hall/retail commercial or AH/C-1 overlay zone is established
to control the placement and conduct of new and existing amusement halls in
retail commercial (C-1) zones.
17.068.020 Criteria and standards.
   1.   The establishment, placement or operation of a new amusement hall as
defined in Section
17.006.0063 is hereby prohibited within the AH/C-1 overlay zone and no existing
amusement hall in said overlay zone shall be expanded or permitted to install
additional amusement devices.
   2.   The continuing operation of any existing amusement hall within the AH/
C-1 overlay zone shall be subject to the provisions of City Ordinance #301,
including, without limitation, requirements for licensing and adult supervision
set forth in said ordinance.
   3.   The location of two or fewer city licensed mechanical amusement devices
per each licensed business shall be exempted from the prohibitions of this
overlay zone.
   4.   The boundaries of the AH/C-1 overlay zone shall be limited to the
districts identified in the AH/C-1 overlay zone map.
   5.   All amusement halls in C-1 or C-2 zones outside the boundaries of the
AH/C-1 overlay zone shall be located a minimum of five hundred feet from any R-
1, R-2, R-3, MH or P-R zone and a minimum of five hundred feet from any other
amusement hall or adult business.
   6.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
Chapter 17.069 ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (AR) OVERLAY ZONE
17.069.010 Purpose of zone.
   The architectural review (AR) overlay zone is intended to maintain and
enhance the character, integrity and visual quality of designated planning
areas, as well as the protection of significant public views and vistas from
major public view corridors on city-designated scenic highways, public lands
and water to and along the coast within the city's coastal plan/local coastal
program land use plan. Due to the generality of this overlay zone, no map is
provided.
17.069.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   All developments on lots of a size less than five thousand sq. ft. in
area shall be subject to architectural review by the planning division staff.
   B.   All developments that exceed recommended total building area guidelines
as identified in Section
17.102.090 shall require architectural review for compatibility with the site
and adjacent area.
   C.   The community development department/planning division staff and
planning commission shall review these developments to ensure the construction
of appropriate size structures which are compatible with the adjacent
structures and immediate neighborhood and visual quality of the planning area.
   D.   Development reviewed by the community development department shall not
receive final approval or become final until ratified by action of the planning
commission on the consent agenda, including the negative declaration.
   E.   All development on properties in excess of a fifteen percent slope
located within the viewshed of Hwy. 1 and Price Canyon Road and all other
developments on properties with slopes in excess of twenty percent shall be
reviewed by the community development department and planning commission.
   F.   The community development department and the planning commission shall
review all proposed homes adjacent to the rock outcrop at Boosinger Park to
ensure that they enhance visual quality while minimizing alterations to the
rock outcrops.
   G.   All developments on parcels zoned other than R-l or R-2 shall require
architectural review as a part of their local permit processing with the
exception of additions of fifty percent or less of the existing building area
for single family residential in a R-1, R-2 or R-3, R-R and R-4 zones and
single-family residential development in C-1 zones. All actions taken under
this overlay zone shall be consistent with the relevant goals, policies and
programs of the general plan/local coastal program land use plan.
Chapter 17.072 COASTAL APPEAL (CA) OVERLAY ZONE
17.072.010 Purpose of zone.
   The coastal appeal (CA) overlay zone is intended to specify the area subject
to coastal appeal and the grounds for appeal of an action taken by the city on
a coastal development application. The procedures for appeals of coastal
development permit applications are described in Chapter 17.124. The coastal
appeal overlay zone is to be used in conjunction with other overlay zones and
pertinent sections of this Title.
17.072.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   The coastal appeal zone shall include the land between the sea and the
first public road paralleling the sea or within three hundred feet of the
inland extent of any beach or of the mean high tide line of the sea where there
is no beach, whichever is the greater distance (PRC Sec. 30603 (A.1) or within
one hundred feet of any stream, wetland, estuary or on any tidelands or public
trust lands.
   B.   After certification of the local coastal program, an action taken by
the city of Pismo Beach on a coastal development permit application may be
appealed to the coastal commission for only the following types of development:
   1.   Developments approved by the city of Pismo Beach between the sea and
the first public road paralleling the sea or within three hundred feet of the
inland extent of any beach or of the mean high tide line of the sea where there
is no beach, whichever is the greater distance;
   2.   Developments approved by the city of Pismo Beach not included within
paragraph (1) above located on tidelands, submerged lands, public trust lands,
within one hundred feet of any wetland, estuary, stream, or within three
hundred feet of the top of the seaward face of any coastal bluff;
   3.   Developments approved by the city of Pismo Beach not included within
paragraphs (1) and (2) above that are located in an environmentally sensitive
habitat area;
   4.   Any development which constitutes a major public works project or a
major energy facility.
   C.   The grounds for appeal pursuant to paragraph (B)(1) above shall be
limited to one or more of the following allegations:
   1.   The development fails to provide adequate physical access for public or
private commercial use or interferes with such uses;
   2.   The development fails to protect public views from designated scenic
highways or from a recreational area to, and along, the coast;
   3.   The development is not compatible with the established physical scale
of the area;
   4.   The development may significantly alter existing natural landforms;
   5.   The development does not comply with shoreline erosion and geologic
setback requirements.
   D.   The grounds for an appeal pursuant to paragraph (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)
(4) of this section shall be limited to an allegation that the development does
not conform to the city's certified local coastal program.
   E.   Any action described in subsection (B) above shall become final after
the tenth working day, unless an appeal is filed within that time.
Chapter 17.075 FLOODPLAIN (F) OVERLAY ZONE
17.075.010 Purpose of zone.
   The floodplain (F) overlay zone is intended to restrict, prohibit or
condition development within hazardous floodplain areas to assure that the type
and intensity of use are consistent with the protection and preservation of
people, property and significant resources. This zone includes those areas
where grading of land may endanger public health and safety due to erosion and
those areas possibly subject to flooding or inundation from stormwater.
17.075.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.1. Where permitted consistent with Section
17.075.020.4 below, any proposed development within the (F) overlay zone must
submit proof at the time of application to the city, that their project
complies with FEMA regulations for construction within one hundred year flood
zone boundaries, and finished floor elevations are one foot above the projected
one hundred-year flood line, or submit engineering data guaranteeing that the
property is outside the one hundred year flood plain.
   2.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
(A)(1), the city engineer shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize the best
base flood data available from any source: Federal, State or other; such as
high water mark(s), floods of record, or private engineering reports, in order
to administer the standards of this overlay zone and provide the developer with
an estimated based flood elevation. When uses are subject to potential
flooding, but adequate data does not exist, the following criteria shall be
used:
   a.   Single family use will be required to elevate the lowest floor of any
structure to no less than two feet above natural grade when base flood data
does not exist;
   b.   Multiple family (five or more) and commercial uses will be required to
have all proposals establish the one hundred year base flood elevation before
consideration of the preliminary plan for development.
   B.   Development in the one hundred-year floodplain shall not be permitted
unless the applicant substantiates to the city that the development is
protected from such flooding. No new fill, structure or other obstruction shall
be placed or constructed within a Floodway unless a detailed hydrologic study
has been prepared and approved by the city engineer ensuring that the structure
will not obstruct, in any way, passing floodwaters, by such measures as
elevated structures on piers, or pilings.
   C.   Public facilities and bridges that have to be built within the one
hundred year floodplain zone shall be elevated to a minimum level of two feet
above the one hundred-year floodlines.
   D.   No structures shall be located within the stream channel except (a)
those structures necessary for flood control purposes which are found to be the
only possible alternative to protect existing structures and property from
flood hazards in the floodplain; (b) bridges when supports are located outside
critical habitat areas; and (c) pipelines, when no alternative route is
feasible; and (d) new underground utility transmission lines, when no
alternative route is feasible.
   E.   No concrete channelization or other alterations of natural stream beds
are permitted, except where necessary to protect existing facilities or bridges
and where it is found that no other feasible alternative exists.
   F.   No new development shall be allowed in the floodplain overlay zone
which will contribute to flood hazards on the same or other properties, or
require flood control works for flood protection. Development within the
floodplain overlay zone, in areas where a regulatory floodway is not
designated, will only be permitted when the applicant has provided engineering
technical data and facts which demonstrate that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community; or establish a setback
front the stream bank equal to five times the width of the stream at the top of
the bank or twenty feet on each side from the top of the bank, whichever is
greater, or where the development is built-up on pilings or where other similar
measures are utilized which the city shall determine will not increase flood
levels.
   G.   Within the Pismo Marsh/Meadow Creek Riparian and Creek Corridor, east
of the railroad right of way, no additional structural development including
diking, dredging, or filling is permitted below the forty-five feet contour
line. Only those structures necessary to provide flood protection for existing
structures, or to protect the public health and safety, and where no other
feasible method of flood protection is possible, or the primary purpose of the
project is the improvement of fish and wildlife habitat, shall be permitted.
All permitted development which substantially alters any natural landform shall
incorporate the best mitigation measures feasible to minimize the adverse
environmental impacts of such development.
   H.   New development above the forty-five foot contour line north of Pismo
Marsh/Meadow Creek shall be limited to that which is compatible with marsh
preservation and shall be sited and designed to ensure that such development
will not result in adverse impacts due to additional sediment, runoff and other
disturbances.
   I.   Runoff from any project which drains to the marsh within Meadow Creek
watershed or to Pismo Creek within the city limits shall not exceed the volume
rate of flow or particulate content of runoff from the land in its natural and
undisturbed state.
   J.   The city shall maintain and make available for public inspection the
standards and criteria needed for flood insurance policies.
   K.   All new construction and substantial improvements within the floodplain
when allowable by these standards shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   L.   All new construction and substantial Improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage, and use methods
and practices that minimize flood damage.
   M.   Where elevating new non-residential construction and substantial
improvements in conformance with the standards in this ordinance is infeasible,
flood proofing to the base flood elevation must occur. Example, of flood
proofing including, but are not limited to:
   1.   Installation of water tight doors, bulkheads and shutters;
   2.   Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressure;
   3.   Use of paints, membranes, tars, or mortars to reduce seepage through
walls;
   4.   Addition of mass or weight to structure to resist flotation;
   5.   Armor protection of all fill materials from scour and/or erosion;
   6.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied.
   N.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
system and discharge from systems into flood waters.
   O.   On-site water disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
   P.   All new mobile homes and additions to mobile homes in existing parks
subject to flooding shall be set on permanent foundation by anchoring the unit
to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by one of the following
methods:
   1.   By providing an anchoring system designed to withstand horizontal
forces of fifteen pounds per square foot and uplift forces of nine pounds per
square foot; or
   2.   By the anchoring of the unit's system, designed to be in compliance
with the Department of Housing and Urban Development Mobile Home Construction
and Safety Standards; or
   3.   By bolting the frame or undercarriage to a reinforced, permanent
foundation such as a retaining wall or storm wall used to set the unit.
   As set forth in the city's floodplain overlay zone regulations,
certification meeting the standards above is required of the installer or state
agency responsible for regulating the placement, installation, and anchoring of
individual mobile home units.
   Q.   For areas within the floodplain but outside of the floodway, the
following standards are required for (a) mobile homes not placed in mobile home
parks or subdivisions, (b) new mobile home parks or subdivisions, (c)
expansions to existing mobile home parks or subdivisions, and (d) repair,
reconstruction, or improvements to existing mobile home parks or subdivisions
that equals or exceeds fifty percent of the value of the streets, utilities,
and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement commenced.
   FLOOD CHANNEL SCHEMATIC DRAWING
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5864.jpg]
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
   1.   Adequate surface drainage and access for a hauler shall be provided.
   2.   All mobile homes shall be placed on pads or lots elevated on compacted
fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile home is a minimum of
one foot above the base flood level. If elevated on pilings:
   a.   The lots shall be large enough to permit steps, pilings, parking and
other necessary accessory uses;
   b.   The pilings shall be placed in stable soil no more than ten feet apart;
and
   c.   Reinforcement shall be provided for pilings more than six feet above
ground level.
   R.   No mobile home shall be placed in a floodway, except in an existing
mobile home park or existing mobile home subdivision.
   S.   Specific buffer setback standards for developments adjacent to Pismo
Marsh/Meadow Creek and Pismo Creek are contained in the specific planning Area
segments of the general plan/local coastal program land use plan and shall be
applied as a condition of development.
   T.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
   U.   All applicable criteria contained in Title 44, Emergency Management and
Assistance, Chapter 1--Federal Emergency Management Agency, Section 60.3 (c),
(d), and (e) if not included in the above regulations, is adopted by reference.
Chapter 17.078 HAZARDS AND PROTECTION (H) OVERLAY ZONE (DRAINAGE, RUNOFF,
EROSION, SLOPES, HILLSIDE REGULATIONS, SEISMIC, BLUFFTOP DEVELOPMENT, SHORELINE
PROTECTION)
17.078.010 Purpose of zone.
   The hazards and protection (H) overlay zone is intended to prevent unsafe
development of hazardous areas; to minimize damages to public and private
property; and to minimize social and economic dislocations resulting from
injuries, loss of life, and property damage. This overlay zone includes those
area unsafe for development which are (1) prone to downslope movement or severe
land slippage (i.e. slump, landslide areas); (2) in direct contact with known
active or potentially active faults or fault zones; and (3) located in areas of
high liquefaction potential, unstable slopes, retreating ocean bluffs or easily
erodible areas. This overlay zone is intended to maintain and enhance land and
watershed management, control storm drainage and erosion and control the water
quality of both urban runoff and natural water bodies by regulating development
within those areas with slopes of ten percent or greater. Also included in this
overlay zone is the city's hillside regulations. This overlay zone is intended
to also protect and enhance the shoreline bluffs and beaches of the city from
visual as well as physical deterioration or erosion.
17.078.020 Drainage, runoff, erosion and slopes; criteria and standards.
   All development in those areas of the city with ten percent or greater
slopes shall meet the following standards and criteria:
   A.   All determinations required under this section shall be made by the
city engineer except that all landscaping plans shall be approved by the city
planner or architectural review committee as required by the approved plans;
   B.   The building inspector shall verify the installation of approved
landscaping improvements in compliance with the plans approved in subsection
(A) above;
   C.   Development on easily erodible areas shall be prohibited unless
acceptable mitigation measures are established and required;
   D.   Development occurring in hillsides and environmentally sensitive areas
shall preserve native flora and fauna to minimize erosion hazards and loss of
wildlife;
   E.   A runoff control plan shall be submitted to the city engineer for
review and approval prior to the issuance of a building permit for all
construction on slopes of ten percent or greater. The runoff control plan shall
be designed by a licensed engineer qualified in hydrology and soil mechanics.
This plan shall include the following provisions (with any supporting
calculations as necessary):
   1.   Runoff control shall be accomplished by minimizing grading and
utilizing non-structural techniques such as erosion retardant vegetation as
well as structural techniques such as on-site percolation galleries. Energy
dissipating devices at the terminus of outflow drains shall be required;
   2.   For permitted grading all permanent erosion control devices shall be
developed and installed prior to or concurrent with any on-site grading
activities;
   3.   Prior to the commencement of any grading activity, the permittee shall
submit a grading schedule which indicates that grading shall be completed
within the permitted time stipulated in subsection (5) below and that any
variation from the schedule shall be promptly reported to the city engineer;
   4.   All areas disturbed by grading shall be planted with temporary, or in
the case of finished slopes, permanent erosion retardant vegetation. With
respect to grading not exempted by Section
17.078.020.4, such planting shall be made prior to November 1. Native species
shall be planted wherever feasible. Such planting shall be accomplished under a
plan prepared and submitted by a licensed landscape architect and shall consist
of seeding, mulching, fertilization, and irrigation adequate to provide ninety
percent coverage within ninety days of the time of planting. Planting shall be
repeated if the required level of coverage is not established within the time
period stipulated above. This requirement shall apply to all disturbed soils,
including stockpiles, and to all building pads and road cuts;
   5.   All grading activities for roads, future building pads, utilities and
the installation of erosion and sedimentation control devices shall be
prohibited within the period from November first to March thirty-first of each
year, except that the following grading activities may be permitted outside the
above time constraints:
   a.   Grading on slopes if they do not drain into an environmentally
sensitive habitat area,
   b.   Grading on slopes less than ten percent, if the amount to be graded
does not exceed fifty cubic yards,
   c.   Grading in areas outside of the coastal zone only when the department
of fish and game and the city engineer have agreed in writing to an erosion
control plan for the particular development and all necessary erosion control
measures and facilities have been completed prior to November first and there
is adequate bonding to assure maintenance of all erosion control facilities.
   F.   Permits and zoning clearances shall not be issued for developments that
significantly alter the hydrological character of the surrounding area.
   G.   New development shall include storm drainage studies as part of their
project application requirements.
   H.   Development in the Freeway Foothills planning area shall be required to
provide structures to carry surface water runoff from their property without
impacting other development.
   I.   Runoff from any new development on lands adjacent to the marsh area
shall not exceed the volume rate of flow or particulate content of runoff from
the land in its natural, undisturbed state.
   J.   Grading on slopes in excess of thirty percent is prohibited.
   K.   Construction on areas known to be prone to landsliding or severe land
slippage is prohibited without specific slope stability engineering studies
proving that safe construction is feasible.
   L.   Runoff from any project which drains to the marsh within the Meadow
Creek watershed or to Pismo Creek within the city limits shall not exceed the
volume rate of flow or particulate content of runoff from the land in its
natural and undisturbed state. (Ord. 88-10 § 2, 1988)
17.078.030 Hillside regulation criteria and standards.
   The hillside regulations shall be and hereby are applied to those areas of
the city of Pismo Beach which, due to topography, require special consideration
to assure that development of hillside lands will not destroy the natural
amenities of such lands nor deplete the scenic resources of the city
   A.   Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all hillside areas
within the city of Pismo Beach, except as specifically excluded herein. The
term "hillside areas" is defined as all properties in the city which have a
natural slope of ten percent or more or to which proposed access to the site
traverses slopes of ten percent or more. No grading shall commence on slopes
greater than thirty percent (except within the coastal zone portion of Pismo
Heights, where the maximum slope shall be twenty percent. These hillside
development regulations shall be in addition to the applicable standards which
are otherwise required by the city.
   B.   Permit Requirements. Prior to the issuance of a grading or building
permit or the approval of a tentative tract map for any parcel of land located
within a hillside area, the applicant is required to submit development plans
to the planning commission in accordance with the provisions of any specific
provision of this chapter. The planning commission shall have the power to
authorize or deny the issuance of any grading or building permit and approve or
deny any tentative map where development plans fail to meet either the specific
provisions or the general purpose and intent of this chapter. The planning
commission may authorize the issuance of said permits upon such conditions, if
any, as it determines necessary and proper to assure the general purpose and
intent of this Title and may require such guarantees, if any, as it deems
necessary to assure the fulfillment of such conditions.
   C.   Permitted Uses. All uses permitted in any zone district are subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Application Procedure. Upon application for grading or building permit,
or tentative tract map approval, the applicant shall submit preliminary
development plans consisting of the following:
   1.   For all grading or building permit applications, proposed site plans,
grading plans, profiles of proposed grading plans, and upon approval of grading
plans proposed landscape and irrigation plans.
   2.   With all tentative tract maps: proposed grading plans and profiles of
proposed grading plans; together with conceptualized site plans and landscape
plans.
   All plans and profile drawings shall be prepared to scale and submitted with
copies of each (twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches) to the department of
community development. The department of community development will distribute
the various copies to appropriate city staff members for review and comment
prior to the submission of such plans to the planning commission. The
department of community development shall forward all recommendations along
with any comments from city staff to the planning commission. The planning
commission shall thereafter review and approve, conditionally approve, or
reject such preliminary plans.
   E.   Additional Data Required. In addition to preliminary development plans,
the applicant may be required to submit detailed data describing the existing
topographic, soils, geologic, seismic, and drainage conditions at the proposed
site. Detailed studies and analysis may be required as part of an Environmental
Impact Report prepared in accordance with adopted city guidelines. Upon
determination by the planning commission, the applicant may also be required to
submit a scaled, profile model depicting any or all portions of the site
proposed for development.
   F.   Planning Commission Review. In reviewing preliminary development plans
for hillside areas, the planning commission shall be guided by the following
objectives:
   1.   Preservation of natural topographic features and appearances by means
of land sculpturing so as to blend any manmade or manufactured slopes into the
natural topography;
   2.   Preservation of natural topographic features and appearances through
prohibition of excessive padding and terracing of building sites in hillside
areas;
   3.   Retention of major natural skyline profiles so as to avoid abrupt
changes in grade;
   4.   Retention of major natural topographic features such as canyons,
drainage swales, steep slopes, watershed areas, flood plains, view corridors,
and scenic vistas;
   5.   The preservation and enhancement of prominent landmark features such as
natural rock outcroppings, prominent trees and plant material, and other areas
of special natural beauty;
   6.   The design and arrangement of alternative building sites, lot sizes,
setbacks, and setback variations, and residential densities on steeper terrain
so as to limit the extent of grading alterations;
   7.   The utilization of clustered sites and buildings and increased
densities on more gently sloping terrain so as to reduce grading alterations on
steeper, more pronounced, natural terrain;
   8.   The utilization and blending of building designs, locations, and
arrangements which serve to avoid a continuous, hard skyline effect and which
will afford view privacy and protection;
   9.   The preservation and re-establishment of native plant material so as to
protect slopes from soil erosion and slippage, and to minimize the visual
effects of grading and construction on hillside areas; and
   10.   The utilization of street designs and improvements which serve to
minimize grading alterations and harmonize with the natural contours and
character of the hillside.
   G.   Development Standards. The following development standards shall apply
to all hillside developments under this ordinance:
   1.   The overall shape, height, and grade of any cut or fill slopes shall be
developed in concert with the existing natural contours and scale of the
natural terrain of a particular site;
   2.   All cut and fill slopes in excess of ten feet vertical height shall be
rounded with vertical curves from the crest of the slope and from any surface
drains constructed on the face or top of the slope;
   3.   Where two cut or fill slopes intersect, the ends of each slope shall be
horizontally rounded and blended with a minimum radius of twenty-five feet;
   4.   Where any cut or fill slopes meet the natural grade, the ends of each
slope shall be vertically and/or horizontally rounded and blended with the
natural contours so as to represent natural slope appearance.
   5.   Where any cut or fill slopes exceed one hundred feet in horizontal
length, the horizontal contours of the slope shall be curved in a continuous,
undulating fashion;
   6.   The top and toe of each slope in excess of ten feet vertical height,
excepting the toe of any slope within twenty-five feet of a dwelling, shall be
vertically rounded and designed in proportion to the total height of the slope;
   7.   In all instances of the creation of cut or fill slopes, detailed
landscape and irrigation plans shall be submitted to the planning commission
for review and approval prior to the issuance of any building or grading
permit;
   8.   Detailed planting plans shall be included for all cut or fill slopes in
excess of five feet in height;
   9.   Planting and irrigation on all graded slopes shall be commenced and
pursued to completion in accordance with approved plans upon the completion of
grading operations, pursuant to the standards of Section
17.078.020;
   10.   All planting and irrigation of slopes carried out pursuant to the
standards and criteria of this section shall be completed, verified, and
approved by the city prior to the issuance of occupancy permits for the
development;
   11.   The applicant and/or developer shall be responsible for the
maintenance and upkeep of all slope planting and irrigation systems until such
time as the individual properties and dwellings are occupied or until a
prescribed homeowners' association accepts the responsibility to maintain the
landscaping in common areas. (Ord. 04-04 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2004)
17.078.040 Seismic criteria and standards.
   A.   New construction directly astride or across known or potential active
faults or fault zones is prohibited.
   B.   Construction in areas with high liquefaction potential without site
specific analysis is prohibited.
   C.   All new development shall use the planning and technical criteria
presented in the Safety Element to reduce hazard risk.
   D.   Permits shall not be issued to new developments until a project has
been reviewed to determine if any part of the construction or operation will
create unacceptable conditions which would affect the welfare or safety of city
residents.
   E.   All normal construction shall be designed or engineered to withstand
the force of an eight point five magnitude earthquake (Richter Scale).
   F.   All critical facility construction shall be designed or engineered to
withstand and remain functional after the force of an eight point five
magnitude earthquake (Richter Scale).
17.078.050 Bluff hazard, erosion and bluff retreat criteria and standards.
   A.   New structures shall be set back a sufficient distance from the bluff
edge to be safe from the threat of bluff erosion for a minimum of one hundred
years. The city shall determine the required setback based on the following
criteria:
   1.   For development on single family residential lots subdivided prior to
January 23, 1981, the minimum bluff setback shall be twenty-five feet from the
top of the bluff (blufftop is defined as the point at which the slope begins to
change from near horizontal to more vertical). A geologic investigation may be
required at the discretion of the city engineer, and a greater setback may be
applied if local conditions warrant.
   2.   For all other development, a geologic study shall be required for any
development proposed within the area between the face of the bluff and a line
described on the blufftop by the intersection of a plane inclined at a twenty
degree angle from horizontal, passing through the toe of the bluff or cliff, or
fifty feet inland from the edge of the bluff, whichever is greater. All
geologic reports prepared for blufftop development which do not address the
area beyond this twenty degree rule, shall include a specific finding that no
study beyond the area delimited by a line running from the base of the bluff to
the top of the bluff at a twenty degree angle is necessary to assure the long
term structural stability of the proposed development.
   B.   In addition to the criteria and standards for bluff top hazard setbacks
as identified in this Section, additional building setbacks shall be required
for specific planning areas as identified in the general plan/local coastal
program land use plan to incorporate public access and recreational areas in
addition to cliff retreat zones.
   C.   Geologic studies and reports shall consider, describe and analyze the
following:
   1.   Cliff geometry and site topography, extending the surveying work beyond
the site as needed to depict unusual geomorphic conditions that might affect
the site;
   2.   Historic, current and foreseeable cliff erosion, including
investigation of recorded land surveys and tax assessment records in addition
to the use of historic maps and photographs where available and possible
changes in shore configuration and sand transport;
   3.   Geologic conditions, including soil, sediment, and rock types and
characteristics in addition to structural features, such as bedding, joints and
faults;
   4.   Evidence of past or potential landslide conditions, the implications of
such condition for the proposed development and the potential effects of the
development on landslide activity;
   5.   Impact of construction activity on the stability of the site and
adjacent area;
   6.   Ground and surface water conditions and variations, including
hydrologic changes caused by the development (i.e., introduction of sewage,
effluent and irrigation water to the groundwater system); alterations of
surface drainage;
   7.   Potential erodibility of site and mitigation measures to be used to
ensure minimized erosion problems during and after construction (i.e.,
landscape and drainage design);
   8.   Effects of marine erosion on seacliffs;
   9.   Potential effects of seismic forces resulting from a maximum credible
earthquake; and
   10.   Any other factors that might affect slope or bluff stability.
   D.   A site specific erosion control plan for all permitted blufftop
development shall be prepared by a registered engineer qualified in hydrology
and soil mechanics and shall assure that the development would not contribute
to the erosion or failure of any bluff face and will eliminate or mitigate any
adverse impacts on local shoreline sand supply to the maximum extent feasible.
17.078.060 Shoreline protection criteria and standards.
   A.   No permanent above ground structures shall be permitted on the dry
sandy beach except facilities necessary for public health and safety, such as,
but not limited to lifeguard towers and the pier.
   B.   Off-shore oil drilling or any other activity that may endanger the
Pismo clam, or recreational value of the beach shall be prohibited within the
city's jurisdiction, and discouraged in adjacent outside ocean areas.
   C.   Sand mining offshore in the city's jurisdiction shall not be permitted.
   D.   Seawalls shall not be permitted, unless the city has determined that
there are no other less environmentally damaging alternatives for protection of
existing development or coastal dependent uses. If permitted, seawall design
must (a) respect natural landforms; (b) provide for lateral beach access; and
(c) use visually compatible colors and materials and will eliminate or mitigate
any adverse impacts on local shoreline sand supply.
   E.   New development shall not be permitted where it is determined that
shoreline protection will be necessary for protection of the new structures now
or in the future based on a one hundred year geologic projection.
   F.   Shoreline structures, including groins, piers, breakwaters, pipelines,
outfalls or similar structures which serve to protect existing structures, or
serve coastal dependent uses and that may alter natural shoreline processes
shall not be permitted unless the city has determined that when designed and
sited, the project will:
   1.   Eliminate or mitigate impacts on local shoreline sand supply;
   2.   Provide lateral beach access;
   3.   Avoid significant rocky points and intertidal or subtidal areas; and
   4.   Enhance public recreational opportunities.
   G.   No additional development shall be permitted on any bluff face, except
engineered staircases or accessways to provide public beach access, and
pipelines for scientific research or coastal dependent industry. Drainpipes
shall be allowed only where no other less environmentally damaging drain system
is feasible and the drainpipes are designed and placed to minimize impacts to
the bluff face, toe and beach.
   H.   Drainage devices extending over the bluff face shall not be permitted
if the property can be drained away from the bluff face. All new drainage
structures shall be constructed in such a manner that drainage water is not
permitted to spill over or onto the bluff face.
   I.   For any development along the bluff top appropriate erosion control
measures (i.e., set out in the "Erosion Control Handbook" in Appendix 2 of the
general plan/local coastal program land use plan) shall be implemented.
   J.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
Chapter 17.081 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS (HL) OVERLAY ZONE
17.081.010 Purpose of zone.
   The height limitations (HL) overlay zone is intended to set special
restrictions on maximum building heights in designated areas of the city in
order to preserve access to extraordinary scenic views and vistas, as well as
to preserve and maintain bulk and scale relationships for selected areas. These
regulations are intended to preserve and protect the existing character of
certain districts, according to stipulations established in the general plan/
local coastal program land use plan.
17.081.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   HL-1. In all low density areas identified in the HL overlay zone map,
except the Central Sunset Palisades planning area, no structures shall exceed
fifteen feet in height when measured from the highest point on the roof to the
highest point of site grade, nor shall any such structure exceed twenty-five
feet when measured from the highest point of the roof above the center of the
building footprint at site grade (See also Chapter 17.102).
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5872.jpg]
 
   B.   HL-2. In the Central Sunset Palisades planning area, no structures
shall exceed fifteen feet in height when measured from the height of the center
of the building pad (the finished building pad grade designated on the final
tract grading plan at the time of recordation).
   C.   HL-3. In the South Palisades planning area, heights of all buildings
shall vary from one to two stories, with two-story structures being allowable
only in areas which will not substantially block ocean overviews from U.S.
Highway 101. Heights of structures immediately landward of the required general
plan bluff setback shall not exceed fifteen feet in height measured from the
highest point of the roof to the center point of the building footprint at site
grade existing as of January 23, 1981. Heights of other structures shall not
exceed a maximum of twenty-five feet above the grade existing as of October 12,
1976.
   D.   HL-4. In the Dinosaur Caves planning area, in addition to the
limitations of Chapter 17.102, heights of all structures shall not exceed the
height of the southbound lane of U.S. Highway 101 adjacent to the buildable
frontage of the properties along Shell Beach Road. No structures shall exceed
twenty-five feet in height above site grade unless maximum views are maintained
over the rest of the property. In the North Dinosaur Caves planning area, the
maximum roof height shall not exceed ninety-eight feet above sea level. In the
South Dinosaur Caves planning area, the maximum roof height shall not exceed
one hundred eighteen feet above sea level.
   E.   HL-5. In the Freeway Foothills planning area, heights of structures
shall not significantly detract from views of coastal landforms. Structures
shall be limited to three levels above existing grade as of January 23, 1981
and shall be limited to twenty-five feet in height above existing grade at any
point.
   F.   HL-6. In the HL-6 subzone of the Shell Beach planning area, the maximum
height of buildings, as measured from site grade shall be limited to twenty-
five feet and shall appear to be no more than two levels or floors.
   G.   HL-7. In the HL-7 subzone of the Spyglass planning area, heights of
structures shall be limited to twenty-five feet as measured above site grade.
17.081.030 Special height limits--Ocean fronting parcels.
   Special height limitations for ocean fronting parcels in the following
planning areas shall be described below:
   A.   North Spyglass Planning Area. For structures adjacent to public lateral
accessways (along this bluff top), special consideration shall be given to
siting and design standards including: reduced height of structures adjacent to
said accessway, setting back of each floor to reduce vertical bulk appearance
and encouraging variations in setbacks of structures adjacent to the lateral
accessway consistent with the requirements of the view consideration overlay
zone.
   B.   Motel District Planning Area. Structures adjacent to any public lateral
accessway shall be sited and designed with special consideration to reduced
height of structures adjacent to said accessway, setting back of each floor to
reduce vertical bulk appearance and encouraging variations in setbacks of
structures adjacent to the lateral accessway consistent with the requirements
of the view consideration overlay zone.
   C.   Commercial Core Planning Area. Beginning at the inland extent of the
public boardwalk identified in the city's local coastal program, one story
facades no higher than twelve feet in height above site grade (including roofs)
shall be permitted immediately adjacent to the boardwalk. Additional story
facades beyond the first level shall maintain the following minimum setbacks
from the inland extent of the public boardwalk:
 
Level   Setback from Boardwalk   
1st level None required
2nd level 7'--10' minimum setback
3rd level 14'--20' minimum setback
4th level 21'--30' minimum setback
 
   Additional levels beyond those described above shall be treated similarly up
to the maximum height permitted by the zone, providing said maximum height is
consistent with the requirements of the view considerations overlay zone.
   Development within these "stepback" areas shall be limited to see-through
balcony railings no higher than forty-two feet, and roof overhangs consistent
with the applicable regulations of this zoning ordinance. Ocean fronting
parcels of record (as of January 23, 1981) that are less than fifty feet in
depth shall be required to provide setbacks of upper floors to reduce vertical
bulk along the beachfront; however, due to their small size the standards
related above shall not be applied as a minimum setback but rather the setbacks
of upper floors on these parcels shall be determined on a case-by-case basis.
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5877.jpg]
 
 
Chapter 17.084 NOISE PROBLEMS (N) OVERLAY ZONE
17.084.010 Purpose of zone.
   The noise problems (N) overlay zone is intended to protect noise sensitive
areas from excessive noise levels.
17.084.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   All noise sensitive residential uses, such as but not limited to
residences, motels, and hospitals, shall be sited as far from major noise
sources, such as the freeway, as feasible.
   B.   An acoustical engineering report shall be submitted at the time of
application which shall address mitigating measures such as insulation, site
planning, landscaping, setbacks, walls, etc., for all noise sensitive
residential uses proposed within this overlay zone.
   C.   If the acoustical engineering report indicates that the area is not
noise impacted based on the maximum standards established below, no additional
attenuation measures will be necessary.
   D.   All new developments within noise impacted areas shall implement
adequate site planning and insulation measures to reduce noise to the following
established noise compatibility standards:
   City of Pismo Beach Noise Level Compatibility Standards**
Land Use Category Maximum Acceptable Noise Exposure   
                 Exterior, If Applicable   
Land Use Category                        Maximum Acceptable Noise Exposure   
                                        Exterior, If Applicable   
Residential, Single Family, Duplex, Mobile
Homes, Multi-Family Dwelling, Dormitories, 60 45
etc.
Transient Lodging                          70 45
School Classrooms, Libraries, Churches     65 45
Hospitals, Nursing Homes                   65 45
Auditoriums, Concert Halls, Music Shells   60 --
Sports Arenas, Outdoor Spectator Sports    65 --
Playgrounds, Neighborhood Parks            65 --
Golf Courses, Riding Stables, Water        70 --
Recreation, Cemeteries
Office Buildings, Personal, Business and   75 45
Professional
Commercial--Retail, Movie Theaters,        75 --
Restaurants
Commercial--Wholesale, Some Retail,        80 --
Industry, Manufacturing, Utilities
Manufacturing--Communications (Noise       70 --
Sensitive)
Livestock Farming, Animal Breeding         75 --
Agriculture (except livestock), Mining,    95 --
Fishing
Public Right-of-Way                        85 --
Extensive Natural Recreation Areas         75 --
 
   Source: Noise Element, city of Pismo Beach General Plan/Local Coastal
Program Land Use Plan. ** The above noise exposure levels represent the upper
limit of the range of "normally acceptable," continuous, noise levels.
"Normally acceptable" is defined as being an exposure that is great enough to
create concern. Alterations in building construction can make the Indoor
environment acceptable, even for sleeping quarters.
   5.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
Chapter 17.087 OPEN SPACE (OS-2) OVERLAY ZONE
17.087.010 Purpose of zone.
   The open space (OS-2) overlay zone requires that developments provide open
space in conformance with the general plan/local coastal program land use plan
and open space plan. Its purpose is to ensure that adequate public access and
recreational activities are provided with development and that sensitive
ecological or scenic areas are protected.
17.087.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   This zone may facilitate transfer densities when development occurs and
open space is established. These open space areas will be classified either OS-
1 or OS-R and may be transferred to the public in fee simple, deed restriction
or in dedicated easements securing the property's continued use as open space.
   B.   Developments shall be required to provide open space in conformance
with relevant specific planning area section goals, policies and programs of
the general plan/local coastal program land use plan.
   C.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan and open space plan.
Chapter 17.090 PUBLIC OR VISITOR PARKING (P) OVERLAY ZONE
17.090.010 Purpose of zone.
   The public or visitor parking (P) overlay zone is intended to ensure access
to coastal activities by fulfilling visitor parking demands. This zone will
also relieve congestion and provide better circulation throughout the city.
17.090.020 Criteria and standards.
   1.   Improved public parking shall be provided in conjunction with vertical
and lateral accessways wherever necessary to ensure the use of the accessway
and consistent with site constraints. Values otherwise specified in the
certified local coastal program land use plan, the number of spaces shall be
determined by the planning commission and shall be based on safety
considerations, carrying capacity of the beach or view potential, whichever is
applicable, and past use of the area in question. Fee simple dedication of land
shall not be required for such parking; however, other means of securing public
parking for access purposes including but not necessarily limited to deed
restrictions, easements and conditions of approval may be used in lieu of
offers to dedicate land in fee simple. Adequate signing for all public parking
shall be provided with each development.
   2.   Public off-street parking will be required by the planning commission
in areas designated by the general plan/local coastal program land use plan for
required visitor parking. Other visitor parking may be required by the planning
commission where necessary to meet the needs for visitor parking for the
location of the project based upon current or projected usage.
   3.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
Chapter 17.091 RESIDENTIAL VERY HIGH DENSITY (RVHD) OVERLAY DISTRICT
17.091.010 Purpose.
   The Residential Very High Density (RVHD) Overlay District serves to
implement General Plan Housing Element policies of providing new housing that
addresses affordable housing needs in the city by establishing development
regulations and incentives for the development of higher density affordable
housing projects.
(Ord. O-2020-008 § 1 (part), 2020)
17.091.020 Applicability.
   The standards and regulations of this chapter apply to areas designated with
an RVHD overlay on the zoning map. Designation of a parcel or parcels with the
RVHD overlay shall constitute an amendment to the Local Coastal Program's
Implementation Plan, and shall require review and certification by the Coastal
Commission. Any such amendment shall identify the maximum amount of development
that can be accommodated pursuant to the RVHD overlay without adversely
affecting coastal resources, including in terms of maximum building heights and
maximum development envelopes, and such maximums shall be prescribed for any
such parcels in subsection 17.091.050.G. Except as provided in this chapter,
all new structures and development, as well as alterations to existing
structures, shall comply with the requirements and review procedures of the R-
3 Zoning District.
(Ord. O-2020-008 § 1 (part), 2020)
17.091.030 Affordable housing requirement.
    One hundred percent (100%) of the total number of residential units within
the project, exclusive of units added by a density bonus awarded pursuant to
state law, shall be provided at prices affordable to moderate-income or below
households for a minimum of fifty-five (55) years.
(Ord. O-2020-008 § 1 (part), 2020)
17.091.040 Density.
    Development within the RVHD Overlay Zone shall provide a minimum density of
twenty (20) residential units per acre and shall not exceed a maximum density
of fifty (50) units per acre, exclusive of units added by a density bonus
awarded pursuant to state law.
(Ord. O-2020-008 § 1 (part), 2020)
17.091.050 General development standards.
   A.    Building heights. No building or structure shall exceed thirty-five
(35) feet in height above site grade except as provided below.
      1.   Height exception. Buildings may be up to forty-five (45) feet in
height where the Planning Commission finds that significant public views to and
along the coast and other scenic areas are protected.
      2.   Visual study required. In order to evaluate a proposed project's
compliance with the above criteria, submittal of a visual study that
substantiates the basis for granting a height exception is required.
   B.   Minimum yard setbacks. Each lot shall have a front yard setback of not
less than ten (10) feet. Other yard setbacks shall be provided in accordance
with those otherwise required in the R-3 Zone.
   C.   Maximum allowable lot coverage for all structures. Maximum allowable
lot coverage limitations shall not apply.
   D.   Maximum allowable total building floor area for all structures as a
percentage of lot area. Maximum allowable total building floor area for all
structures as a percentage of lot area shall not apply.
   E.   Minimum planting and vegetation area (as a percentage of total lot
area). A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total lot area shall consist of
planting and vegetation area.
   F.   Minimum lot area per family unit. Minimum lot area per family unit
requirements shall not apply.
   G.   Site-specific development standards. In no case, including with respect
to any otherwise permissible development deviation/exception/variance, shall
development exceed the following site-specific development standards.
      1.   Development at 855 4th Street (APN 005-242-019) under the RVHD
overlay shall be limited to a maximum height of forty-five (45) feet.
(Ord. O-2020-008 § 1 (part), 2020)
17.091.060 Parking.
   Parking shall be provided pursuant to
Chapter 17.108, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements, except as provided
below.
   A.   Minimum off-street parking requirements. Minimum off-street parking
requirements, inclusive of accessible parking and guest parking, shall comply
with California Density Bonus Law (California Government Code Section 65915).
   B.   Configuration. Parking spaces may be covered or uncovered and may be
provided in a tandem configuration provided no more than two vehicles shall be
placed one behind the other and both spaces shall be assigned to a single
dwelling unit.
(Ord. O-2020-008 § 1 (part), 2020)
17.091.070 Open/amenity space.
    Open/amenity space shall be provided as follows.
   A.   Amount. A minimum of sixty (60) square feet of open/amenity space shall
be provided per unit.
   B.   Type of open/amenity space. The required open/amenity space may be
provided as private open space or common amenity space.
   C.   Minimum dimensions.
      1.   Private open space. Private open space located on the ground level
(e.g., yards, decks, patios) shall have no dimension less than eight (8) feet.
Private open space located above ground level (e.g., balconies) shall have no
dimension less than six (6) feet.
      2.   Common amenity space. Common amenity space, whether provided as
outdoor or indoor space, shall have minimum horizontal dimensions of twenty
(20) feet.
   D.   Configuration.
      1.   Private open space and outdoor common amenity space.
         a.   Private open space and outdoor common amenity space shall be
unoccupied by main or accessory buildings, parking areas, driveways, and
loading areas and be open and unobstructed to the sky.
         b.   A surface shall be provided that allows convenient use for
outdoor living and/or recreation. Such surface may be any practicable
combination of lawn, garden, flagstone, wood planking, concrete, decking, or
other serviceable, dust-free surfacing.
         c.   Slope shall not exceed ten percent (10%).
      2.   Indoor common amenity space. Indoor common amenity space shall
consist of common areas providing services to residents such as meeting and
community rooms, community kitchen, daycare and other social service areas,
gyms and other indoor recreation areas, and computer labs/media rooms.
   E.   Accessibility.
      1.   Private open space. Private open space shall be accessible to only
one living unit by a doorway to a habitable room or hallway.
      2.   Common amenity space. Common amenity space shall be accessible to
all of the living units on the lot.
(Ord. O-2020-008 § 1 (part), 2020)
Chapter 17.093 TRANSFER DENSITY (TD) OVERLAY ZONE.
17.093.010 Purpose of zone.
   The transfer density (TD) overlay zone shall be used to preserve sensitive
scenic resources and open space areas as is appropriate to each planning area.
This is achieved through transferable densities which allow developers to
relocate permitted densities from one area to another area in order to retain
and preserve desirable community resources and open space.
17.093.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   The property or portion of property from which density is to be
transferred must be feasible for development. Bluff retreat zones up to a
maximum of twenty-five feet in depth, unmitigatable hazard areas, areas in
excess of percentage slope requirements, waterways, wetlands and other similar
unbuildable areas described in the general plan/local coastal program land use
plan are not eligible for transfer density.
   B.   After demonstrating that the additional open space provides increased
preservation of scenic and open space resources, the transfer units that could
have been constructed on the first lot or portion of said lot may be
transferred to another lot or portion of said lot where appropriate. Transfers
of density that create excessive density situations may be grounds for denial
of the entire transfer or portion thereof. Transfers of density that would
create a project with a density, scale, or bulk which is in conflict with the
relevant standards of the certified local coastal program land use plan shall
not be permitted.
   C.   Density development rights of parcels in the TD overlay zone may be
transferred to parcels within the same TD overlay zone for the purpose of
retaining open space, to preserve scenic views, reducing hazards and/or
providing public access.
   D.   Total densities cannot exceed the number of units allowable on the
buildable portion of properties as defined in the general plan/local coastal
program land use plan.
   E.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5879.jpg]
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
Chapter 17.096 VIEW CONSIDERATIONS (V) OVERLAY ZONE
17.096.010 Purpose of zone.
   The view considerations (V) overlay zone is established to preserve, protect
and maintain views of scenic land and water areas, and other areas which are of
significant value to the public due to their aesthetic and scenic qualities as
defined in the general plan/local coastal program land use plan; preserve,
protect and maintain significant views and vistas from major public view
corridors, on city designated scenic highways (U.S. Highway 101, State Highway
1, and Price Canyon Road), public lands, beaches and waters within the city
which characterize the city's appearance; ensure that site planning, design,
grading and landscape techniques will preserve, protect and enhance the visual
character of the city's predominant natural landforms, urban form, vegetation
and other distinctive features.
17.096.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   All uses, developments and alterations of land included within this
overlay zone shall not result in a change in elevation of the land or
construction of any improvement which would significantly block, alter or
impair major views, vistas, viewsheds or major coastal landforms from
designated scenic highways, public lands and waters or viewpoints in such a way
as to materially and irrevocably alter the quality of the view.
   B.   All industrial facilities, public utilities and public works facilities
shall be screened from view to the maximum extent feasible from any scenic
highway.
   C.   All mechanical equipment such as air conditioners, heaters, exposed
ducting and plumbing and all outside storage areas and loading docks shall be
designed in such a manner that is compatible with the surrounding structures
and landforms. All objectionable views shall be screened by landscaping or
other means.
   D.   All new developments shall minimize their impact on scenic values.
   E.   In order to meet the standards of the local coastal program land use
plan, all new developments' height, bulk and scale shall not significantly
block ocean views from city-designated scenic highways, and must provide
corridor views and/or overviews of the ocean from these highways. Clustered
design and/or planned development concepts should be utilized. The following
special guidelines shall be utilized as a guide for siting development in the
planning areas described below:
   1.   For new development in the North Spyglass and motel district planning
areas on a parcel or series of parcels with a property frontage on Shell Beach
Road of greater than one hundred fifty feet in width, all development shall
minimally provide either:
   a.   Thirty-five percent of the property frontage width in open scenic view
corridors (of twenty feet or more in width); or
   b.   Forty percent scenic overviews to be measured as described in
subsection 3 below; or
   c.   A combination of open scenic view corridors and overview totaling forty
percent of the vertical view plane established in subsection 3 below.
   2.   For new development in the Dinosaur Caves planning area, all projects
shall minimally provide either of the following standards:
   a.   Forty percent of the property frontage width in open scenic view
corridors (of thirty feet or more in width); or
   b.   Fifty percent scenic overviews to be measured as described in
subsection 3 below; or
   c.   A combination of open scenic view corridors and overviews totaling
fifty percent of the vertical view plane established in subsection 3 below.
   3.   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions or phrases
are utilized; see also Figure 096-1.
   a.   Bluff Site Line. The site line established in cross-sectional view
between the freeway sight position and the top of the bluff.
   b.   Building Silhouette. The building outline superimposed against the
vertical view plane as seen from the freeway sight position.
   c.   Freeway Sight Position. A viewing position three feet above the nearest
travel lane of U.S. Highway 101.
   d.   Horizon Site Line. The site line established in cross-sectional view
between the freeway sight position and a horizontal line drawn to the horizon.
   e.   Vertical View Plane: The rectangular area defined by the vertical area
between the horizon and bluff site lines and the side property lines (see
Figure 096-1).
   In order to determine the conformity of developments subject to the
provisions of this chapter, cross-sectional and elevational drawings need to be
developed similar to Figure 096-1. Overviews are measured by describing the
vertical view plane first, and then superimposing the proposed structures
against the vertical view plane. In this manner, it is possible to determine
relative degrees of ocean view blockage two dimensionally against the
percentage requirements of sections (E)(1) and (E)(2) above.
   4.   The application of these guidelines shall take into consideration the
varying nature of views across properties in these planning areas.
Specifically, optimum coastal views (i.e., of offshore islets, headlands,
beaches, dunes, etc.,) shall be identified, and view corridors, and/or
overviews, delineated which provide maximum protection of viewing
opportunities. Development siting shall provide for diagonal and/or
perpendicular through or overview corridors across subject parcels when
necessary to protect identified viewing opportunities.
   5.   For each project considered by the city in the planning areas described
above, the city shall make findings, based on the application of these
guidelines and the potential for view preservation and/or enhancement on each
property, on a case-by-case basis. These findings and supporting background
information shall be a part of the city's development consideration.
   F.   All development, including new roads, shall minimize the alteration of
the natural topography and scenic values of the area. In the Sunset Palisades
planning area, all development shall be built on or into existing grades. In
the Freeway Foothills planning area, all development shall be built on or into
existing grades and residential units shall be clustered and located off the
top of ridges, knolls and hummocks a sufficient distance to retain the
silhouette profile of the topographic feature.
   FIGURE 096-1
VIEW CONSIDERATIONS OVERLAY ZONE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5884.jpg]
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
   G.   All new developments shall underground new and, where feasible,
existing utility lines on and adjacent to the site.
   H.   Landscaping along Scenic Highways designated in the general plan/local
coastal program land use plan shall be designed to enhance existing scenic
views.
   I.   The size, location and massing of structures shall not significantly
obscure the scenic backdrop provided by the foothills to visitors, passing
motorists, and residents viewing from Scenic Highways. The Freeway Foothills
planning area shall be designated a limited medium density residential (up to
eight du/ac) and to limited commercial, planned development with considerations
given to preservation of scenic resources and open space. The planning area
shall be developed under a maximum of three specific plans, one each for the
three geographically separate sub-areas within the Freeway Foothills planning
area.
   J.   The designs of buildings and building layouts and parking area shall be
such that the views of the development from all scenic highways will be
visually pleasing.
   K.   All signs visible from scenic highways shall be designed so as to not
detract from the visual quality of the area. Special attention shall be given
to the height and sizes of signs visible from scenic highways (See Sign
Regulations).
   L.   Existing mature trees visible from scenic highways shall be conserved
whenever feasible.
   M.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
Chapter 17.099 VISITOR SERVICES (VS) OVERLAY ZONE
17.099.010 Purpose of zone.
   The visitor services (VS) overlay zone intends to strengthen commercial
activity by developing coastal dependent attractions such as motels, hotels,
restaurants, parks and recreation facilities in certain portions of commercial
zones.
17.099.020 Criteria and standards.
   A.   Secondary, limited, low scale motel uses may be considered by the
planning commission where compatible with residential development in the
Freeway Foothills area, and may be permitted in this area with a conditional
use permit.
   B.   New development within the downtown commercial visitor services overlay
zone shall be limited to uses which cater or serve primarily tourists and
visitors. Motels should be permitted within this overlay zone.
   C.   All actions taken under this overlay zone shall be consistent with the
relevant goals, policies and programs of the general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
CHAPTER 17.100 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS
17.100.010 Purpose and intent.
   This chapter's purpose is to provide a procedure to make requests for
reasonable accommodation of City of Pismo Beach land use regulations and
policies to comply with the intent and purpose of United States and California
Fair Housing Laws and City of Pismo Beach General Plan policy HE-30. The city
intends to provide reasonable accommodation of its land use rules, policies,
practices and procedures to provide for equal access to housing for individuals
with physical or mental conditions that limit movement, senses or activities.
(Ord. O-2013-001 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.100.020 Definitions.
   A.   “Applicant” means an individual with a physical or mental condition
that limits movements, senses, his or her representative, or a developer or
provider of housing for the applicant. This definition applies when the
application of a zoning or other land use regulation, policy, practice or
procedure acts as a barrier to fair housing opportunities for individual(s)
with physical or mental conditions that limit movement, senses or activities
and substantially limits one or more major life activities.
   B.   “Coastal resources” means special marine and land habitat areas,
wetlands, lagoons, and estuaries, areas possessing significant recreational
value, highly scenic areas, archaeological sites, significant coastal visitor
destination areas, areas that provide existing coastal housing or coastal
recreational opportunities for low and moderate income persons, and areas where
division of land could substantially impair or restrict coastal access.
   C.   “Director” means the community development director, or his/her
designee.
   D.   “Fair Housing Laws” means the “Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988" (42
U.S.C. § 3601, et seq.), including reasonable accommodation required by 42
U.S.C. § 3604(f)(3)(B), and the “California Fair Employment and Housing Act”
(California Government Code Section 12900, et seq.), including reasonable
accommodation required specifically by California Government Code Sections
12927(c)(1) and 12955(1), as any of these statutory provisions now exist or may
be amended from time to time.
   E.   “Local Coastal Plan” means the City of Pismo Beach Local Coastal Plan.
   F.   “Reasonable accommodation” or “accommodation” means providing
flexibility in the application of zoning or other land use regulations,
policies, practices and procedures, or waiving certain requirements, when it is
necessary to eliminate barriers to housing opportunities for individuals with
physical or mental conditions that limit movement, senses or activities.
   G.   “Reviewing authority” means the community development director, or his/
her designee, or the planning commission, as determined in compliance with
Section
17.100.050.
(Ord. O-2013-001 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.100.030 Notice to the public of availability of accommodation process.
   Notice of the availability of reasonable accommodation shall be prominently
displayed at public information counters that accept planning and building
applications, advising the public of the availability of the procedure for
eligible individuals. City employees shall direct individuals to the display
whenever they are requested to do so or reasonably believe that individuals
with physical or mental conditions that limit movement, senses or activities or
their representative may be entitled to a reasonable accommodation. Forms for
requesting reasonable accommodation shall be available to the public in the
community development department.
(Ord. O-2013-001 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.100.040 Requesting reasonable accommodation.
   A.   In order to make housing available to an individual with physical or
mental conditions that limit movement, senses or activities, an applicant may
request a reasonable accommodation in zoning and other land use regulations,
policies, practices and procedures.
   B.   All requests shall be limited to the minimum reasonable accommodation
that the applicant believes is necessary to accommodate his or her limited
movement, senses or activities. Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be
in writing and provide the following information:
   1.   Name and address of the applicant;
   2.   Name and address of the property owner(s);
   3.   Address of the property for which accommodation is requested;
   4.   The current use of the property for which accommodation is requested;
   5.   Description of the requested accommodation, and the regulation(s),
policy or procedure for which accommodation is sought, which could include site
plans, floor plans, and/or details as necessary to define the extent of the
accommodation;
   6.   The basis for the claim that the Fair Housing Laws apply to the
individual(s) with physical or mental conditions that limit movement, senses or
activities noted to support the claim. The claim may be in the form of a letter
from the medical doctor or other licensed healthcare professional, or other
appropriate evidence;
   7.   Reason that the requested accommodation may be necessary for the
individual(s) to use and enjoy the property; and
   8.   How the property will be used by the subject applicant and/or
individual(s).
   C.   Any medical or health information identified by the applicant as
confidential shall be retained by the city in a manner so as to respect the
privacy rights of the individual and shall not be made available for public
inspection.
   D.   A request for reasonable accommodation in regulations, policies,
practices and procedures may be filed at any time that the accommodation may be
necessary to ensure equal access to housing. A reasonable accommodation does
not affect an applicant's obligation to comply with other applicable
regulations not at issue in the requested reasonable accommodation.
   E.   If an individual needs assistance in making the request for reasonable
accommodation, the city will provide assistance to ensure that the process is
accessible.
   F.   The fee for an application for reasonable accommodation shall be
established by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. O-2013-001 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.100.050 Reviewing authority and required criteria.
   A.   Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be reviewed by the
director, except requests that are integral to a larger development project
application shall, at the discretion of the director, be reviewed by the
planning commission.
   B.   The reviewing authority shall issue a written decision to grant, grant
with modification, or deny a request for reasonable accommodation that shall be
consistent with Fair Housing Laws and be consistent with the following
criteria:
   1.   The housing, which is the subject of the request for reasonable
accommodation, will be used by individual(s) with physical or mental conditions
that limit movement, senses or activities who are protected under Fair Housing
Laws;
   2.   The requested accommodation is necessary to make housing available to
individual(s) with physical or mental condition that limits movements, senses
or activities under the Fair Housing Laws;
   3.   The requested accommodation would not impose an undue financial or
administrative burden on the city;
   4.   The requested accommodation would be consistent with the neighborhood
character and would not require a fundamental alteration in the nature of the
city's land use and zoning program/local coastal plan and land use program;
   5.   The requested accommodations will not negatively impact coastal
resources;
   6.   The requested accommodation would not impose an undue hardship on the
health, safety or welfare of the subject property owner/occupant or adjacent
property owners.
(Ord. O-2013-001 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.100.060 Written decision on the request for reasonable accommodation.
   A.   The reviewing authority shall consider and act on requests for
reasonable accommodations and shall issue a written decision on the request
within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the application. The reviewing
authority may either grant with modifications, or deny a request for reasonable
accommodation. This written decision shall explain in detail the basis of the
decision consistent with the criteria set forth in Section
17.100.050. All written decisions shall give notice of the applicant's right to
appeal and to request reasonable accommodation in the appeals process as set
forth in Section
17.100.070. The notice of decision shall be sent to the applicant by certified
mail. If necessary to reach a determination on the request for reasonable
accommodation, the reviewing authority may request further information from the
applicant consistent with Fair Housing Laws, specifying in detail the
information that is required. If additional information is required, a new
thirty (30) calendar day period for the reviewing authority's written decision
will be triggered upon submittal of new information.
   B.   The written decision of the reviewing authority shall be final unless
the applicant appeals in accordance with Section
17.100.070.
   C.   If the reviewing authority fails to render a written decision on the
request for reasonable accommodation within the thirty (30) calendar day time
period the request shall be deemed denied.
   D.   While a request for reasonable accommodation is pending, all laws and
regulations otherwise applicable to the property that is the subject of the
request shall remain in full force and effect.
   E.   If a reasonable accommodation request is granted, an applicant shall
nevertheless have to obtain all other applicable zoning, land use, and building
approvals.
(Ord. O-2013-001 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.100.070 Appeals.
   An applicant may appeal any decision of the reviewing authority regarding an
application for reasonable accommodation to the city manager, except where the
decision is made by the planning commission in conjunction with a larger
development project application, wherein the appeal shall be considered by the
city council. All such appeals shall be heard and processed as set forth in
Chapter 17.121 of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code.
(Ord. O-2013-001 § 1 (part), 2013)
Chapter 17.102 GENERAL PROVISIONS: BUILDING HEIGHTS, YARD, AREA, COVERAGE AND
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
17.102.010 Building heights.
   Building heights shall be as follows:
   A.   Residential. Except as provided in Chapter 17.081 or unless a variance
has been granted pursuant to Chapter 17.121, no structures in the A-E, R-1, R-
2 or M-H zones shall exceed twenty-five feet in height as measured above the
center of the building footprint at site grade, nor shall the vertical
measurement of any portion of the structure exceed thirty-five feet in height
above site grade. Except for single-family dwellings, which shall have the same
height limit as stated in the foregoing, no building or structure in the R-3,
R-4 and R-R zones shall exceed thirty-five feet in height above site grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5889.jpg]
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
   B.   Commercial. Except as provided in Chapter 17.081:
   1.   In the C-1 and C-2 zones, no building or structure shall exceed forty-
two feet in height above site grade.
   2.   In the C-R, C-M and G zone no building or structure shall exceed
twenty-five feet in height above site grade.
   C.   P-R, OS-1 and OS-R Zones. As established by the use permit or as
further identified in the certified local coastal program land use plan
whichever standards require the greatest restrictions for heights.
   D.   All of the above zones may be subject to height and/or view
consideration overlay zones which may further restrict height.
   E.   Exceeding Height Limits (R-4, R-R, C-1, C-2, C-M and G Zones). Building
appurtenances and architectural extensions: Where cupolas, flag poles,
elevators, and solar collectors not otherwise permitted by subsection G below,
radio and other towers, water tanks, church steeples and similar structures and
mechanical appurtenances are associated with a permitted use in a district,
height limits may be exceeded by fifteen percent upon securing a conditional
use permit or development permit, provided that the height, bulk and scale of
the building is compatible with the adjacent area and is consistent with view
and other local coastal program land use plan considerations.
   F.   Exceeding Height Limits (R-1, R-2, R-3, P-R and M-H Zones). Television
antennas, except microwave dish antennae, fire place chimneys and roof mounted
solar collector(s) not exceeding an aggregate of six feet by six feet in
dimension may exceed height limits by a maximum of five feet. For additional
provisions, see Chapter 17.081 and Section
17.102.141.
   G.   All development fronting coastal bluffs and beaches shall be sited and
designed so as to reduce the impact of bulk and scale.
   H.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, maximum building heights in any zone
shall not exceed a maximum height for firefighting and rescue operations and
equipment as identified periodically by the fire chief.
   I.   Special Height Limitations--Ocean Fronting Parcels. Special height
limitations for ocean fronting parcels in the following planning areas shall be
as described below:
   1.   North Spyglass Planning Area. All structures on ocean fronting parcels
within one hundred twenty-five feet of the bluff shall be limited to twenty-
five feet above site grade. (Section
17.081.030(A))
   2.   Motel District Planning Area. All structures on ocean fronting parcels
within one hundred feet of the blufftop shall be limited to twenty-five feet
above site grade. (Section
17.081.030(B))
   3.   Commercial Core Planning Area. All structures on ocean fronting parcels
shall be limited to twenty-five feet in height above site grade. (Section
17.081.030(C)) (Ord. 94-04 § 4 (part)), 1994)
17.102.020 Minimum front yard requirements.
   The minimum front yard setbacks shall be as follows:
   A.   Residential.
   1.   In the A-E, R-1 and R-2 zones, each lot shall have a front yard setback
of not less than twenty feet.
   2.   In the R-3, R-4 and R-R zones, each lot shall have a front yard setback
of not less than fifteen feet.
   3.   In the C-R, M-H and G zone, the front yard setback shall be established
as per the use permit, but not less than fifteen feet.
   B.   Commercial. In the C-1, C-2 and C-M zones, the front yard setback shall
be established per the development permit. Each lot need not have any front
yard setback except when the side of such lot abuts a residential zone, in
which case the front yard setback shall be no less than ten feet.
   C.   P-R, OS-1 and OS-R. As established by the use permit, but not less than
fifteen feet.
   D.   Exceptions to Front Yard Setback Requirements in the R-1 Zone. The
minimum front yard setback required may be the lesser of the following
situations:
   1.   The average front yard setback of the nearest improved lots on each
side of the subject property on the same side of the street, but in no case
less than ten feet, nor required to be more than twenty feet; or
   2.   Twenty percent of the average depth of the subject property, but in no
case less than ten feet, nor required to be more than twenty feet.
   E.   Exceptions to Front Yard Setback Requirements for Residential Coastal
Blufftop Developments. In all residential zones abutting coastal bluffs, each
lot shall have a front yard, facing the street, of not less than fifteen feet.
17.102.030 Minimum side yard setback requirements.
   A.   Residential. In the A-E, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-R and M-H zones, each
corner lot shall have a street side yard setback of not less than twenty
percent of the lot width, but in no case shall the setback be less than seven
feet nor required to be more than ten feet. Interior lots shall have a side
yard setback of not less than ten percent of the lot width, but in no case
shall the setback be less than four feet nor required to be more than five
feet.
   B.   Commercial. In the C-1, C-2 and C-M zones each lot need not have any
side yard setbacks, unless otherwise required per the city's current building
standards and as otherwise necessary to protect adjacent residential uses.
   C.   P-R, OS-1, OS-R, C-R and G Zones. As established by the use permit, or
as further identified in the certified local coastal program land use plan.
17.102.040 Minimum rear yard setback requirements.
   A.   Residential. In the A-E, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-T and M-H zones each
corner and interior lot shall have a rear yard setback of not less than ten
percent of the average lot depth, but in no case shall the setback be less than
five feet nor be required to be more than ten feet.
   B.   Commercial. In the C-1, C-2 and C-M zones, each lot need not have any
rear yard setbacks, unless otherwise required per the city's current building
standards and as otherwise necessary to protect adjacent residential uses.
   C.   P-R, OS-1, OS-R, C-R and G zones as established by the use permit or as
further identified in the local coastal program land use plan.
17.102.050 Exceptions to minimum side or rear yard setback requirements for
coastal blufftop developments.
   All uses in any zone with side or rear yards abutting coastal bluffs and
beaches are subject to the standards adopted in the local coastal program land
use plan policies and programs. Development permitted in the areas reserved for
public beach access or recreation shall be limited to structures and facilities
designed to accommodate passive recreational use of the area, including but not
limited to stairways, benches, tables, refuse containers, bicycle racks, and
public parking facilities. In no case shall any development except public
access paths and public stairways be permitted within the bluff retreat
setbacks identified in site specific geologic studies, except as follows for R-
1 zones:
   A.   Ninety percent see-through, non-permanent, forty-two inch maximum
height fences may be permitted with a coastal permit, per Section
17.102.120.
   B.   Fences described above shall be designed and sited in such a manner as
to permit the easy removal or relocation of the structure in order to
continually maintain a five foot minimum setback from the top edge of the
bluff. A document to this effect shall be recorded with the title of the
property in a manner and format approved by the city attorney.
   C.   A site specific geologic study by a registered geologist shall be
prepared for structures permitted by subsection A above. This report shall
assess the impact of the development in the retreat area on the stability and
erosion of the bluff and shall make a finding that the proposed location would
not contribute to the erosion or failure of the bluff, or propose alternative
locations to achieve this result.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the building official to periodically review
all such fences, in bluff retreat areas to ensure that minimum bluff top
setbacks are maintained. Owners of properties receiving permits for these
improvements shall permit continuous, announced entry by the building official
to permit these periodic inspections.
17.102.060 Minimum lot size and/or area requirements for new lots.
   A.   A-E Zone. The minimum lot size shall be forty acres.
   B.   R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-R Zones. The minimum lot size for all lots created
after the date of adoption of this ordinance shall be five thousand sq. ft.
   C.   R-4 Zone. The minimum lot size shall be twenty thousand sq. ft.
   D.   C-1, C-2 and G Zones. The minimum lot size shall be as determined by
the use permit or development permit.
   E.   C-M Zone. The minimum lot size shall be ten thousand sq. ft.
   F.   M-H and C-R Zone. The minimum space size shall be as provided in the
guidelines established for the M-H and C-R zones. The minimum size for new
mobile home or recreational trailer/vehicle parks shall be two acres.
   G.   P-R Zone as established by the use permit, or as further identified in
the certified local coastal program land use plan.
   H.   OS-1 and OS-R Zones. There shall be no minimum lot area requirements
for an OS-1 or OS-R zone.
   I.   Development on Nonconforming Parcels. Development may be permitted on
non-conforming parcels subject to the architectural review procedure of Chapter
17.105.
   J.   Lot Merger. Until such time as contiguous nonconforming parcels are
merged by separate ordinance, no structure shall be erected on any
nonconforming contiguously owned residential parcels with a minimum individual
lot width of less than thirty feet, nor shall any structure be erected on
contiguously owned parcels less than five thousand sq. ft. and more than twenty
percent slope if said parcels were acquired from the owner or owners of record
of contiguous property or said contiguous owner or owners transferee after
October 12, 1976.
   K.   When a single development is proposed over two or more contiguously
owned, parcels, those parcels shall be required to be merged prior to the
issuance of a building permit, provided, however, for any parcels subject to a
bona fide lien or mortgage of record prior to the adoption of this ordinance
which would prevent merger, the city attorney may approve appropriate deed
restrictions which would adequately tie common uses. The planning commission
may exempt parcels from this requirement if merger is deemed inappropriate or
unnecessary, based on findings, and appropriate deed restrictions or easements
may be required, where appropriate, in lieu of lot merger, subject to the
approval by the city attorney of the documents.
17.102.070 Minimum lot width requirements for new lots.
   A.   A-E Zone. There shall be no minimum lot width.
   B.   R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-R Zone. Corner and interior lots are required to be
no less than fifty feet.
   C.   R-4 and C-M Zone. Corner and interior lots are required to be no less
than seventy-five feet.
   D.   M-H and C-R Zone. Corner and interior lots are required to be no less
than one hundred feet.
   E.   C-1, C-2, G and P-R Zones. Corner and interior lots shall be as
determined by the use permit or development permit.
17.102.080 Maximum allowable lot coverage for all structures.
   A.   A-E Zone. Total maximum lot coverage for subdivided parcels: Ten
percent.
   B.   R-1 and R-2 Zone. Total maximum lot coverage for subdivided parcels:
Fifty-five percent.
   C.   R-3, R-4 and R-R Zones. Total maximum lot coverage for subdivided
parcels: Fifty-five percent.
   D.   P-R Zone. Total maximum lot coverages, less existing road right of ways
and nonbuildable open space areas: As established by the use permit, not to
exceed forty percent, or as further identified in the certified local coastal
program land use plan.
   E.   M-H and C-R Zones. Total maximum lot coverages shall be as provided in
the guidelines established for the M-H and C-R zones.
   F.   C-1, C-2 and G Zones. Total maximum lot coverage: Eighty percent.
   G.   C-M Zone. Total maximum lot coverage: Thirty-three percent.
   H.   OS-1 and OS-R Zones. Maximum allowable lot coverage does not apply to
OS-1 and OS-R zones.
17.102.090 Maximum allowable total building floor area for all structures as a
percentage of lot area.
   A.   A-E Zone. Ten percent.
   B.   R-1 Zone. Eighty-six percent of the first two thousand seven hundred
square feet of lot area plus sixty percent of any lot area in excess of two
thousand seven hundred square feet.
   C.   R-2 Zone. Eighty percent, except that single-family houses shall be the
same as the R-1 zone.
   D.   R-3, R-4 and R-R Zones. One hundred twenty-five percent except that
single family houses shall be the same as the R-1 zone.
   E.   P-R Zone. As established by the Use Permit, or as further identified in
the certified local coastal program land use plan.
   F.   M-H and C-R Zones. As provided in the guidelines established for the M-
H and C-R zones.
   G.   C-1, C-2 and G Zones. Two hundred percent.
   H.   C-M Zone. Fifty percent.
   I.   OS-1 and OS-R Zones. See Section
17.051.030 for OS-1 requirements; buildings not permitted in OS-R zone. (Ord.
94-04 § 4 (part), 1994)
17.102.095 Minimum planting and vegetation area (as a percentage of total lot
area).
   Requirements (as a percentage of total lot area):
   A.   A-E Zone: Seventy-five percent.
   B.   R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-R Zones: Twenty percent.
   C.   P-R Zone: Forty percent.
   D.   M-H and C-R Zones: Thirty percent.
   E.   C-1, C-2, C-M and G Zones: Ten percent.
   F.   OS-1 and OS-R Zones: As established by the use permit and as further
identified in the general plan and certified local coastal program land use
plan.
17.102.100 Minimum lot area per family unit.
   A.   A-E Zone: Two units per lot.
   B.   R-1 Zone: One unit per buildable lot, or combination of buildable lots.
   C.   R-2 Zone: Two thousand sq. ft.
   D.   R-3 Zone: One thousand four hundred fifty sq. ft.
   E.   R-4 and R-R Zones Hotels and Motels. Five hundred sq. ft; Residential:
One thousand four hundred fifty sq. ft.
   F.   P-R Zone: As established by the use permit, or as further identified in
the certified local coastal program land use plan.
   G.   C-1 Zone (as secondary uses): Two thousand sq. ft.
   H.   M-H and C-R Zones: As established in the guidelines for M-H and C-
R zones.
17.102.110 Permitted public structures on coastal bluffs.
   Stairs, pipelines and similar facilities located on coastal bluffs are not
considered an accessory use and shall require a conditional use permit
consistent with the local coastal program land use plan.
17.102.115 Permitted private structures on coastal bluffs.
   With a coastal permit, shoreline protective devices such as sea walls,
revetments, groins, breakwaters, and rip-rap shall be permitted when necessary
to protect existing structures, coastal dependent uses and public beaches in
danger of erosion, and must be the least environmentally damaging alternative
that is feasible. Devices must be designed to eliminate or mitigate adverse
impacts on local shoreline sand supply. Design and construction of protective
devices shall respect to the degree possible natural land forms and shall be
constructed to minimize visual impacts.
17.102.120 Fences, hedges and walls.
   Fences, hedges and walls may be permitted in any district subject to the
following conditions:
   A.   Fences, hedges and walls up to six feet in height from existing grade
on the lot may be permitted within all required rear yards and interior side
yards.
   B.   No solid fences, hedges or walls over forty-two inches in height shall
be permitted in any front yard, or in the side yard or the street side of a
corner lot.
   C.   Open fences exceeding six feet in height to enclose tennis courts or
similar uses, when such fences enclose the rear half of a lot, may be erected
with the approval of the planning commission with an architectural review
permit.
   D.   Fences located in required bluff setback areas shall not exceed forty-
two inches in height and shall secure a coastal development permit. These
fences shall be non-permanent, removable and see-through. (See Section
17.102.050 for requirements.)
17.102.130 Swimming pools.
   Swimming pools, hot tubs, spas and associated equipment shall not be located
closer than five feet to any rear property line or side property line and shall
not create a nuisance. Such structures shall also be subject to required
blufftop setbacks as specified in the local coastal program land use plan. (See
Section
17.102.050.)
17.102.140 Accessory structures.
   Accessory structures in residential zones shall be a maximum of fifteen feet
in height and shall be located a minimum of twenty feet from the front property
line, ten feet from any rear property line, five feet from any side property
line and six feet from any other separate structure on the same lot. Such
structures shall also be subject to required bluff top setbacks as specified in
the local coastal program land use plan.
17.102.141 Microwave dish antennae.
   Microwave dish antennae may be erected in any R-1, R-2 or R-3 district
provided that the antennae is mounted on the ground and not on the roof of any
structure; that the height of the antennae does not exceed twelve feet above
the natural grade of the site; that the antennae is not located in the required
setback areas, in the front yard or in the street side yard unless screened
from view, and the property owner secures a zone clearance and building permit
or building department clearance.
17.102.142 Flagpoles.
   Flagpoles may be erected in any zoning district provided that the following
criteria is met:
   A.   The height of the flagpole shall be no greater than ten feet above the
allowed building height permitted on the property or a twenty foot pole, which
ever is greater.
   B.   On residential lots only, the setbacks for flagpoles shall be a minimum
of ten percent of the lot depth in the front yard setback, five percent of the
lot width in the side yard setback, and five percent of the lot depth in the
rear yard setback.
   C.   A building permit shall be required but without fee, in order to
support the flying of the American flag.
   D.   The size of the flag shall not exceed a maximum size of ten feet by
fifteen feet.
   E.   Flagpoles shall not interfere with line of sight from vehicles on
adjacent public streets. (Ord. 91-02 § 1, 1991)
17.102.145 Portable structures.
   Portable structures, but not including accessory structures defined in
Section
17.102.140, in residential zones including but not limited to pre-manufactured
storage sheds, etc., may be erected in residential zones subject to the
following criteria:
   A.   Maximum floor area: Eighty sq. ft. with any one wall length not to
exceed ten feet.
   B.   Maximum structure height: Eight feet.
   C.   Structure is located behind any required front yard setbacks.
   D.   Storage of hazardous materials and chemicals is prohibited.
   E.   A single structure per lot or unit is permitted. Any additional
portable structures shall comply with the requirements for accessory
structures; see Section
17.102.140 above.
   Structures that meet the criteria described above do not require a city
planning permit, provided, however, that any such structures shall also be
subject to required blufftop setbacks as specified in the local coastal program
land use plan.
17.102.150 Architectural features, regulations and restrictions.
   Architectural features may be permitted to extend into required setbacks a
maximum distance as described below:
   A.   Cornices, eaves, canopies and similar structures: Thirty inches into
any required front, side or rear yard, but in no case closer than two feet to
any side property line.
   B.   Fireplaces: Fireplaces not exceeding six feet in breadth may extend two
feet into any required front, side or rear yard, but in no case closer than
three feet to any side property line.
   C.   Open, uncovered raised porches, patios, landing places, decks, or
outside stairways in rear or side yards: May extend a distance not more than
twenty percent into the required rear or interior side yard setbacks. Street
side yard extensions may be a distance not to exceed forty percent of the
required street setback.
   D.   Cantilevered balconies and decks that are open, uncovered and raised
(thirty inches or more above existing grade): May extend a distance of not more
than 20 percent into the required front yard setback.
   E.   Open, uncovered porches, patios, decks, landing places, stairways or
similar structures at grade (structures less than 30 inches above existing
grade): May extend to the front, side, or rear property lines. (Except as
otherwise prohibited in Section
17.102.050 and
17.102.120 for bluff retreat areas.)
   F.   Covered or semi-covered (other than allowable roof overhangs)
balconies, porches, patios, landing places, decks, stairways or similar
structures: May not extend into required front, side or rear yard areas.
17.102.155 Site development standards for amateur radio antennas.
   A.   Standards for amateur radio antennas. All single pole/tower amateur
radio antennas shall be designed, constructed, maintained and permitted in the
following manner:
   1.   Definition. "Amateur radio antenna" means an antenna, or any
combination of a mast, tower, support structure, antenna array or guide wire
plus any additional attached or mounted antenna, which transmits or receives
noncommercial radio signals and is utilized by an operator licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission.
   2.   Setbacks.
   a.   Amateur radio antennas, antenna arrays, support structures, and guy
wires shall be located outside all front and side yard setbacks.
   b.   A minimum setback of five feet from the rear property line shall be
maintained for all amateur radio antennas, antenna arrays, support structures,
and guy wires.
   c.   Amateur radio antennas, antenna arrays, support structures and guy
wires shall be located outside the bluff top setback area for all lots located
within the Coastal Zone.
   3.   Height.
   a.   Amateur radio antennas shall be limited to the maximum height permitted
for structures (excluding the architectural features set forth in Section
17.20.040) within the zone district where they are located, plus an additional
fifteen feet. Antenna applications submitted in conformance with this
requirement shall require approval of an administrative zone clearance, issued
by the Community Development Director or his or her designee. All Zone
Clearance applications shall be accompanied by the submittal requirements
identified on the city's submittal checklist including notification materials.
   b.   Antennas that exceed the maximum height permitted in the zone district
shall be designed such that they can be easily lowered, either by motorized or
manual means, to a height not to exceed the maximum height permitted in the
zone district when not in use.
   c.   Antennas that are proposed to exceed the height identified in item 3a.
above shall require approval of a Conditional Use Permit. Antenna applications
submitted under this requirement shall be accompanied by technical information
that provides justification for the proposed height. The applicant shall be
required to fund any expert evaluation required by either the Community
Development Director or review authority.
   d.   Any antenna that exceeds the height permitted in the zone district
shall include a physical stop limiting the antenna height to that which the
review authority approves.
   4.   Safety.
   a.   All amateur radio antennas shall be located within a fenced yard/
enclosure or on a structure that is otherwise inaccessible to the general
public.
   b.   Sufficient anti-climbing measures shall be incorporated into the design
of all amateur radio antennas and support structures to reduce the potential
for possible trespass and injury. (Ord. O-2012-001 § 2, 2012)
Chapter 17.105 GENERAL PROVISIONS: CONDITIONS, ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW, EXEMPTIONS
AND FEES
17.105.010 General.
   All regulations in this Ordinance pertaining to the districts established by
Chapter 17.009 are subject to the general provisions, conditions and exceptions
contained in this chapter.
17.105.020 Ambiguity in classification.
   If any ambiguity arises concerning the appropriate classification of a
particular use within the meaning and intent of this ordinance, or with respect
to matters of height, area requirements or zone boundaries, the planning
commission shall ascertain all pertinent facts and shall set forth its findings
and interpretations and thereafter such interpretation shall govern, unless the
city council of the city of Pismo Beach directs the planning commission to
adopt a different interpretation.
17.105.030 Public utility distribution.
   Public utility distribution lines, poles and underground facilities for the
distribution of gas, water, communications and electricity shall be allowed in
all districts without the requirement for obtaining a use permit or development
permit when the utility lines are intended to service existing or nearby
approved developments. It shall be the responsibility of the city to review any
new utility distribution lines proposed to service a new development. This
review shall be conducted during the consideration of any use and/or
subdivision permits for a proposed development. All new transmission line
locations and routes shall be reviewed by the city, and shall be undergrounded.
All routes of proposed gas, water, communication and electric transmission
lines and towers shall be submitted to the planning commission for their review
and recommendation to the city council. The city council shall approve all such
transmission line routes and facilities. Such determination shall be completed
prior to the acquisition of rights-of-way therefore. Within the coastal zone,
those distribution and transmission lines and other facilities not otherwise
exempted under Section 30610 (d) and (f) of the Coastal Act, and as defined in
the State Coastal Commission's Interpretive Guidelines adopted September 5,
1978, shall obtain a coastal development permit pursuant to the procedures
above.
17.105.040 Existing and new above ground utility lines.
   Existing and proposed new above ground utility services shall be placed
underground whenever feasible. This requirement shall not apply to single
family homes and/or lots existing as of the date of adoption of this ordinance.
17.105.050 Unclassified districts.
   All lands now or hereafter included within the city of Pismo Beach
boundaries, which are not designated on the city's zoning map as being included
in any classified districts, are and shall be designated "U" or unclassified
districts excepting the case wherein the county's local coastal program
identifies a land use designation and zoning designation. In this event, the
county's designations and development standards in the coastal zone shall
prevail in the city until such time as the city receives coastal commission
certification for amended land uses and zoning designations.
17.105.060 Establishment of lot lines.
   Whenever an official plan line has been established for any street, required
yards shall be measured from such line and in no case shall the provisions of
this ordinance be construed as permitting any encroachment upon any official
plan line. The physical location of lot lines and required setbacks shall be
the responsibility of the property owner and not the city.
17.105.070 Grading and drainage plans.
   Grading and drainage plans shall be prepared and submitted to the public
services department and city engineer for review as required with proposed
development that increases surface runoff, alters natural drainage courses and
for development requiring grading plans by the Grading and Erosion Control
Ordinance (Title 18 of the Municipal Code of the city of Pismo Beach).
17.105.080 Views.
   It shall be the responsibility of the city to protect scenic views
consistent with the general plan/local coastal program land use plan and all of
its elements.
17.105.100 Service stations and garages.
   In addition to other criteria established for the development or expansions
of automotive service stations and garages, the following regulations shall
apply:
   A.   The entrance to service bays shall, where feasible, be oriented away
from or be screened from any adjacent streets;
   B.   All new and used merchandise shall be stored and displayed within the
service station or garage building or be screened from public view, except
tires, batteries and lubrication items which shall be maintained or stored in a
neat condition;
   C.   No used or discarded automotive parts or equipment or disabled, junked
or wrecked vehicles may be located outside the service station building or
garage unless located entirely within an approved screened storage area. In
addition, no house trailers, RV's or boats shall be stored the premises;
   D.   All hydraulic hoists and pits and all lubrication, greasing and
permitted repair equipment must be located entirely within the building. No
major automotive repair shall be permitted outside the structure;
   E.   All vehicles being repaired shall be parked on-site. There shall be no
unsightly storage of vehicles.
17.105.110 Topographic maps.
   Topographic maps shall be required with development applications, and shall
be to a scale as established by the Grading Ordinance. A topographic map shall
include a topographic description of the project site as well as a topographic
description to the center of any street(s) adjacent to the project site.
17.105.115 Visitor serving commercial conversions.
   Conversion of visitor serving lodging in R-4 and R-R zones to other non-
visitor serving types of uses shall be prohibited unless the cost of
rehabilitation is greater than fifty percent of the market value of the
structure or the city finds, based upon supporting data, that the existing use
can no longer be made economically viable.
17.105.120 Applications subject to architectural review.
   The following development applications are subject to architectural review:
   A.   Conditional use permits and development permits, except wherein no
structures, landscaping, parking and fences are proposed or where no such
improvements may be required;
   B.   Variance permits;
   C.   Architectural review permits;
   D.   Signs requiring planning commission approval;
   E.   Other items required by ordinance or general plan/local coastal program
land use plan.
17.105.130 Architectural review.
   Drawings, sketches and site plans for applications required for
architectural review under the provisions of Chapter 17.121 shall be considered
in an endeavor to provide that the architectural and general appearance of such
buildings or structures and grounds be in keeping with the character of the
neighborhood and such as not to be detrimental to the orderly and harmonious
development of the city, or to impair the desirability of investment or
occupation in the neighborhood, and that the project is consistent with the
goals, policies and programs of the local coastal program land use plan.
17.105.135 Development and design standards applicable to single-family
dwellings in certain zones.
   The following additional development and design standards shall be
applicable to the development, enlargement or alteration of single-family
dwellings in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-R Zones, except for the Pismo Heights
planning area as defined in the Pismo Beach general plan/local coastal plan:
   A.   To avoid "boxy" structures that have unrelieved exterior wall planes
extending in height for two or more stories and to promote vertical
articulation of wall planes, the amount of gross floor area on any second floor
shall not exceed eighty percent of the amount of gross floor area on the ground
floor. Any "stepbacks" of the second-floor living area from the building
footprint on the ground level shall be required to be provided at least in part
on the street-side of the house unless infeasible.
   B.   In order to attain compatibility with the existing scale and character
of the surrounding neighborhood, the development of new, and alteration of
existing, single-family dwellings should include design features or elements
that are similar or complementary to nearby residences, including but not
limited to the following: building form and mass, exterior materials, roof form
and style, and window shape and style.
   C.   The following design attributes are encouraged and shall be considered
by the planning commission, or staff in cases where it has decision-making
authority, in reaching decisions on architectural review permits:
   1.   Garages. Roll-up garage doors, or equivalent types of doors, shall be
required to maximize parking area on the driveway apron and to avoid
obstruction of sidewalks by parked vehicles.
   2.   Facade Articulation. Long expanses of uninterrupted exterior wall
planes should be avoided. Exterior wall planes should be relieved by: provision
of off-sets in wall planes; placement of windows; incorporation of porches,
balconies, trellises or decks; incorporation of trim, ornamentation or
architectural detailing appropriate to the building style; use of varied
textures and colors; and use of other design accents to soften the
architecture.
   3.   Roof Articulation. Long expanses of uninterrupted roof planes should be
avoided. Roof heights, planes and lines should be varied. Traditional roof
forms, especially gable and hip designs, should be used unless infeasible. Roof
features, such as dormers or clerestories, are encouraged. If flat or low-slope
roof forms are proposed, special care should be taken to assure compatibility
with, and minimize shading of, adjacent structures. (Ord. 94-04 § 5, 1994)
17.105.140 Solar energy.
   The planning commission shall encourage and may require projects to provide
either passive or active solar systems for water heating and space air
conditioning where feasible. The following techniques shall be explored:
   A.   Orientation of structures for maximum solar heat gain;
   B.   Proper location of roof overhangs and eves to maximize natural cooling
and heating;
   C.   Utilization of deciduous trees south of structures to provide for
natural cooling and heating;
   D.   Use of passive and active solar systems to provide room heating and
cooling needs as well as water heating. Examples include soar heating
greenhouses, trombe walls, solar panels and other proven solar technology.
17.105.143 Solar protection.
   The planning commission shall require that CC&R's adopted for new
residential development contain provisions for the protection of solar access
to any solar collection device required to be constructed by the city for that
development. Provisions to be enforced by the homeowners association shall
include requirements that new vegetation, walls or structures may not be
allowed to shade more than twenty percent of the average solar energy reaching
active or passive solar collecting devices during the hours of ten a.m. and
three p.m. Said solar collecting devices must be for the primary purpose of
providing space heating or cooling, or water heating for the residence or pool.
17.105.145 Energy conservation.
   The planning commission shall require all new residential structures to
provide for water and energy conserving devices consistent with applicable
state and federal laws. Examples of such measures shall include, but not be
limited to:
   A.   Low flow toilets, faucets and shower heads;
   B.   Additional insulation and weather stripping;
   C.   Drought residents plant materials;
   D.   High efficiency appliances and equipment; and
   E.   Other conserving measures using the latest technology.
17.105.150 Standards relating to the establishment, conduct and operation of
permitted uses within the city.
   A.   Radioactivity or Electric Disturbances. No activities shall be
permitted which emit radioactivity at any point which is dangerous to human
beings. Devices which radiate radio-frequency energy shall be so operated as
not to cause interference with any activity carried beyond the boundary line of
the property upon which the device is located. No radioactive fuel or waste
shall be stored or transferred within the city.
   B.   Fire and Explosion Hazards. All activities involving materials,
including storage thereof, shall be provided with adequate safety devices
against the hazard of fire and explosion, and adequate firefighting and fire
suppression equipment and devices standards in the industry. Burning of waste
materials in open fires is prohibited at any place. The relevant provisions of
state and local laws and regulations also apply.
   C.   Noise. At the lot or property line, the maximum sound pressure level
radiated in each standard octave band by any use or facility (other than
transportation facilities or temporary construction work) shall not exceed the
values for octave bands lying within the several frequency limits given in
Table 105-A. The sound pressure level shall be measured with a sound level
meter and associated octave band analyzer, conforming to standards prescribed
by the American Standards Association. (American Standard Sound Level Meters
for Measurement of Noise and Other Sounds, Z24.3-1944, American Standards
Association, Inc. New York, N.Y. and American Standard Specifications for an
Octave-Band Filter Set for the Analysis of Noise and Other Sounds, Z24.10-1953,
American Standards Association, Inc., New York, N.Y. shall be used.)
   Table 105A
 
Frequency Range Containing Octave Bands Octave Band Sound Pressure Level in dBs
in Cycles per second                  re 0.0002 dynes/cm2    
20-300                                  60
300-2400                                40
above 2400                              30
 
   If the noise is not smooth and continuous and is not radiated between the
hours of ten p.m. and seven a.m., one or more of the corrections in Table 105-
A shall be applied to the Octave band levels given in Table 105-A.
   Table 105-B
 
Type and Location of Operation or Character of Noise Correction in dBs   
a. Daytime operation only                              Plus 5
b. Noise source operated less than:
a. 20% of any one-hour period                          Plus 5
b. 5% of any one-hour period (apply one of these       Plus 10
corrections only)
c. Noise of impulsive character (such as hammering)    Minus 5
d. Noise of periodic character (such as hammering,     Minus 5
screeching or loud animal noises)
 
   D.   Vibration. No vibration shall be permitted to as to cause a noticeable
tremor measurable without instruments at the lot line.
   E.   Glare. No direct or reflected glare, whether produced by floodlight,
high temperature processes such as combustion or welding, or other processes,
so as to be visible from any boundary line of property on which the same is
produced shall be permitted. Sky-reflected glare from buildings or portions
thereof shall be so controlled by such reasonable means as are practical to the
end that the said sky-reflected glare will not inconvenience or annoy persons
or interfere with the use and enjoyment of property in and about the area where
it occurs.
   F.   Smoke. No emission shall be permitted at any point from any chimney or
otherwise of visible grey smoke or of a shade equal to or darker than No. 2 on
the Power's Micro-Ringlemann Chart published by the McGraw-Hill Publishing
Company, Inc., and copyright 1954 (being a direct facsimile reduction of a
standard Ringlemann Chart as issued by the United States Bureau of Mines)
except that visible grey smoke of a shade equal to No. 3 on said chart may be
emitted for four minutes in any thirty minutes.
   G.   Odors. No emission shall be permitted of odorous gases or other odorous
matter in such quantities as to be readily detectable when diluted in the ratio
of one volume of odorous air to four volumes of clean air, at the lot line. Any
process which may involve the creation or emission of any odors shall be
provided with a secondary safeguard system so that the control will be
maintained if the primary safeguard system should fail. There is hereby
established as a guide in determining such quantities of offensive odors, Table
III, "Odor Thresholds", in Chapter 5, "Air Pollution Abatement Manual",
copyright 1951 by Manufacturing Chemists' Association, Inc., Washington, D.C.
   G.   Fly Ash, Fumes, Vapors, Gases and Other Forms of Pollution. No emission
shall be permitted which can cause any damage to health, animals, vegetation,
or other forms of property, or which can cause any excessive soiling at any
point. No emissions shall be permitted in excess of the standards specified in
Table I, Section 5, "Industrial Hygiene Standards, Maximum Allowable
Concentrations," of the "Air Pollution Abatement Manual," copyright 1951 by the
Manufacturing Chemists' Association, Inc., Washington, D.C. In no event shall
any emission from any chimney or otherwise, of any solid or liquid particles in
concentrations, exceed three-tenths grains per cubic foot of the conveying gas
at any point. For measurement of the amount of particles in gases resulting
from combustion, standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature
of 500 degrees Fahrenheit and fifty percent excess air.
   H.   Liquid or Solid Wastes. No discharge at any point to any public sewer,
private sewage disposal system, or stream, or into the ground, except in
accordance with the standards approved by the California Department of Public
Health or standards equivalent to those approved by such department for similar
uses, of any materials of such nature or temperature as can contaminate any
water supply, interfere with bacterial processes in sewage treatment, or
otherwise cause the emission of dangerous or offensive elements shall be
permitted.
17.105.153 Adult businesses.
   Where allowed by Chapter 17.045 (General Commercial (C-2) Zone), any adult
business as defined by Chapter 17.006 (Definitions) of this Zoning Code shall
be subject to the provisions of this section.
   A.   Purposes. This section is intended to prevent the adverse effects,
including adverse economic impacts, increased crime, decreased property values,
and the deterioration of neighborhoods, which can result from the concentration
or clustering of adult businesses. It has been demonstrated in various
communities, and such demonstrations are relevant to the city of Pismo Beach,
that when several adult businesses are located in close proximity to each other
or are close to other incompatible uses such as schools for minors, churches,
and residentially-zoned districts or uses, the concentration of adult-oriented
businesses causes an increase in the number of transients in the area, an
increase in crime and, in addition to the above impacts, can cause other
businesses and residents to move elsewhere.
   Therefore, the purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of adult-oriented businesses
and their close proximity to incompatible uses, while permitting the location
of adult-oriented businesses in certain areas.
   B.   Finding. Performance standards are a legitimate and reasonable means of
ensuring that adult businesses are conducted in a manner so as to minimize
their adverse secondary effects and to help assure that such operators and
businesses comply with reasonable regulations related to such requirements, to
minimize control problems associated with such businesses and thereby protect
the health, safety and welfare of city residents, protect citizens from
increased crime, preserve the quality of life, preserve property values and the
character of surrounding neighborhoods and businesses, and deter the spread of
urban blight. The performance standards contained in this chapter do not
unreasonably restrict the establishment or operation of constitutionally
protected adult businesses in the city.
   The city council, in adopting performance standards, recognizes that these
standards do not preclude reasonable alternative avenues of communication. The
city council takes note of the proliferation of adult material on the Internet
and its availability as an alternative avenue of communication. The city
council also considers and relies on published decisions examining the
proliferation of communications on the Internet (Reno v. American Civil
Liberties Union, 521 U.S. 844; Anheuser-Busch v. Schmoke, 101 F. 3d 325; U.S.
v. Flockings, 129 F. 3d 1069; U.S. Thomas, 74 F. 3d 701). The emergence of the
Internet brings with it a virtually unlimited additional source of adult-
oriented sexual materials available to interested persons in every community.
An adult business no longer has to be physically located in a city to be
available in the community.
   C.   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to uses operated as
adult businesses, as defined in Chapter 17.62, in addition to all other
applicable requirements of this Zoning Code. The establishment of an adult use
shall include the opening of such business as a new business, the relocation of
such business, the conversion of an existing business location to any adult
use, or the granting of permits required of masseurs and masseuses which would
have the effect of the establishment of an adult use or the intensification of
an existing adult use.
   P.   Location Requirements. Adult businesses shall be located no closer
than:
   1.   Five hundred feet to any:
   a.   Property in a residential zoning district;
   b.   Child day care facility;
   c.   School attended by minor children;
   d.   Park, playground;
   e.   Religious place of worship;
   f.   Public building or other public facility likely to be used by minors;
existing as of March 1, 2005.
   2.   One thousand feet to any other adult business.
   Exemption. Adult businesses may be located within a shopping center, even
when the business site does not meet the distance requirement in subsection (D)
(1) of this section.
   E.   Measurement. For the purpose of this chapter, all distances shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard for intervening structures, using
the closest property lines of the parcels of the land involved.
   F.   Design and Performance Standards. The establishment or operation of an
adult-business shall comply with the applicable fees and site development
standards, including, but not limited to, parking and design review, and the
requirements of the Uniform Codes and building regulations and standards
adopted by the city of Pismo Beach.
   An adult business shall comply with the following design and performance
standards:
   1.   Signs and Advertising. Signs, advertisements, displays, or other
promotional materials depicting or describing "specified anatomical areas" or
"specified sexual activities", as defined in Chapter 17.006, or displaying
instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection
with "specified sexual activities" shall not be shown or exhibited so as to be
discernible by the public beyond the walls of the building or portion thereof
in which the adult entertainment business is conducted.
   2.   Entrances. Each adult business shall have a business entrance separate
from any other non-adult business located in the same building.
   3.   Screening.
   a.   All building openings, entries, and windows for an adult entertainment
business shall be located, covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent a
view into the interior of an adult entertainment business from any area open to
the general public.
   b.   No adult entertainment business shall be operated in any manner that
permits the observation by the public of any material or activity depicting,
describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" from any public way or from any location beyond the walls of
the building or portion thereof in which the adult entertainment business is
conducted.
   5.   Prohibition of Minors--Posting. The building entrance to the adult
entertainment business shall be clearly and legibly posted with a notice
indicating that minors are precluded from entering the premises. No persons
under the age of eighteen years shall be permitted within the premises at any
time.
   6.   Noise. No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used by an adult
business for amplification of sound to a level discernible by the public beyond
the walls of the building or portion thereof in which the adult entertainment
business is conducted.
   7.   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided for the adult
entertainment business in compliance with Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading).
   8.   Operating Standards. See Title 9 of the Municipal Code for additional
requirements for businesses providing live entertainment depicting specified
anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities.
   9.   Security Program. An off-site security program shall be prepared and
implemented including the following:
   All off-street parking areas and building entries serving the adult
entertainment business shall be illuminated during all hours of operation with
a lighting system which provides a minimum maintained horizontal illumination
of one foot- candle (ten luxes, one candlepower) of light on the parking
surface and/or walkway. The required lighting level is established to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas ands walkways serving the adult
business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the
incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct.
   G.   Application Requirements. In addition to the submittal of a business
license application to the finance department, the following must be submitted
to the police department for a determination of compliance with Title 9 of the
Municipal Code:
   1.   The name and permanent address of applicant;
   2.   The name and proposed business address of the applicant. If the
applicant is a corporation, the name be exactly as set forth in its articles of
incorporation and the applicant shall show the name and residence address of
each of the officers, directors, and each stockholder owning not less than
twenty-five percent of the stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a
partnership, the application shall show the name and residence address of each
of the members, including limited partners;
   3.   A detailed description of the proposed entertainment, including type of
entertainment and number of persons engaged in the entertainment;
   4.   A diagram of the premises showing a floor plan thereof specifying where
the specific entertainment uses are proposed to be conducted within the
building, the location of one or more manager's stations, the location of all
overhead lighting, fixtures, and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted;
   5.   Hours of operation and the admission fee, if any, to be charged;
   6.   The name or names of the person or persons who have the management of
supervision responsibilities of the applicant's business and of any
entertainment;
   7.   A statement of the nature and character of the applicant's business if
any, to be carried on in conjunction with such entertainment;
   8.   A site area map showing the proposed business location and plotting of
all uses listed.
   9.   A mailing list of all property owners within one thousand feet of the
proposed business location.
   Prior to the issuance of a police clearance, the police department shall
complete a background investigation of all parties identified in subsections
(G)(1) and (G)(2) of this section.
   H.   Inspections. An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of
the police, health, building, fire, and public services departments, or other
city departments or agencies, to inspect the premises of an adult business for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law and the development standards
applicable to adult business, at any time it is occupied or opened for
business. A person who operates an adult business or his or her agent or
employee is in violation of the provisions of this section if he or she refuses
to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or
opened for business.
   I.   Amortization of Nonconforming Adult Oriented Uses. Any use of real
property existing on or before the date when this amendment becomes effective
that did not conform to the provisions of this section, but which was
constructed, operated and maintained in compliance with all previous
regulations, shall be regarded as a nonconforming use which may be continued
until two years from date of adoption. On or before such date, all such
nonconforming uses shall be terminated unless an extension of time has been
approved by the hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of subsection
J of this section.
   1.   Abandonment. Notwithstanding the above, any discontinuance or
abandonment of the use of any lot or structure as an adult oriented business
shall result in a loss of legal nonconforming status of such use.
   2.   Amortization--Annexed Property. Any adult oriented business which was
in legal use at the time of annexation of the property and which is located in
the city, but which does not conform to the provisions of this section shall be
terminated within one year of the date of annexation unless an extension of
time has been approved in accordance with the by provisions of subsection J of
this section.
   J.   Extension of Time for Termination of Nonconforming Use. The owner or
operator of a nonconforming adult business use as described in subsection I of
this section, may apply under the provisions of this section for an extension
of time within which to terminate the nonconforming use.
   1.   Time and Manner of Application. An application for an extension of time
within which to terminate a use made nonconforming by the provisions of this
section may be filed by the owner of the real property upon which such use is
operated, or by the operator of the use. Such an application must be filed with
the city clerk at least thirty days but no more than one hundred eighty days
prior to the time established in subsection I of this section, for termination
of such use or within sixty days of the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, whichever date is the last to occur.
   2.   Content of Application--Fees. The application shall state the grounds
for requesting an extension of time. The filing fee for such application shall
be the same as that for a variance as is set forth in the schedule of fees
established by resolution from time to time by the city council.
   3.   Hearing Procedure. The city manager or his/her designee shall set the
matter for hearing by the planning commission within a reasonable time. Pending
a final determination on the application, the applicant may continue to
operate, but such right does not excuse compliance with regulatory provisions
of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code. All parties involved shall have the right to
offer testimonial, documentary and tangible evidence bearing on the issues and
may be represented by counsel. Any relevant evidence may be admitted that is
the sort of evidence upon which reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in
the conduct of serious affairs. Any hearing under this section may be continued
for a reasonable time for the convenience of a party or a witness. The decision
of the planning commission may be appealed to the city council. Any decision of
the city council shall be final and subject to judicial review pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1094.8.
   4.   Approval of Extension--Findings. An extension under the provisions of
this section shall be for a reasonable period of time commensurate with the
investment involved, not to exceed two years, and shall be approved only if the
planning commission makes all of the following findings or such other findings
as are required by law:
   a.   The applicant has made a substantial investment (including but not
limited to lease obligations) in the property or structure on or in which the
nonconforming use is conducted. Such property or structure cannot be readily
converted to another use, and such investment was made prior to the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter;
   b.   The applicant will be unable to recoup said investment as of the date
established for termination of the use; and
   c.   The applicant has made good faith efforts to recoup the investment and
to relocate the use to a location in conformance with this section.
   K.   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or
provision or this chapter or the application thereof to any person, property or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and application of
such to other persons, properties or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.
   L.   Violations. It shall be unlawful to establish or operate an adult
entertainment business in violation of this chapter. Any person who violates
any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed or constituted to prevent the city from commencing any
civil proceeding otherwise authorized by law for the declaration or abatement
of a public nuisance. (Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-010 § 1
(Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.105.155 Residential development permit coordination.
   The Public Services Department Residential Projects in the City of Pismo
Beach. The department shall coordinate the review of and provide information
about the status of all local permits for all residential projects. A service
charge may be designated by the city planner for such service based on time and
materials costs.
17.105.160 Filing.
   Projects shall not be deemed filed until all materials, plot plans,
elevations, grading plans and other necessary information have been received by
the planning department. The planning department shall indicate upon the file
copy of the tentative map and accompanying data the date of filing. Not later
than thirty calendar days after the city has received an application for a
development, the city shall determine in writing whether such application is
complete and shall immediately transmit such determination to the applicant for
such project. If the written determination is not made within the
aforementioned thirty days, the application shall be deemed complete.
17.105.165 Time limits.
   The city shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove within one year
after the date of filing (see Section
17.105.160), any development applications other than subdivisions. Subdivision
applications shall be approved, conditionally approved or disapproved within
fifty days after the filing thereof or within one year of the date of filing if
an environmental impact report or additional information is required.
Applications for tentative tract or parcel maps (subdivisions) in all zones
(except R-1 zones) must be accompanied with an approved development permit or
conditional use permit, in addition to other applicable submittal requirements.
The application for the tentative tract or parcel map will not be deemed
complete for filing purposes until such time as the associated development
permit or conditional use permit has been approved for the proposed
development. In the event the city fails to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove a development application within the time periods stated above, such
failure to act shall be deemed to be approval of the project, provided however,
the city reserves the right to complete any environmental determinations in
process at the time of approval and place conditions on said development to
ensure that the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act, the
city's adopted environmental guidelines, zoning ordinance and general plan are
met. Extensions of time limits, as stated above, may be made upon the consent
of the city and the applicant.
17.105.170 Fees.
   A fee schedule shall be adopted by resolution of the city council of Pismo
Beach and amended as necessary to reflect current costs of processing.
17.105.180 Posting.
   Notice of the required public hearings shall be given as provided by law. In
addition, the city planner may notice for public hearings other items deemed to
be of public concern.
17.105.190   Proximity limitations.
    To the extent that the following uses are permitted in a certain zone
pursuant to Title 17 of this code, whether by right or as a conditional use,
such uses shall also be subject to the limitation that each instance of the use
must be located at least one thousand (1,000) feet away from any like
establishment. One thousand feet shall be the minimum linear distance between
the closest points along the boundaries of the parcel upon which the existing
use is located and the parcel upon which the additional use is proposed,
respectively, as determined by the Community Development Director or designee.
   A.   Check-cashing establishment.
   B.   Gold and silver exchange.
   C.   Massage establishment–primary.
   D.   Pawn shop.
   E.   Resale establishment.
   F.   Smoke shop.
   G.   Tattoo establishment. (Ord. O-2019-006 § 7, 2019)
Chapter 17.106 STANDARDS FOR PLACING MOBILE HOMES ON SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
LOTS
17.106.010 Purpose.
   It is the purpose of this section to, where specifically designated, allow
the placement of mobile homes as well as single family residences on
individual, single family residential lots. These homes would be required to
conform to the criteria set forth in this Title.
17.106.020 Applicability.
   A mobile home which has been placed on a foundation system pursuant to this
Title shall be deemed to be a mobile home and subject to local property
taxation pursuant to Section 18551 of the Health and Safety Code and Section
109.7 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
17.106.030 Permit.
   A mobile home or a single family residence on a foundation system on an
eligible lot under the terms of this Title shall be permitted upon approval of
the city of Pismo Beach architectural review committee.
17.106.040 Eligibility for mobile homes.
   A mobile home shall not be located on a lot so designated by this Title
unless it:
   1.   Has been certified under the National Mobile Home Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.) and shall have
been constructed after October of 1976;
   2.   The mobile home shall be placed on a foundation system pursuant to
Section 18551 of the Health and Safety Code; and
   3.   The proposed placement is within a single family residential lot area;
   4.   The existing lot is less than five percent slope.
17.106.050 General criteria.
   Mobile homes and single family residences located on a specified foundation
and designated area as established by this Title shall:
   A.   Be occupied primarily as a residential use type;
   B.   Be attached to a foundation pursuant to all applicable building
regulation and Section 18551 of the Health and Safety Code;
   C.   All such structures shall be reviewed for compatibility with existing
neighborhood residences and on lots of less than five thousand square feet and
shall be subject to architectural review including the following standards:
   1.   Style, compatibility;
   2.   Colors and textures;
   3.   Bulk and scale;
   4.   Roof and siding material;
   5.   Roof overhangs;
   6.   Enclosures;
   7.   Other factors deemed appropriate.
   D.   Place on lots conforming to all zoning ordinance requirements
(including but not limited to setbacks, heights, access, parking, etc.) for the
single family residential lot area.
17.106.060 Specific architectural review criteria.
   A.   Style, Compatibility. All residences shall be reviewed for consistency
for style and compatibility with the predominant architectural character of the
immediate neighborhood where the location is proposed
   B.   Colors and Textures. Colors and textures shall be reviewed for overall
aesthetics in a manner consistent with the unit and standard architectural
review committee standards.
   C.   Bulk and Scale. The bulk and scale of all residential units shall be
reviewed for appropriateness in its proposed locations consistent with
conventional reviews by the architectural review committee.
   D.   Roof and Siding Materials. Roof: Roof material shall be that
customarily used on conventional housing such as but not limited to shingles,
tile, etc. Siding: The exterior siding material shall be stucco or wood or
other similar materials commonly used on conventional housing and shall extend
to the ground, except that when a solid concrete or masonry perimeter
foundation is used, the exterior covering material need not extend below the
top of the foundation.
   E.   Roof overhangs. Roof overhangs and pitches shall be consistent with the
surrounding neighborhood.
   F.   Enclosures. Enclosures such as garages, carports or utility buildings
consistent with single family residential requirements shall be compatible with
the residence.
Chapter 17.108 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
17.108.010 Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion and to
maintain the availability of public streets for the safe movement of vehicles.
At the time any main building or structure is erected, enlarged or increased in
capacity, there shall be provided either on the same site or some reasonably
and conveniently located site, adequate parking, loading, turning and
maneuvering space to accommodate substantially such needs as are generated by
the use. It is also the purpose of this chapter to ensure that adequate off-
street parking is provided so that the public use of on-street parking is not
impaired by excessive parking demands of new developments.
17.108.020 Minimum off-street parking requirements.
   Minimum off-street parking requirements shall be as follows:
   A.   Single Family and Duplex Structures. Two parking spaces per dwelling,
both of which must be within a garage, except that no more than one space shall
be required to be within a garage if the parcel area is less than two thousand
seven hundred square feet.
   B.   Triplex, Apartment Structures, Planned Residential Developments and
Condominiums. Two parking spaces per dwelling which may be permitted in parking
courts, carports, or garages. Parking for multiple unit developments with one
bedroom and studio units of less than six hundred sq. ft. in living area shall
be required to provide one and one-half parking spaces per living unit. When
provided in parking courts, the parking courts shall be subject to
architectural review. For residential projects of eight to fifty units, one
guest parking space shall be provided for every four units. For residential
developments in excess of fifty units, one guest parking space shall be
provided for every two units.
   C.   Boarding and Lodging Homes. One off-street parking space is required
for each sleeping room; or one parking space per one hundred square feet of
actual sleeping area, whichever is greater.
   D.   Lodges and Clubs and Convention Facilities. One off-street parking
space for each four seats in an assembly hall plus one parking space for every
thirty square feet of area in main auditorium not occupied by permanent seats.
   E.   Mobile Home Parks. Two parking spaces for each site, one of which must
be covered when mobile home is in place. One parking space for every four units
shall be provided for visitor and RV parking.
   F.   Hotels, Motels. One parking space per sleeping room; plus one
management/employee/guest space for every twenty rooms with a minimum of an
additional two spaces.
   1.   Dining, meeting and convention combined with hotel/motel: One parking
space for each one hundred fifty sq. ft. of dining room area.
   2.   Special parking provisions: such as tandem valet parking, for major
hotels and motels may be considered by the planning commission with conditional
use permit, provided sufficient guarantees for enforcement are made to ensure
that (i) the valet system will continue to operate with the use; (ii) the valet
activity is in a controlled area and (iii) the total number of spaces required
with the development will be accommodated at all times.
   3.   RV parking spaces: RV parking spaces should be considered in the
parking layout.
   G.   Dining and Cocktail Lounges.
   1.   One space for every seventy-five sq. ft. of dining, waiting, and
outdoor dining area.
   2.   For dining places with a take-out window, two additional parking spaces
are required.
   H.   Children's Homes, Homes for the Aged, Hospitals And Other Similar Care
Facilities. One parking space per every three beds, plus one parking space for
each employee on the largest shift.
   I.   New Elderly Housing (Residential development exclusively for use by the
elderly): One parking space per unit. Guaranteed transportation service
provided by the development for residents could further reduce parking
requirements.
   J.   Churches, Mortuaries. One parking space for every four fixed seats,
plus one space for every thirty square feet of area in the main sanctuary of
worship not occupied by permanent seats.
   K.   Elementary Schools. One parking space for each classroom, plus one
space for every thirty-five square feet of seating area where there are no
fixed seats in the auditorium and one parking space per each five fixed seats.
   L.   High Schools. Five spaces per classroom plus one space per five fixed
seats or one space per thirty-five square feet of seating area where there are
no fixed seats in an auditorium and one parking space per each five fixed
seats.
   M.   Commercial, Retail General, And Offices Other Than Medical. One space
for every three hundred sq. ft. of gross floor area shall be required.
   N.   Furniture Stores. One space per eight hundred square feet of gross
floor area plus one space per every two employees on the largest shift.
   O.   Public, or Quasi Public Facilities. One space per employee; plus one
space per four hundred square feet of gross floor area.
   P.   Industrial and Warehouses. One space per one thousand sq. ft. gross
floor area or one space for each company vehicle.
   Q.   Medical and Dental Offices. One space per three hundred sq. ft. gross
floor area; plus one space for every two employees on the largest shift.
   R.   Automobile Service Stations. One parking space for each wash rack; and
one parking space for each employee on the largest shift.
   S.   Pinball Arcade and Similar Use. One space per two hundred fifty sq. ft.
gross floor area; plus one space for every two employees on the largest shift.
   T.   Health Spas. Figure Salons. One space per two hundred sq. ft. gross
floor area; plus one space for every two employees on the largest shift.
   U.   Laundromats. One space per every three washers.
   V.   Plant Nursery. One space per six hundred sq. ft. of sales area; plus
one space per every two employees on the largest shift.
   W.   Automobile Sales Lots. One space per two thousand sq. ft. of both
exterior and interior gross sales area. Parking spaces for repair shop are same
for service station, plus one space per two employees on the largest shift.
   X.   Commercial Recreation Activities:
   1.   Tennis, Racquetball and Similar Activities. One and one-half spaces per
court, plus one space per each two employees on the largest shift.
   2.   Golf. Two spaces per hole; plus two space per each employee on the
largest shift. This does not include parking required for dining, commercial
and other uses. (See appropriate categories).
   3.   Pools and other related facilities to be based upon use and the
determination of the planning commission.
   4.   Bowling. Two spaces per lane plus one space per lane plus one space for
each two employees. This does not include other uses within the establishment,
which must be considered in addition to these requirements.
   Y.   Dance Halls, Skating Rinks and Exhibition Halls. One space per one
hundred sq. ft. of gross building area.
   Z.   Theaters. One space per every four seats.
   AA.   Common or Joint Use Parking: Total parking requirements for common or
joint use facilities shall be the sum of the parking requirements for all uses,
excluding residential uses. Developments may utilize joint parking upon a
finding by the planning commission that parking demands vary for uses during a
typical day. Partial reductions in parking requirements may be deemed
appropriate in such cases (i.e., evening theaters and professional offices). In
no case shall the reduction exceed fifteen percent of the sum of all parking
requirements computed separately.
   BB.   Other. All uses not specifically provided for herein shall prepare a
site plan of parking space numbers, size and location and submit it to the
Planning Commission to determine appropriate and current needs required by that
specific use. In public assembly uses parking must be considered at a ratio of
one to three with the legal seating capacity of the building. (Ord. 2005-10 § 2
(Exh. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 94-04 § 6, 1994: Ord. 92-06 § 1, 2006)
17.108.025 Off-street loading and unloading spaces.
   Commercial uses involving the sale, retail or wholesale, exchange or storage
of manufacturers merchandise or non-useable personal property are required to
provide permanently maintained off-street loading and unloading space which are
as follows:
Gross Floor Area Spaces Required   
Gross Floor Area           Spaces Required   
Under 3000 sq. ft.           0 spaces
3,001 to 30,000 sq. ft.      1 space
30,001 to 90,000 sq. ft.     2 spaces
90,001 to 150,000 sq. ft.    3 spaces
150,001 to 230,000 sq. ft.   4 spaces
In excess of 230,000 sq. ft. 4 spaces, plus one space for each 80,000 sq. ft.
Trucks:                      Tractor-trailer spaces shall be 12 ft. by 45 ft.
                             with an apron space of 49 feet; see Figure 108-1.
 
   Figure l08-l
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5894.jpg]
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
Timesaver Standards: "Truck Terminals--Docking Facilities" by American Trucking
Associations, Copyright 1966. Used with the permission of McGraw-Hill Book
Company.
17.108.030 General requirements of parking areas.
   A.   Residential.
   1.   Driveway and access to parking spaces for residential zones shall not
be less than ten feet in width for up to three units, and all spaces shall be
located on the same lot as the dwelling that they are to serve. For four or
more units, two-way driveway access must be provided and must be at least
twenty-four feet in width.
   2.   Parking spaces may not be located in yard setback areas for conforming
lots.
   3.   A residential use may not generate more vehicles than can be
accommodated on the site per the requirements of this section.
   4.   All residential parking spaces shall be the minimum dimensions
established by Table 108-A.
   5.   All residential driveways shall not exceed a twenty percent slope.
   6.   Residential garage entrances fronting on the lot line in all zones
shall be located a distance of not less than twenty percent of the depth of the
lot, not to exceed twenty feet.
   7.   Tandem parking spaces are allowed in the following circumstances:
   a.   On single-family residential lots when the planning commission or
director finds that:
   (i)   Existing conditions or terrain on the property present unusual
circumstances, justifying the approval of tandem parking;
   (ii)   The tandem space(s) is (are) appropriately located on the site;
   (iii)   The use of tandem spaces will not jeopardize the health, safety, or
welfare of persons in the neighborhood;
   (iv)   The use of tandem spaces will result in a better project than would
otherwise be feasible; and
   (v)   Any two spaces in tandem are under the control of one person or group
living together.
   B.   Commercial.
   1.   Size.
   a.   Standard. Each interior standard commercial off-street parking space
shall be at least nine feet by twenty feet, exclusive of drives and aisles, and
end spaces shall be ten feet in width (see Table 108-A for Standard Parking Lot
Dimensions).
   b.   Compact Cars. Commercial compact car spaces at a size of nine feet by
sixteen feet exclusive of drives and aisles shall be acceptable as a required
parking space, but must be marked as a compact car space. The ratio of compact
car spaces to standard car spaces shall not exceed one in three (see Table 108-
B for Compact Car Parking Lot Dimensions).
   c.   All spaces must have direct access to a driveway to the street.
   d.   Table 108-A and 108-B Alternative Criteria. The city engineer may
approve alternate criteria to those in Table 108-A and 108-B, provided the
alternative proposed will provide adequate driveway width and parking space
consistent with industry standards.
   2.   Bumper Guards and Wheel Stops. Permanent bumper guards or wheel stops
shall be provided for parking spaces located adjacent to walls, fences,
buildings, landscaping, etc., to prevent damage to any such objects or
landscaped areas. However, if a landscaping curb is used in lieu of a wheel
stop, it must be of sufficient width so as not to damage landscaping for a
minimum of twelve inches, and must not encroach into the required space area
more than twenty-four inches at front of parking space.
   3.   Location, Commercial. Parking spaces will be located on the same lot or
parcel as the building or use that they are to serve or within three hundred
accessible feet from the building or use; except when parking is leased from
the city or as otherwise provided in Section
17.108.040.
   4.   Improvements.
   a.   Paving. All parking areas, maneuvering areas, turnaround areas, and any
other driveway used for access thereto shall be paved with concrete in
accordance with ASTMC-143; or asphalt type surfacing compacted to a minimum
thickness of two inches, laid over a base of crushed rock, gravel, or similar
material compacted to a minimum thickness of four inches, unless the city
engineer deems that higher standards are necessary due to special soil or slope
conditions or larger traffic loads; or the planning commission may approve
alternate materials and specifications in lieu of the foregoing requirements
and/or greater standards. The planning commission may also require
substantiating evidence provided by a soils engineer.
   b.   Drainage. Parking and circulation areas shall be provided with adequate
drainage as approved by the Public Works Director.
   c.   Peripheral Wall. A parking lot which abuts another parcel or portions
of the same parcel that is zoned residential shall be separated from said
parcel by a decorative wall. The wall shall be forty-two inches in height in
the area from the front property line to the depth of the required front yard
setback. The one wall shall be six feet in height between the front yard
setback line and the rear line of the parking area on the lot.
   d.   Lighting. Any lights used to illuminate such parking area or vehicle
sales area shall be designed and placed in a manner that the area of
illumination shall not be cast beyond the property lines. The minimum light
cast upon the paved area shall be 0.3 foot candles and the maximum shall not
exceed 1.0 foot candles. Lighting systems and lights that conserve energy must
be considered in the design.
   5.   Driveway Access
   a.   Each entrance and exit to a parking lot shall be constructed and
maintained so that any vehicle entering or leaving the parking lots shall be
clearly visible at a distance of not less than ten feet to a person approaching
such entrance or exit on any pedestrian walk or footpath or from an approaching
vehicle based on the following criteria:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5899.jpg]
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
   b.   Driveways to and from parking lots and parking structures shall be a
maximum slope of fifteen percent. A five percent deviation to the fifteen
percent slope maybe allowed to provide for adequate sight distance if approved
by the city engineer. A driveway profile shall be required for the city
engineer to evaluate and determine adequate exit, entrance, and landing area
adjacent to the sidewalk prior to project approval.
   c.   Exits from parking lots and garages shall be clearly posted with stop
signs on the pavement.
   d.   Appropriate additional signs shall be maintained where needed and as
required by the city planner.
   6.   Amount of Landscaping for Parking Lots. Seven percent of any open
parking or driveway areas containing parking spaces for not more than twenty-
one vehicles shall be landscaped. Ten percent of any open parking and driveway
areas containing more than twenty-one parking spaces shall be landscaped and
landscaping shall be distributed through the entire parking area as evenly as
possible and as required by the planning commission.
   7.   Landscaping Along Property Lines for Parking Lots. A three foot wide
landscape strip, with planting maintained at either a height of two and one-
half feet or a height determined acceptable by Architectural Review will be
provided along the property lines adjacent to any public or private street or
alley (except within the approved exit and entrance ways) whenever the parking
or circulation abuts these streets.
   8.   Plantings Around Driveways for Parking Lots. Any of the following
driveways or open parking areas shall be separated by a planting strip three
feet wide:
   a.   Where there are two or more parking lots or vehicles adjacent to one
another which do not use a common driveway;
   b.   Where a parking lot for vehicles abuts a driveway which does not
provide access to that parking lot;
   c.   All landscaped areas shall be enclosed within a brick or masonry
planter box or concrete curb not less than six inches high and shall be
provided with a permanent sprinkler system or as determined by architectural
review.
   d.   Eight copies of separate landscape and irrigation plans meeting the
city's standards and requirements shall be submitted for architectural review
and approval before the issuance of a building permit.
   C.   Layout. Parking lots with four or more spaces must be designed so that
automobiles will not back up onto public streets and will have at least one
entrance and exit.
   D.   Hammerheads or other such turnarounds may be required by the planning
commission for dead-end driveways. The dimensions of the hammerhead shall be
adequate to meet the requirements of the public works and fire departments.
   E.   Use Change Within Existing Buildings. Within any building existing at
the date of adoption of this ordinance located in a commercial, resort
commercial or resort residential zone, new permitted commercial uses will be
allowed by the city without the requirement for additional parking spaces.
Major reconstruction (of over fifty percent) and/or expansions of buildings
existing at the date of adoption of this Title shall be required to provide
additional parking for the area of expansion and/or reconstruction based on the
current parking requirements. (Ord. O-2016-004 § 17, 2016: Ord. 2005-10 § 2
(Exh. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 2004-03 § 1 (Exh. A (part)), 2004)
17.108.040 Waivers for new construction.
   The purpose of this provision is to encourage the rehabilitation and
expansion of existing and new commercial uses in the vicinity of the downtown
area. Payments of in-lieu parking district fees for otherwise required parking
permits provides for better utilization of properties by freeing up land for
commercial use. Off-street parking requirements for commercial areas may be
waived by the planning commission under the following conditions:
   A.   That the city council adopts a resolution of policy setting out the
value of the off-street parking space based on land value, plus not less than
one and one half times the construction costs of a top grade parking lot at the
time of the adoption of this Title unless otherwise designated by the city
council;
   B.   That the city council authorizes the issuance of "in-lieu certificate."
Each such certificate shall represent the cost of one off-street parking space;
   C.   That the city council set up a special fund for the revenues from
issuance of such certificates. Such revenues shall be used only to establish,
maintain, and landscape city-owned off-street parking;
   D.   That the applicant, for relief from the established parking
requirements, purchase one certificate for each space of off-street parking
requested to be waived from the requirements of this article;
   E.   The payment in full of any off-street parking fees shall be made prior
to issuance of any building permit or business license;
   F.   The waiver for off-street parking requirements shall be limited to the
downtown commercial area only. The in-lieu parking fees shall be limited to a
maximum of thirty percent of the required off-street parking spaces for new
development unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the planning
commission that a hardship would occur due to the size, shape, location or
topography of the property involved, in which case a higher percentage waiver
could be granted;
   G.   Waivers within the parking and business improvement area: Off-street
parking requirements for commercial uses within a designated parking district
and business improvement area will be met through the equivalent parking
participation in the district.
17.108.050 Parking structures.
   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of parking structures within
the following zones: P-R, R-4, R-R, C-1, C-2, and C-M. (Ord. 2004-03 § 1 (Exh.
A (part)), 2004)
17.108.060 Garages for multi-family dwellings.
   The number of garages or carports facing directly onto the street from any
multi-family dwelling structure shall be no greater than that which may be
accommodated on thirty percent of the lot frontage but need not be less than
two.
17.108.070 Off-street parking facilities for the handicapped.
   A.   Number of Spaces. A minimum of one parking space should be provided for
the physically handicapped in parking lots and in parking structures containing
forty or fewer spaces; however, parking areas with less than five parking
spaces shall include one handicapped sized space that need not be exclusively
reserved or identified. Consideration should be given to providing enough
spaces to serve the maximum probable number of disabled drivers who might use
the parking facility at any one time. Space requirements shall be per the
following chart:
Total Number of Parking Spaces Handicapped Parking Spaces Required   
Total Number of Parking Spaces Handicapped Parking Spaces Required   
0-40                             1
41-80                            2
81-120                           3
121-160                          4
161-300                          5
301-400                          6
401-500                          7
over 500                         1 for each 200 additional spaces provided
 
   B.   Specifications. When parking spaces are made available to handicapped
persons in off-street facilities they shall comply with the following
specifications:
   1.   Open on one side or a minimum of fourteen feet wide;
   2.   Located where slope in the immediate area does not exceed two percent;
   3.   Placed to minimize necessary travel on sloped surfaces;
   4.   Located near level or ramped entrance;
   5.   Located close to elevators;
   6.   Located to minimize necessary travel behind parked vehicles.
17.108.080 Public parking.
   Public parking as required by the general plan/local coastal program land
use plan shall be designed to the standards for commercial parking areas.
   TABLE 108-A
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS FOR STANDARD SIZE CRS
  ANGLE OF PARKING   
                    ANGLE OF PARKING   
                    0      30°   45°   60°   90°   
Stall Width                                        
Interior               8'        9'        9'        9'        9'
End Space              8'        10'       10'       10'       10'
Curb Length per Car    23'       19'       13'5"     11'       9'10"
Stall Depth                     18' 3"    20' 6"    2l' 6"    20'
Minimum Driveway Width 14'       11'       13'       18'       24'
Parking Row Width      20'       29'3"     33'6"     39'6"     44'
1 Row + 1 Driveway                                 
Parking Row Width      28'       47'6"     54'       61'       64'
2 Rows + 1 Driveway                                
Parking Row Width      48'       68'       80'4"     95'6"     108'
3 Rows + 2 Driveways                               
Parking Row Width      56'       86'2"     100'10"   116'6"    128'
4 Rows + 2 Driveways                               
RV spaces              12' x 12' 12' x 12' 12' x 12' 12' x 12' 12' x 12'
 
   Reference: Timesaving Standards: "Automobiles--Parking Lots" by Frank
Harrison Randolph. Copyright 1966. Used with permission of McGraw-Hill Book
Company. Note: Curb length will be calculated using the 9'0" x 20'0" stall size
(Numbers rounded off to the nearest inch.
   TABLE 108-B
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS FOR COMPACT CARS
  ANGLE OF PARKING   
                        ANGLE OF PARKING   
 Along Curb          0° 30° 45° 60° 90°   
Stall Width            8'    9'     9'     9'         
Curb Length per Car    20'   18'    12'9"  10'5"  9'
Stall Depth            9'    15'9"  17'5"  18'3"  16'
Minimum Driveway Width 12'   11'    13'    18'    24'
Parking Row. Width     21'   26'9"  30'8"  36'3"  40'
1 Row + 1 Driveway                     
Parking Row Width      30'   42'6"  48'4"  54'6"  56'
2 Rows + 1 Driveway                    
Parking Row Width      1'    61'6"  72'8"  86'3"  96'
3 rows + 2 Driveways                   
Parking Row Width      60'   77'3"  90'4"  95'8"  112'
4 Rows + 2 Driveways                   
 
   FIGURE 108-C
MINIMUM STANDARD DIMENSIONS FOR CURVED DRIVEWAYS
   FOR OTHER DIMENSIONS THE FOLLOWING FORMULAE MAY BE USED:
   Timesaver Standards: Adopted from "How to Design Practical Curved
Driveways", by Ernest Irving Freese; by McGraw-Hill Book for Timesavers
Standards, copyright 1966. Used with the permission of McGraw-Hill Book
Company.
Note: These images are available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE
to view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5907.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5909.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5911.jpg]
 
 
Chapter 17.111 SIGN REGULATIONS
17.111.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter establishes uniform sign regulations that are intended to
create a more attractive and economically viable business atmosphere for Pismo
Beach residents and tourists. The standards of this chapter regulate and
control the size, number, location, and structural characteristics of all signs
and sign structures. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.015 Sign definitions.
   A.1.   Sign. Any visual device or representation (written or pictorial) used
to convey information, or to identify, announce, or otherwise direct attention
to a premise, product, service, person, organization, business, or event, and
placed on, suspended from, or in any way attached to, any structure, vehicle,
or landscape feature. Types of signs include:
   2.   Abandoned sign. A sign that identifies a business, lessor, owner,
product, service, or activity which has been discontinued on the premises for a
period of six months or more.
   3.   Address sign. The numeric reference of a structure or use to a street,
included as part of a wall or monument sign.
   4.   Animated or moving sign. Any sign which uses movement, lighting or
special materials to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
   5.   Awning, canopy, or marquee sign. A nonelectric sign that is printed on,
painted on, or attached to an awning, canopy, or marquee.
   6.   Banner sign. A frameless sign of fabric, vinyl, or similar material,
designed and used for temporary display.
   7.   Bench sign. Copy painted on any portion of a bus stop bench.
   8.   Billboard or off-site sign. A sign structure advertising an
establishment, merchandise, service, or entertainment, which is not sold,
produced, manufactured, or furnished at the property on which the sign is
located.
   9.   Building face. The exterior walls of a building visible in a single
building elevation, not including sloped roof surfaces.
   10.   Building-mounted, or wall sign. A sign painted on or fastened to a
building wall, and which does not project more than twelve inches from the
wall.
   11.   Civic event sign. A temporary sign, other than a commercial sign,
posted to advertise a civic event sponsored by a public agency, school, church,
civic-fraternal organization, or similar noncommercial organization.
   12.   Construction sign. A temporary sign erected on the parcel on which
construction is taking place, limited to the duration of the construction,
indicating the names of the architects, engineers, landscape architects,
contractors, or similar artisans, and the owner, financial supporters,
sponsors, and similar individuals or firms having a major role or interest with
respect to the structure or project.
   13.   Decorative graphics. Any graphic symbol, logo, monogram, words treated
as a graphic image or other symbolic device that identifies the specific
business, products, or services offered on the premises, or which relates to
the contents of the building-mounted sign.
   14.   Directory sign. A sign for listing the tenants or occupants and their
suite numbers of a structure or center.
   15.   Double-faced sign. A single structure monument sign located
perpendicular to the street.
   16.   Exterior-illuminated sign. Any part of a sign which is illuminated
from an exterior artificial light source mounted on the sign, another
structure, or the ground.
   17.   Flag. The official flag of a government, religious group or other
organization.
   18.   Flashing sign. A sign that contains an intermittent or sequential
flashing light source.
   19.   Freestanding sign. A sign with its own support structure, not attached
to any other structure.
   20.   Historic sign. A sign that is individually culturally significant or
associated with a culturally significant business, building, area, product or
event.
   21.   Holiday decoration sign. Temporary signs, in the nature of
decorations, clearly incidental to and customarily associated with holidays.
   22.   Identification sign. A sign identifying an institution, occupant,
apartment, residence, school, or church in a residential zone; or a sign
identifying the name of a business in a commercial zone and not advertising any
product or service.
   23.   Illegal sign. A sign that was not established or is not being
maintained in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Pismo Beach
Zoning Code or this chapter that applied to the sign at the time it was
installed.
   24.   Illuminated sign. A sign with an artificial light source incorporated
internally or externally for the purpose of illuminating the sign.
   25.   Institutional sign. A sign identifying the premises of a church,
school, hospital, rest home, or similar institutional facility.
   26.   Interior-illuminated sign. Any part of a sign which has text,
graphics, or any portion of the sign face or its outline illuminated by a light
source within the interior of the sign.
   27.   Logo sign. An established trademark identifying the use of a
structure.
   28.   Marquee. A sign placed on the face of a permanent roofed structure
projecting over the building entrance which is an integral part of the building
(usually a hotel or theater) and is not a fascia extension of the roof or eave.
   29.   Monument sign. A sign structure detached from a building, with a solid
base located on the ground, as opposed to being supported by poles or open
braces, and six feet or less in height.
   30.   Mural. A painting including images or pictorial representations,
applied directly to the exterior of a commercial building. If these paintings
include advertising copy, trademarks, or business logos, they are instead
considered to be signs.
   31.   Non-appurtenant sign. Any sign which does not relate to, or which
relates only incidentally to, the occupant of the site or the principal
business conducted within the structure.
   32.   Open/closed sign. An "open" or "closed" window sign.
   33.   Open house sign. A temporary sign posted to indicate a salesperson is
available to represent the property subject to sale, lease, or rent.
   34.   Pedestrian sign. An identification and/or directional sign designed
and located primarily to inform pedestrians. These signs are usually mounted or
suspended from the underside of an eave or canopy, perpendicular to an adjacent
store front.
   35.   Pole or pylon sign. A sign with its message area elevated above the
ground by a single pole, or multiple supports, with a total height of more than
six feet.
   36.   Political sign. A sign intended to draw attention to, or communicate a
position on any issue, candidate, or measure, that is associated with any
national, state, or local elections, or that is the subject of general public
discussion or debate.
   37.   Price sign. A sign limited to the name or identification of items or
products for sale on the premises, and the price of the items or products.
   38.   Projecting or cantilevered sign. A sign which extends outward from a
building face or wall so that the sign face is perpendicular or at an angle to
the building face or wall.
   39.   Promotional sign. A temporary sign which serves to promote the sale of
new products, new management, new hours of operation, a new service, or to
promote a special sale.
   40.   Reader board sign. A sign that is designed so that message elements or
sign copy may be readily changed through the use of individual letters or
characters, separate panels, or electrical messages.
   41.   Roof sign. A sign located on or attached to and extending above the
roof covering of a building.
   42.   Temporary sign. A sign intended or required to be displayed for a
limited period of time.
   43.   Wall sign. See "Sign - Building-mounted or wall sign."
   44.   Window sign. A sign displayed within or attached to the interior of a
window, door, or similar opening for the primary purpose of visibility from the
exterior of the building.
   B.   Sign area. The area in square feet of the smallest simple geometric
shape within which a single sign face can be enclosed. The area of a sign with
more than one face shall be the greatest area of sign faces visible from any
one point. See
Chapter 17.111 (Signs).
   C.   Sign copy. The information content of a sign, including text,
illustrations, logos and trademarks.
   D.   Sign face. The visible portions of a sign including all characters and
symbols, but not supporting structures.
   E.   Sign height. The vertical distance from average adjacent ground level
to the top of the sign including the support structure and any design elements.
(Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.020 Applicability.
   Signs (including advertising copy changes to an existing sign) shall be
erected or maintained in any zoning district only in compliance with this
chapter. The allowed number and area of signs established by this chapter are
intended to be maximum standards, which do not necessarily ensure architectural
compatibility. Therefore, the review and approval of sign permit in compliance
with Section
17.111.050 shall consider a sign's relationship to the overall appearance of
the site and the surrounding community, in addition to the standards of this
chapter. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.030 Design objectives.
   The city of Pismo Beach encourages:
   A.   A single sign theme for individual buildings or complexes utilizing
materials including wood, rock, brick, metal, and approved plastic;
   B.   Utilization of symbols;
   C.   Signs in which colors, motifs and subject matters are compatible in
character and quality of design with the exterior architecture of the
structures on the site;
   D.   Placement of signs such that they shall not be allowed to block coastal
views, cause visual clutter that conflicts with the ordered design of coastal
communities, or detract from the natural beauty of the coast;
   E.   A central design theme for city information and directional signs;
   F.   The protection of significant public views and the maintenance of
visual quality of the city to and along the coast; and
   G.   The protection of historical signs. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.040 Sign permits required.
   A.   Application and processing. Signs shall only be constructed, displayed
or altered with sign permit (or when located in the coastal zone, a coastal
development permit specific to signs consistent with
Chapter 17.124) approval by the director or commission, as applicable.
   1.   Application filing. Sign permit applications shall be filed on the
forms provided by the department and shall include all information described in
the city's sign permit application instructions, and the required filing fee.
   2.   Referral to building official. Sign permit applications shall be
reviewed by the building official for a determination as to whether a separate
building, electrical or plumbing permit is required for the sign.
   3.   Review authority. A sign permit shall be approved or disapproved in
compliance with subsection C. below. The director shall review, and approve or
disapprove all sign permits, except permits for the following types of signs,
which shall instead be decided by the commission.
   a.   Alternate materials. Any sign utilizing materials other than natural
wood, rock or stone, metal, brick, glass tube, or approved plastic.
   b.   Animated or moving signs. Signs which contain any component which
moves, rotates, flashes, is otherwise animated, or gives the appearance of any
of these.
   c.   Exceptions. Requests for exceptions to the standards of Sections
17.111.090 (sign standards), or
17.111.100 (sign design guidelines).
   d.   More than three signs. Proposed signs on a site with more than three
signs.
   e.   Roof signs. Signs that are located on or project above the peak of the
roof of a structure.
   f.   Special purpose signs. The following signs, provided that the
commission finds that the sign will not be detrimental to adjoining properties
or the safety and appearance of the immediate neighborhood, and that the sign
is consistent with the general purposes and standards of this chapter:
   (1)   Flags. Flags, other than those of any nation, state or local
government, and other than official flags used for warning or other public
service;
   (2)   Murals. Murals on an exterior building wall;
   (3)   Statues. Permanent statues when used as part of an advertising
display;
   (4)   Vehicle signs. Signs placed on or attached to any vehicle when used
for advertising or directional purposes, except for customary business
identification information painted or attached magnetically on vehicles which
are used in the conduct of the business; and
   (5)   Wind-affected devices. Pennants, streamers, bunting, wind-activated
signs, and tethered airborne inflatable signs proposed for time periods longer
than those allowed by Section
17.111.050.
   g.   Other non-complying signs. Any other visual device which the director
determines does not comply with the standards, purposes, or objectives of this
chapter.
   4.   Commission hearing. The commission shall conduct a public hearing in
compliance with Section
17.121.210 (notice of public hearing procedures) prior to approving or
disapproving a sign permit requiring a commission decision.
   B.   Findings for approval. The review authority may approve a sign permit
application in whole or in part, with or without conditions, only if the
following findings are made:
   1.   The proposed sign is permitted within the zoning district and complies
with all applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other applicable
standards;
   2.   The sign primarily identifies the business name and does not list
multiple products or services;
   3.   The sign is in proper proportion to the structure or site on which it
is located and as an identification device, does not excessively compete for
the public's attention;
   4.   The sign materials, color, texture, size, shape, height, and placement
are harmonious with the design of the structure, property and neighborhood of
which it is a part; and
   5.   The sign's illumination is at the lowest reasonable level as determined
by the director, which ensures adequate identification and readability, and is
directed solely at the sign or is internal to it; and
   6.   The sign is not detrimental to the public interest, health, safety, or
welfare.
   C.   Conditions of approval. In granting the approval of any sign permit,
the commission may impose any conditions or modifications it determines are
necessary or appropriate to secure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Changes to an approved sign permit. Changes to an approved sign permit
may be approved in compliance with Section
17.121.060 (modifications to permits).
Note: These images are available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE
to view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5551.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.050 Exempt signs.
   The following signs shall not require a sign permit nor shall the area of
the signs be included in the maximum sign area permitted for any site or use:
   A.   Directional and information signs. Signs containing site or operations
information without advertising, and not exceeding three square feet in area or
three feet in height, including: name plates; directional signs including
"entrance," "exit," "office," "open" or "closed;" signs with the name and
address of the occupant; or directional arrows designed to be viewed by on-site
pedestrians or motorists.
   B.   Flags. Official flags of any nation, state, or local government, an
American, California, or city flag. The height of the flag pole shall comply
with the requirements of the applicable zoning districts.
   C.   Memorial signs/plaques. Memorial signs, historic markers, and
commemorative plaques, and other decorative architectural features constructed
as an integral part of a building.
   D.   Political signs. Political signs pertaining to an election for public
office, or to a ballot measure to be placed before the voters in a federal,
state, or local election, in place prior to or on the day of the election and
in compliance with the following requirements:
   1.   Total sign area shall not exceed three square feet per sign in all
zoning districts and on any signs attached to or displayed from a vehicle or
trailer on private property;
   2.   Signs shall not be illuminated;
   3.   The signs shall not be located within one hundred feet of any polling
place on election day;
   4.   Adhesive signs shall not be placed on structures in any location other
than on a glass surface; and
   5.   The signs shall not be placed without the written consent of the
property owner.
   E.   Public/governmental signs. Any information or safety signs installed by
a governmental agency or public utility, including street signs, traffic
regulating signs and devices, railroad crossing signs, signs indicating the
location of underground utilities, and similar signs.
   F.   Real estate signs. Non-illuminated temporary real estate signs are
allowed in compliance with California Civil Code Section 713, with a maximum
area of six square feet, pertaining only to the site on which the sign is
located. Four additional temporary, off-site signs are also allowed for an open
house only.
   G.   Temporary signs. The following temporary signs are exempt from permit
requirements; all other temporary signs shall require a sign permit and shall
be subject to all standards applicable to permanent signs.
   1.   Balloon displays. Helium balloon displays, limited to no more than one
day, where the balloons are tethered no higher than eight feet above the ground
and at least eight feet from the curb of any adjacent street.
   2.   Hazard signs. Temporary signs warning of construction, excavation, or
similar hazards as long as the hazard exists.
   3.   Holiday displays. Temporary holiday displays and signs for decoration
rather than advertising and customarily associated with national, local, or
religious holidays. These signs shall be removed within fourteen days after the
holiday.
   4.   Special event signs. One temporary special event sign per business,
provided that the sign does not exceed twelve square feet in area, and is
displayed only during the period of a city-sanctioned special event.
   5.   Window signs. Signs attached temporarily to the interior of a building
window or door for a maximum of thirty days, provided that the signs comply
with the provisions of Section
17.111.080 (allowed number and area of signs). Window signs may be in place for
more than thirty days with sign permit approval.
   H.   Time and temperature signs. Time and temperature signs which contain no
advertising, do not exceed thirty square feet in total area, and are no higher
than the nearest structure. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.060 Prohibited signs.
   The following signs are inconsistent with the purposes and standards of this
chapter, and are therefore prohibited:
   A.   Abandoned signs;
   B.   Bench signs;
   C.   Billboards and other off-site signs;
   D.   Signs on public property, in a public right-of-way; except for traffic
and street identification signs, and projecting signs that are less than eight
feet above the right of way (sidewalk), that are less than two feet from the
street curb, and that exceed twenty-four square feet in area.
   E.   Any sign attached or placed adjacent to any utility pole, or any
traffic sign, signal, or control device.
   F.   Signs painted on fences or roofs;
   G.   Signs that simulate in color or design a traffic sign or signal, or
which make use of words, symbols or characters in a manner to interfere with,
mislead or confuse pedestrian or vehicular traffic; and
   H.   Pole/pylon signs, except in compliance with Section
17.111.080.C.1.d. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.070 Measurement of sign area and height.
   For the purposes of determining compliance with this chapter, the area and
height of signs shall be measured as provided by this section.
   A.   Sign area. Sign area shall be measured as the area in square feet of
the smallest simple geometric shape within which a single sign face can be
enclosed. The total area of the sign shall include all sign faces. See Figures
111-2 and 111-3.
   B.   Sign height. Sign height shall be measured as the vertical distance
from grade adjacent to the sign footing, to the top of the sign, including the
support structure and any design elements. See Figure 111-2.
Note: These images are available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE
to view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5553.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5555.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5557.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.080 Allowed number and area of signs.
   The signs described in this section may be allowed only on the same site as
the use being advertised or identified. Exceptions to these standards may be
granted through the approval of a sign permit by the planning commission in
compliance with Section
17.111.040 (sign permits required).
   A.   Signs within all zoning districts. The following signs may be allowed
with sign permit approval in all zoning districts.
   1.   Civic event sign. A temporary civic event sign may be authorized by the
director for announcing a civic event within the city of a general public
nature for not more than thirty days before and not more than five days after
the period during which the event takes place.
   2.   Construction sign. One temporary non-illuminated sign, advertising the
various construction trades participating in the project. On a site less than
one acre, the sign shall not exceed thirty-two square feet in sign area or six
feet in height. On a parcel of land of one acre or more, the sign shall not
exceed fifty square feet in sign area or six feet in height. The sign shall be
allowed to remain until the last unit is sold, rented, or leased.
   3.   Temporary subdivision signs. A temporary subdivision sign declaring a
group of parcels, dwellings or occupancies within a subdivision for sale, rent
or lease shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
   a.   One on-site sign shall be permitted for each street frontage;
   b.   The sign area shall not exceed fifty square feet, or exceed six feet
above the level of the street;
   c.   The sign shall be unlighted;
   d.   In the case of a corner lot, the sign shall not obstruct the vision of
motorists by being located within the traffic safety visibility area of the
parcel, which shall consist of a triangular area formed by measuring thirty-
five feet from the intersection of the street property lines, and connecting
the lines across the parcel; and
   e.   The sign may remain on the property until the last unit is sold, rented
or leased for the first time after construction.
   B.   Residential district signs. The following signs may be allowed with
sign permit approval within a residential zoning district, provided that any of
the following shall not be illuminated when located within a residential
district:
   1.   Small residential projects. Residential projects containing four or
more dwelling units may be permitted one identification sign with a maximum
area of eight square feet and a maximum height of five feet;
   2.   Planned residential developments. A planned residential development of
twenty-five or more units may be permitted one sign larger than that allowed by
Subsection B.1. above, provided that the aggregate sign area does not exceed
thirty square feet, and the sign does not exceed five feet in height;
   3.   Multi-family projects and mobile home parks. Multi-family dwelling
projects and mobile home parks may be permitted one identification sign for
each major street entrance to the project, with a maximum area of twelve square
feet and a maximum height of four feet.
   C.   Commercial district signs. The following signs may be allowed with sign
permit approval within the commercial zoning districts.
   1.   General requirements.
   a.   Size and height. The maximum area and height of signs allowed within
the commercial districts, including any signs painted on exterior building
walls, shall comply with Figures 111-5.
   b.   Number of signs. No more than three signs shall be allowed for each
business. No more than one of the signs may be freestanding without commission
approval of the sign permit.
   c.   Sign placement - freestanding signs. Freestanding signs may be placed
within required setbacks.
   d.   Pole/pylon signs. Pole or pylon signs may be allowed only on parcels
which abut the Highway 101 right-of-way or frontage road in compliance with
general plan policy D-29. See Subsection C.3.
   e.   Signs on buildings with multiple frontages. When a business fronts on
two or more streets and/or a vacant lot, the total allowed sign area shall
comply with Figure 111-5, and that total sign area shall be assigned to each
building wall proposed to have signs at a ratio of one square foot of sign area
for each lineal foot of building wall on that frontage.
   2.   Awnings and canopies. Awnings and canopies with advertising are allowed
as follows, and shall be included in the total sign area allowed for attached
signs by Figure 111-5.
   a.   Measurement of sign area. The area of an awning or canopy sign shall be
the area in square feet of the smallest rectangle, or a series of rectangles
when the copy is of irregular geometry, that encloses the copy on the awning.
   b.   Height limit. The height of awnings and canopies shall not exceed the
height of the wall on which they are mounted, or the lowest point of the roof
structure.
   c.   Clearance from sidewalk. Awnings and canopies shall be designed and
installed to maintain a minimum height clearance of eight feet between the
sidewalk and the lowest point of the awning or canopy.
   d.   Maximum projection from building. Awnings and canopies shall not extend
more than five feet from the building nor closer than two feet to the curb of
the adjacent street.
   e.   Design. All awnings and canopies on a single building shall have
similar shapes, design styles, and color.
   f.   Encroachment permit. Awnings and canopies projecting over a public
right-of-way shall require the approval of an encroachment permit by the public
works department.
Note: These images are available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE
to view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5559.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5561.jpg]
 
   3.   Freeway-oriented and planning area H business signs. Freeway oriented
businesses (for example, service stations, motels, restaurants, and similar
uses) adjacent to freeway intersections and within two hundred feet of a
freeway on- or off-ramp and the planning area H area may be granted additional
sign area and height by the commission, where the commission determines that
freeway visibility to the business is essential for the viability of the
business. If approved by the commission, signs with additional area and/or
height shall be no higher than necessary to be visible to passing motorists
from a reasonable distance.
   A visual impact analysis of any proposed pole sign within two hundred feet
of a freeway on- or off-ramp shall be required to determine the appropriate
minimum height for freeway visibility no more than one mile from the closest
off ramp to the affected business. A visual impact analysis of any proposed
pole sign in planning area H shall be required to determine the appropriate
maximum height for freeway visibility above the Highway 101 southbound
elevation closest to the subject application site.
   4.   Marquee signs. Marquee signs shall not exceed twenty-four square feet
on each face.
   5.   Murals. Exterior wall murals are allowed without being included in the
maximum area of attached signs established by Figure 111-5, provided that the
mural is a painting which includes images or pictorial elements, but does not
include trademarks, logos, or advertising copy, except logos which are
determined by the commission to have historical significance. A mural shall not
be permitted on the same wall in connection with commercial signs.
   6.   Projecting or cantilevered signs. Projecting or cantilevered signs
extending over sidewalks shall have a minimum clearance above the sidewalk of
eight feet, and shall not extend outward over the sidewalk more than five feet
from the building, nor closer than two feet from the street curb. These signs
shall not extend above the height of the building wall or above the roof line,
and shall not exceed twenty-four square feet in area. Projecting signs require
encroachment permit approval by the public works director.
   7.   Window signs. Signs mounted in, painted on, or otherwise affixed to
windows so that they will be visible from the exterior of the structure are
allowed as follows. Window signs which conform with the provisions of this
subsection are allowed without a sign permit.
   a.   Maximum area. Window signs shall not exceed sixty percent of the area
of any window. Temporary window signs shall not be included in the total area
of attached signs allowed by Figure 111-5.
   b.   Location. Temporary window signs shall not be located above the ground
floor.
   c.   Content. The subject matter of window signs shall be related
specifically to: the name of the business and/or proprietor; address, phone
number, and hours of operation; temporary advertising and sales announcements;
special community event announcements; and prices.
   D.   Temporary signs. Temporary signs are allowed as follows, in addition to
the total area of signs permitted by Subsection C.1.a. above.
   1.   Pennants and inflatables. Temporary pennants and inflatable decorations
may be authorized with sign permit approval for a maximum of eight weeks
following the issuance of a business license for a new business.
   2.   Banners. Banners shall comply with the following standards:
   a.   Maximum area. Banner signs shall not exceed a maximum area of sixty
square feet;
   b.   Number of banners. No more than one banner shall be permitted per
business;
   c.   Materials. Permissible materials for banners shall be limited to fabric
or vinyl; and
   d.   Anchoring. Banners shall be designed and installed in a secure manner
so as to not be blown free from their moorings by wind.
   e.   Permitted time. A maximum of eight weeks per year banner use unrelated
to a business opening is permitted. A sign permit is required for each period
of use within the eight-week limitation.
   3.   Opening business signs.
   a.   A temporary banner or other sign announcing the opening of a new
business may be permitted by the director without a sign permit for a maximum
of one month before and one month after the opening of the business.
   b.   A temporary fabric or vinyl sign face that covers an existing sign may
be permitted by the director without a sign permit for a maximum of eight
weeks.
   c.   In order to qualify for the exemptions from sign permit requirements
provided by this subsection, the owner or operator of the business shall notify
the director in writing at the time of, or prior to, the issuance of the
business license of the dates during which the temporary signs will be in
place. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.090 Sign standards.
   All signs shall comply with the following standards. Exceptions to these
standards may be granted through the approval of a sign permit by the planning
commission in compliance with Section
17.111.040 (sign permits required).
   A.   Hazard avoidance. No sign shall be installed so as to:
   1.   Obstruct any fire escape, required exit, window, or door;
   2.   Interfere with any opening required for ventilation; or
   3.   Obstruct the visibility necessary for ingress or egress onto a public
right-of-way.
   B.   Required clearances. Signs shall maintain required clearances from
electrical lines, communications lines and equipment, and surface and
underground facilities for water, sewerage, and gas.
   C.   Supports for projecting signs. Visible angle iron, chain supports, or
other frames supporting projecting signs are prohibited, except structures
integral to the aesthetic design of the sign.
   D.   Illumination. No part of any sign shall exceed a brightness of four
hundred foot lamberts measured from the face of the sign at the brightest
point, color and cosine corrected. Open, unshielded light bulbs and light
sources, except for neon tubing, are prohibited. Lighting shall be installed to
avoid glare or reflection onto adjacent property or onto a street so as to
create a traffic hazard. Light sources shall be steady, stationary, shielded,
and directed so as to avoid undue glare for pedestrians, motorists, and
neighboring property.
   E.   Quality and maintenance. Signs shall be maintained in good condition,
free from chipped or peeling paint, rust, structural disrepair, or any other
visible indication of deterioration. At least eighty percent of the lighted
portion of any sign shall be functional at all times. The director may require
any improperly maintained sign to be repaired or removed upon the failure of
the owner to remedy the condition. Repairs shall be made within thirty days of
the receipt of a written notice from the director. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.100 Sign design guidelines.
   A.   Purpose. The sign design guidelines in this section are intended to
provide direction to property owners and project designers in understanding the
general plan's goals for maintaining high quality development that is sensitive
to the city's unique character.
   B.   Applicability. The guidelines in this section complement the mandatory
sign standards in the other sections of this chapter, and will be used during
the site plan and architectural review process as criteria to review projects
requiring design approval.
   1.   The provisions of this chapter apply to all sign development projects
within the city that require the approval of a sign permit in compliance with
Section
17.111.040 unless otherwise exempted.
   2.   These design guidelines may be interpreted with some flexibility in
their application to specific sign projects as not all design criteria may be
workable or appropriate for each project. In some circumstances, a guideline
may be relaxed in order to accomplish another, more important guideline. The
overall objective is to ensure that the intent and spirit of the design
guidelines are followed. The ultimate goal of the design review process is to
attain the best possible design within reason.
   C.   General guidelines. The following general design guidelines should be
considered prior to developing signs for any project.
   1.   Sign placement.
   a.   A sign should enhance a building's architecture and not dominate the
elevation on which it is placed. Signs should be consistent with the
proportions and scale of the elements within the building's facade. A
particular sign may fit well on a larger, plain wall area, but might overpower
the finer scale and proportion of a small shop. Likewise, a sign that is
appropriate near an entry may look tiny and out of place above the ground
level.
   b.   Study the facade of the structure to determine if there are any
architectural features or details that suggest a location, size, or shape for
the sign(s). These could be bands or frames of brickwork, cornice lines,
indentations or projections in the face material, gaps between columns, or
other permanent features. If these details exist, use them to locate the sign
(s).
   c.   Do not locate signs so that they cover architectural features (e.g.,
windows, decorative columns, cornice bands, etc.) that may be important to the
structure's overall design.
   d.   Look at the facade of the building in relation to where adjacent
businesses have placed their signs. There may be an established pattern of sign
locations. Consistent placement of signs establishes visual continuity among
the storefronts, and at the same time provides uniform sight lines for viewers.
   e.   The use of neon for downtown and Shell Beach commercial signs shall be
encouraged. Internally illuminated, "can-type" signs shall be discouraged. When
can-type signs are used the lettering should be illuminated instead of the
background to the lettering.
   2.   Color.
   a.   Color is one of the most important aspects of visual communication. It
can be used to catch the eye or to communicate ideas or feelings. Too many
colors used simultaneously can confuse and negate the message of a sign. The
number of colors should be limited to two or three on any one sign. Small
accents of several colors can make a sign unique and attractive, but the
competition of large areas of different colors decreases readability.
   b.   Contrast is an important influence on the legibility of signs. Light
letters on a dark background or dark letters on a light background are most
legible.
   c.   Colors or color combinations that interfere with legibility of the sign
copy or that interfere with viewer identification of other signs should be
avoided. Bright day-glo (fluorescent) colors or brilliant luminescent colors
should be avoided as they are distracting and do not usually blend well with
colors on structures or other background colors.
   d.   Sign colors should complement the colors used on the structures and the
project as a whole.
   3.   Materials.
   a.   Sign materials should be compatible with the design theme and use of
materials on the building where the sign is to be placed. The use of a chrome
and glass contemporary sign on a rustic or historic building would be as
inappropriate as a rustic carved wood sign on a modern building design of steel
and glass.
   b.   The selected materials should contribute to the legibility of the sign.
For example, glossy finishes are often difficult to read because of glare and
reflections.
   c.   Except for individually mounted channel letters, internally-illuminated
plastic-faced cabinet signs are strongly discouraged.
   d.   Neon tubes are a popular sign material and can contribute to the
nighttime ambiance of an area. However, care must be taken when using neon,
because of its brightness and attention-attracting properties. Not more than
one wall-mounted or window neon sign should be used on the same facade of a
building.
   4.   Sign legibility.
   a.   Signs should use a brief message whenever possible. The fewer the
words, the more effective the sign. A sign with a brief, succinct message is
easier to read and looks more attractive.
   b.   Use symbols and logos in the place of words whenever appropriate.
Pictographic images will usually register more quickly in the viewer's mind
than a written message. See Figure 111-6.
   c.   Avoid spacing letters and words too close together. Crowding of
letters, words, or lines will make any sign more difficult to read. As a
general rule, letters (sign copy) should not occupy more than seventy-five
percent of sign panel area. See Figure 111-7.
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5568.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5570.jpg]
 
   d.   Limit the number of lettering styles used on a sign in order to
increase legibility. A general rule to follow is to limit the number of
different letter types to no more than two for small signs and up to three for
larger signs.
   e.   Avoid hard-to-read, overly intricate typefaces and symbols. Typefaces
and symbols that are difficult to read reduce the sign's ability to
communicate.
   f.   Avoid faddish or bizarre typefaces if they are difficult to read. The
image conveyed by the sign may quickly become that of a dated and unfashionable
business.
   5.   Sign illumination.
   a.   If the sign can be illuminated by an indirect source of light, the sign
will be more compatible and integrated with the building's architecture. Light
fixtures supported in front of the structure cast light on the sign and
generally a portion of the face of the structure as well. Indirect lighting
emphasizes the continuity of the building's surface and signs become an
integral part of the facade.
   b.   Internally illuminated cabinet signs may have some advantage over signs
with indirect/external illumination in that the fixtures are protected from
weather and vandals, and the sign cabinet has a cleaner profile, uncluttered by
the struts of most indirect lighting systems. Conversely, there is the
disadvantage that when lighted, the cabinet sign alone becomes bright,
separating it from the building's surface. The sign then becomes an element
that is obviously attached to the facade of the structure rather than a part of
it. As a result, this type of sign can disrupt the continuity of the facade and
is, therefore, discouraged.
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5572.jpg]
 
   c.   Whenever indirect lighting fixtures are used (fluorescent or
incandescent), the light source shall be shaded, shielded, subdued, or directed
so that the intensity of the light does not impact surrounding properties.
Signs should be lighted only to the minimum level required for nighttime
readability. See Figure 111-8 .
   d.   Individually illuminated letters, either internally illuminated or
back-lighted solid letters, are a preferred alternative to internally
illuminated cabinet signs. Signs comprised of individual letters mounted
directly on a structure can often use a distinctive element of the building's
facade as a backdrop, thereby providing a better integration of the sign with
the structure. See Figure 111-9.
   e.   The use of neon for downtown and Shell Beach commercial signs shall be
encouraged. Internally illuminated, "can-type" signs shall be discouraged. When
can-type signs are used the lettering should be illuminated instead of the
background to the lettering.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5574.jpg]
Note: This image is available in a printer-friendly, PDF version. Click HERE to
view.
(Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.110 Nonconforming signs.
   This section recognizes that the eventual elimination of existing signs that
are not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter is as important as
the prohibition of new signs that would violate these regulations.
   A.   Continuation of nonconforming sign. A legally established sign that
does not conform to the provisions of this chapter may continue to be used, and
be maintained and repaired, provided that:
   1.   The aggregate cost of repairs does not exceed fifty percent of its
value, as determined by the building official; the methodology to determine
fifty percent of the sign value requires a procedure where two separate sign
companies are contracted, with funds supplied by applicant, to prepare two sets
of estimates one for repair the other for replacement of subject sign. The
average of one set of estimates will determine the cost to repair or
reconstruct the sign. The average of the other set of estimates will determine
what it would cost to altogether replace the damaged sign (including
installation costs). The cost to repair/reconstruct will be divided by the
replacement cost. If this ratio is equal to or greater than 0.5, the non-
conforming sign will be said to have been substantially damaged and must be
brought into compliance with the code.
   The following equation illustrates this formula:
 
(Repair or reconstruction cost of sign*)
(Replacement cost of sign, including installation*)      = Extent of Damage
*as determined by the average of 2 estimates from 2 sign
companies
 
 
   EXTENT OF DAMAGE                         sign is significantly damaged and
IF (Cost to repair or reconstruct      0.must be brought into compliance
   divided by the cost to replace)
 
Example: Two separate sign companies provide estimates to both repair and
replace a damaged sign. Company A says that the sign can be repaired for four
hundred dollars and replaced for six hundred fifty dollars. Company B says that
the sign can be repaired for four hundred fifty dollars and replaced for five
hundred dollars. Therefore, the average cost to repair the sign is four hundred
twenty-five dollars and the average cost to replace the sign is five hundred
seventy-five dollars. To determine the extent of damage we divide the cost to
repair the sign by the replacement cost and get a ratio of 0.74. The sign would
be determined to be substantially damaged and required to be brought into
compliance; and
   2.   No structural modifications to the sign or support structure shall be
permitted.
   B.   Sign copy changes. The sign copy and sign faces of a nonconforming sign
may be changed when there is no change in the use of the site or when only a
portion of a multiple-tenant sign is being changed.
   C.   Correction of nonconformities required. Nonconforming signs shall be
removed or brought into conformity with the provisions of this chapter within
sixty days after written notice from the director when:
   1.   The sign is damaged or otherwise needs reconstruction, repair equal to,
or greater than fifty percent of its replacement value;
   2.   Changes are approved to the structure, use, occupancy, or tenant; or
   3.   The business is discontinued or abandoned for a period of three years.
These abandoned signs shall be deemed in violation of this zoning code and a
public nuisance. Thereafter, no business shall be permitted or licensed on the
site until the signs conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Nonconformities under prior ordinance. When a business is discontinued
or abandoned for a period of one year, all nonconforming signs and support
structures shall be deemed to be in violation of this title and a public
nuisance and may be ordered to be removed. Thereafter no business will be
permitted or licensed to be operated on said property until said signs conform
to this title. In addition, no modifications shall be permitted to any
nonconforming signs except for maintenance and repair wherein no changes in the
sign or support structures occur. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
17.111.120 Abatement of illegal signs.
   Whenever a sign is found to be in violation of any provision of this zoning
code or an approved sign permit, the director may order that the sign be
altered, repaired, reconstructed, or removed, as the director may determine is
appropriate to abate the condition.
   A.   Time limit. Any work required by the director shall be completed within
thirty days of the order, or other longer period authorized by the director in
writing.
   B.   Revocation of sign permit. Failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with
an abatement order shall be sufficient basis for the director to revoke any
sign permit granted in compliance with this chapter.
   C.   Removal of sign. The building official is hereby empowered and
authorized to remove or cause to be removed, at the owner's expense, any sign
erected or maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Penalty for violations. Continuing violations of this chapter are
hereby declared to be infractions, and may be subject to the issuance of a
citation. (Ord. 2011-003 § 2, 2011)
Chapter 17.113 SHORT-TERM RENTALS
17.113.010 Purpose and intent.
   A.   The use of single-family homes as short-term rentals (for a period of
less than 30 consecutive days) has become increasingly more common in the
decade preceding the adoption of this regulation. Negative impacts associated
with this unregulated proliferation of short-term rentals include, but are not
limited to increased traffic, noise and trash; parking impacts; loss of
residential character, including vacancies in neighborhoods; reduction in long-
term housing stock and opportunities for low and moderate income housing; a
competitive disadvantage for legal short-term rental operators and hoteliers;
and loss of transient occupancy taxes (TOT).
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a permitting process and
appropriate standards to regulate the short-term rental of single family homes
in the city in order to minimize the potential negative impacts of such rentals
on neighborhoods; preserve the character of residential neighborhoods; minimize
impacts to coastal resources; provide for the reasonable use of property; and
ensure that short-term rentals are consistent with the general plan, zoning
code, and other applicable sections of the municipal code.
   C.   This chapter addresses applicability, residency requirements,
frequency, penalties, registration, maximum occupancy, good neighbor policy,
on-site parking requirements, inspection requirements, and compliance with
occupancy tax and assessment requirements. (Ord. O-2018-006 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.113.020 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms are hereby defined. The
words "shall" and "will" are mandatory; the word "may" is discretionary.
   A.   "Bedroom" shall mean a room that is primarily used for sleeping. A
bedroom shall be no less than seventy (70) square feet in size, with a minimum
horizontal dimension of no less than seven (7) feet on any side. A bedroom
offered for rent within a short-term rental or homestay shall meet all
applicable California Building Code life safety requirements.
   B.   "Homestay" shall mean an owner-occupied, detached single-family
residence where bedrooms are rented for compensation for less than thirty (30)
consecutive days.
   C.   "Primary residence" shall mean the dwelling owned and occupied as the
property owner's principal place of residence, where the owner lives more than
fifty percent of the year (26 C.F.R. § 1.121-1(b)(2)), defined herein as one
hundred eighty-three days or more per year. For purposes of short-term rental
or homestay licensing, a person can only have one primary residence at any
time.
   D.   "Proof of primary residence." In addition to the requirement that the
licensed property be the property owner's primary residence as defined herein,
the city shall also review the homeowner's income tax return or other
documentation deemed acceptable by the city showing the dwelling is the owner's
principal residence for tax purposes.
   Pursuant to U.S. Internal Revenue Regulation 26 C.F.R. § 1.121-1(b)(2), the
address used on federal and state tax returns is used as a factor to determine
principal residency for tax purposes.
   E.    "Responsible party" shall mean a person, over the age of eighteen, who
shall be legally responsible for compliance of all renters and visitors of the
STR or homestay with all applicable provisions of the Pismo Beach municipal
code. The responsible party shall sign the good neighbor policy and is
designated as the point of contact for the short-term rental or homestay.
   The responsible party shall assure the maintenance of the licensed property
in compliance with this and other applicable regulations, and shall be
responsible for the conduct and acts of said renters and visitors to the extent
provided herein. The responsible party's contact information shall be provided
to all short-term renters and neighbors within three hundred (300) feet of the
STR or homestay in the manner prescribed in
Chapter 5.22.
   F.    "Short-term rental" or "STR" shall mean the rental of a detached
single-family residence or accessory dwelling unit for less than thirty (30)
consecutive days where the primary residence is not being concurrently occupied
by the owner.
   G.   "Long-term rental" shall mean a rental for thirty (30) consecutive days
or more. Any rental agreement that allows a sublet or sublease to multiple
parties for any terms less than thirty (30) days, or early cancellation that
allows multiple rentals within a thirty (30) day period shall be considered a
short-term rental and subject to the terms of a short-term license as provided
in this code. (Ord. O-2021-001 § 2, 2021: Ord. O-2019-004 § 8, 2019: Ord. O-
2018-006 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.113.030 Applicability.
   This chapter shall be applicable only in the following zoning designations:
single family residential (R-1), two and three-family residential (R-2), multi-
family residential (R-3), planned residential (P-R), and open space-natural
resources protection (O-S-1). STRs and homestays are prohibited in all other
residential zones. To the extent that vacation rentals, or equivalent uses are
permitted in the downtown core, as defined by planning area K of the general
plan, or other non-residential zones, such rentals shall not be subject to this
chapter. (Ord. O-2019-004 § 9, 2019: Ord. O-2018-006 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.113.040 Application and permit requirements.
   Each STR or homestay shall procure a short-term rental (STR) license from
the City of Pismo Beach. The STR or homestay shall be registered by the
property owner, not a property management company. The licensing process and
other administrative provisions shall be established in
Chapter 5.22. As part of the licensing process, property owners within three
hundred (300) feet of the subject licensed property shall be notified about the
intent to operate said property as an STR or homestay and shall be provided
contact information for the property owner and responsible party. (Ord. O-2018-
006 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.113.050 Homestay.
   Homestays shall be regulated in the same manner as short-term rentals with
the exception of allowed frequency. For homestays, there is no limit to the
number of rental days allowed per year, subject to the property owner being
concurrently on-site during the homestay. (Ord. O-2018-006 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.113.060 Primary residence requirement.
   A.   STRs and homestays shall be permitted only at single-family properties
that are the primary residence of the property owner. For purposes of short-
term rental or homestay licensing, a property owner shall only have one primary
residence at any time. Legally permitted accessory dwelling units occupied by
the property owner may be deemed to be the property owner's primary residence.
   B.   The property owner shall be required to provide proof of primary
residence on a yearly basis. The property owner(s) shall be required to be
individual owner(s) or trustee(s), and not a corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, or other business or commercial entity. (Ord. O- 2018-006
§ 1 (part), 2018)
17.113.070 Short-term rental and homestay standards.
   A.   Initial inspection. Prior to issuance of an STR or homestay license,
the city shall conduct an inspection of subject property to confirm bedroom
count, on-site parking, and applicable safety standards. If complaints are
received about STR or homestay operations, the city shall have the right to re-
inspect the property. In the event such re-inspection requires access to the
interior of a dwelling unit, the property owner shall provide the city access
to the premises upon forty-eight (48) hours' advance notice.
   B.   Transmittal of rules and good neighbor policy. Prior to rental of an
STR or homestay, the property owner and responsible party shall be provided
with a good neighbor policy, consisting of a list of rules and
responsibilities, in a form approved by the city manager. The property owner
and responsible party shall initial each rule indicating that they have read
the policy and sign an acknowledgment that in the event applicable municipal
code sections and/or administrative rules are violated, renters and/or visitors
and/or the property owner may be fined by the city. A good neighbor brochure,
summarizing the good neighbor policy shall be placed or posted in a clearly
visible location within the STR or homestay.
   C.   Maximum occupancy. Maximum overnight occupancy of an STR or homestay
shall be limited to two people per bedroom, plus two additional people. For
example, a two-bedroom STR may have up to and including six occupants
overnight. This calculation shall be inclusive of children. Bedroom count shall
be confirmed via inspection by the city prior to the issuance of an STR or
homestay license.
   D.   Visitors. The number of visitors to an STR or homestay shall not exceed
a number equal to the allowable occupancy of the STR or homestay at any time.
For example, if the maximum overnight occupancy is 6, then no more than six
additional visitors are allowed. Visitors are not allowed in the STR or
homestay between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and shall not stay overnight on the
premises.
   E.   Frequency. Consistent with the definition of primary residence, a
qualifying STR property shall be limited to a maximum of 182 rental days per
year (less than half the year) without the property owner concurrently on site.
There shall be no limit to the number of rental days per year for homestays,
during which the property owner is concurrently on site.
   F.   On-site parking. On-site parking shall be required for the operation of
an STR or homestay.
   1.   Required parking is based on the number of bedrooms provided for rent,
as follows:
      1 bedroom: Minimum of 1 on-site parking space
      2 bedrooms: Minimum of 2 on-site parking spaces
      3-4 bedrooms: Minimum of 3 on-site parking spaces
      5 or more bedrooms: Minimum of 4 on-site parking spaces
   2.   Required parking shall be provided in a garage or on a driveway. Tandem
parking configurations shall be acceptable. Street parking shall not be counted
toward required parking.
   G.   Noise. Renters and visitors of STR and homestay properties shall not
generate noise to an extent that unreasonably interferes with the quiet use and
enjoyment of any other residence or business in the area. Any noise occurring
after 10:00 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. shall be contained within the STR or
homestay. What is reasonable in terms of noise generated shall be determined
under existing legal standards applicable to evaluating alleged nuisances,
including
Chapter 9.24 any other city noise standards.
   H.   Trash. Trash and refuse shall not be left stored within public view,
except in proper containers for the purposes of collection. There shall be no
accumulation or storage of trash and/or debris on the site or within the STR or
homestay.
   I.   Traffic. Vehicles used and traffic generated by the STR or homestay
shall not exceed normal residential levels or unreasonably interfere with the
quiet use and enjoyment of any other residences or businesses in the area. What
is reasonable in terms of traffic generated shall be determined under existing
legal standards applicable to evaluating alleged nuisances. (Ord. O-2018- 006 §
1 (part), 2018)
17.113.080 Tax and assessment compliance.
   The property owner shall be required to submit a business license
application to the City of Pismo Beach identifying the property as a short-term
rental/homestay. Once it is determined that the property is eligible to be
licensed, the property owner shall apply for a transient occupancy tax/lodging
business improvement district/tourism marketing district (TOT/LBID/TMD)
certificate. This certificate shall require the property owner to collect and
remit TOT/LBID/TMD payments to the city on a monthly basis, in full compliance
with the city's TOT and LBID ordinances, including but not limited to
Chapter 3.20 and
Chapter 3.26, as well as the county's tourism marketing district assessment.
(Ord. O-2018-006 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.113.090 Administrative standards and rules.
   The City Manager, or designee, shall have the authority to establish
administrative rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this
chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out, furthering,
and enforcing the requirements and the provisions of this chapter. In
particular, the city manager, or designee, will establish administrative
procedures for complaints. A copy of such administrative rules and regulations
shall be on file in the office of the city clerk and posted on the city's
website. (Ord. O-2018-006 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.113.100 Violations.
   A.   Penalty. It is unlawful to violate the provisions of this chapter.
Violations of this chapter are punishable as misdemeanors, except as otherwise
provided in Section
1.20.010. Violations of this chapter may alternatively be punished as
administrative violations as provided in
Chapter 1.24. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section
1.24.080, the initial fine shall be, at a minimum, seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750) for an administrative violation of this chapter and shall be, at
a minimum, one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each subsequent violation. Each
separate day or rental night in which a violation exists may be considered a
separate violation. Any attempt to rent an unlicensed residence as an STR or
homestay by advertising said property for short-term rental purposes shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Revocation. If the property owner or responsible party is deemed by the
city manager to be non-responsive to a complaint more than three (3) times in a
twenty-four (24)-month period, or if more than three (3) significant
violations, as defined below, occur in any twenty-four (24)-month period, or if
the property owner or responsible party is cited three (3) or more times in a
twenty-four (24) month period, the STR license may be revoked. Appeals shall be
conducted pursuant to Section
1.24.110.
   C.   Significant violations. "Complaint" as used in this subsection means
the need or requirement to contact the property owner or responsible party to
rectify a situation that is disturbing to a neighbor or resident.
   As used in this subsection, a "significant violation" means a situation
where the property owner or responsible party is either unable or unwilling to
rectify the situation within thirty (30) minutes, and/or when public safety
personnel must be called to assist in resolving the situation, and/or a
situation that causes substantial disturbance to the neighbors or neighborhood.
   Examples of significant violations include, but are not limited to:
   1.   Failure of the property owner or responsible party to take action to
respond to a complaint within thirty (30) minutes after the city contacts the
property owner or responsible party.
   2.   The inability of city staff or the Pismo Beach police dispatch to reach
the property owner or responsible party.
   3.   Violation of the STR or homestay maximum overnight occupancy, number of
visitors, parking, noise, trash, or other requirements as set forth in this
chapter.
   4.   Failure to notify city staff when responsible party or property owner
contact information changes.
   5.   Failure to pay fees or make TOT/LBID/TMD payments in accordance with
this chapter or
Chapters 3.20 or
3.26.
   6.   Providing false or misleading information on an STR/homestay license
application or other documentation as required by this chapter.
   7.   Violations of state, county, or city health regulations.
   The city manager, or designee, shall have the authority to determine what
other violations of this chapter constitute a significant violation, as
necessary, to achieve the objectives of this chapter. (Ord. O-2018-006 § 1
(part), 2018)
17.113.110 Fees.
   Application and licensing fees associated with STRs and homestays shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. O-2018-
006 § 1 (part), 2018)
Chapter 17.115 HOME OCCUPATIONS
17.115.010 Purpose.
   It is the intent of this article to permit home occupations which are
compatible with other permitted uses and with the residential character of the
neighborhood. Home occupations must be clearly secondary or incidental to the
residential use of the main building as a criteria for determining whether a
proposed use qualifies as a home occupation. In general, a home occupation is a
permitted use when it is located and conducted so that the average neighbor,
under any circumstances, would not be disturbed by its existence. Permits shall
be obtained from the department of community development.
17.115.020 Necessary conditions.
   Home Occupations are permitted uses in residential zones only so long as all
of the following conditions are observed:
   A.   Persons conducting the business shall secure and maintain a Business
License, and a home occupation permit from the city of Pismo Beach.
   B.   The home occupation permit shall be reviewed by the city planner six
months after issuance, and annually thereafter, to insure compatibility with
this chapter and any other appropriate city code. Any home occupation permits
existing at the time of adoption of this Title shall secure a use permit within
six months and shall be reviewed annually thereafter.
   C.   If the home occupation is to be conducted in rental property, the city
shall be provided with evidence of the property owner's authorization for the
proposed use.
   D.   The use shall be carried on entirely within the residence and not in
any accessory structure, or the yard surrounding the dwelling. Storage of parts
and/or materials in the carport or yard areas is prohibited. The use of the
garage shall not prevent or limit the use of the garage for required on-site
parking.
   E.   No more than one room or twenty-five percent of the gross floor area of
the residence, whichever is less, shall be used for such purpose.
   F.   The use shall not cause an increased use of utilities or communication
facilities beyond that normal to the use of the property for residential
purposes.
   G.   The use shall not require internal or external alterations to the
residence.
   H.   No mechanical equipment which is larger than that normally associated
with a residence, shall be installed on the exterior of the structure.
   I.   The use shall not include the storage of hazardous materials, or change
the fire rating of the structure or the neighborhood; nor shall it create
noise, dust, vibration, smell, glare, smoke, radio and television interference,
radioactive exposure or any similar condition to any greater extent than that
usually experienced in an average residential occupancy of the zone in question
under normal circumstances.
   J.   No persons shall be employed on-site other than residents.
   K.   There shall be no advertising signs, nor shall advertising identify the
home occupation by street address.
   L.   No products shall be displayed on or sold from the premises.
   M.   The use shall not increase vehicular traffic flow by more than two
vehicles at a time to the site.
   N.   Not more than three clients or customers shall visit the site at any
one time.
   O.   The home occupation shall not generate any noises outside the residence
between the hours of nine p.m. and nine a.m.
   P.   Clients or customers shall not visit the site between the hours of
seven p.m. and nine a.m.
   Q.   Not more than one commercial vehicle shall be permitted. This vehicle
shall not exceed three-quarter ton rated capacity.
   R.   Delivery of materials by commercial vehicles shall be limited to one
trip per week (average).
17.115.030 Types of permitted uses.
   The following uses are examples of permitted uses under the above
conditions: Dressmaking, counseling on a one-to-one basis, wig-styling,
individual stringed instrument instruction, individual tutoring on a one-to-one
basis, and uses similar thereto with relation to the definition of "home
occupation" and the purpose and conditions set forth in this Chapter. (Ord.
320, § 1 (part), 1983)
17.115.040 Revocation of permits.
   In the event that any letter of complaint is submitted to the Pismo Beach
planning department concerning a home occupation and contains substantive
evidence of violations as corroborated by city officials and deemed valid by
the planning commission, the use will be deemed in violation of this Title and
the permit may be suspended or revoked. (Ord. 320, § 1 (part), 1983)
17.115.050 Types of prohibited uses.
   The following uses by the nature of the operation are deemed to be incapable
of meeting the above conditions and are thereby excluded from the definition of
"home occupation":
   A.   Auto repair (major and minor);
   B.   Junkyards;
   C.   Cleaning of major equipment;
   D.   Food processing;
   E.   Barber or beauty shop;
   F.   Carpentry or cabinet making;
   G.   Welding and machinery;
   H.   Medical offices;
   I.   Clinics;
   J.   Child care of more than six children or instruction of more than three
school-age children or adults at one time (not counting residents of the home);
   K.   Appliance, radio or television repair;
   L.   Print shop;
   M.   Mail order gun sales;
   N.   Medical marijuana dispensaries;
   O.   Any use which causes noxious fumes, loud noises or heavy traffic is not
a permitted home occupation.
   Home occupation permits are also prohibited for any activities that would
cause neighborhood disruption or otherwise be in conflict with a typical
residential neighborhood use. (Ord. 2006-02 § 3, 2006)
17.115.060 Recordation of home occupation permits.
   The city planner will maintain a log of all home occupation permits issues;
to include signatures of applicants noting their understanding and intent to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
17.115.070 Posting prior to permit approval.
   Notice of all pending home occupation permits shall be posted at the
property for which the application is filed at least thirty days prior to the
issuance of any home occupation permits.
Chapter 17.117 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
17.117.010 Purpose and intent.
   This chapter is intended to:
   A.   Provide for and regulate accessory dwelling units and junior accessory
dwelling units on lots developed or proposed to be developed with single-family
dwellings or multifamily dwellings;
   B.   Contribute market-rate and affordable housing to the community's
housing stock;
   C.   Provide for greater occupational, household type, and income-level
diversity within neighborhoods;
   D.   Make more efficient use of existing infrastructure;
   E.   Provide for the creation of accessory dwelling units and junior
accessory dwelling units in a manner that is consistent with requirements set
forth in California Government Code Section 65852.2-65852.22, as amended from
time to time. (Ord. O-2021-001§ 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.020 Consistency with adopted plans.
   Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units designed in
accordance with this chapter are a residential use that is consistent with the
existing general plan and zoning designation for the lot, in accordance with
the following findings:
   A.   Accessory dwelling units designed in accordance with this chapter are
consistent with the General Plan and certified local coastal program.
   B.   Accessory dwelling units designed in accordance with this chapter
require no discretionary approval.
   C.   Accessory dwelling units designed in accordance with this chapter will
be found to have no adverse effect either individually or cumulatively on
coastal resources or public access to the shoreline or along the coast.
   D.   Accessory dwelling units located above the intersection of Longview
Avenue and Stratford Street in the Pismo Heights planning area may increase the
number of families that are in danger in emergency situations, because of the
lack of secondary access in this area. (Ord. O-2021-001 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.030 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, terms shall be defined as follows:
   A.   "Accessory dwelling unit" or "ADU" means an attached or detached
residential dwelling unit that provides complete independent living facilities
for one (1) or more persons, and provides permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation on the same parcel as the primary
unit, in compliance with Government Code Section 65852.2. An accessory dwelling
unit includes an efficiency unit, and a manufactured home as defined in Health
and Safety Code Section 18007. Accessory dwelling unit does not include "junior
accessory dwelling unit."
   B.   "Attached ADU" means an accessory dwelling unit that:
      1.   Shares at least one (1) common wall with the primary unit; and
      2.   Is not fully contained within the existing space of the primary
unit.
   C.   "Accessory structure" means a structure that is accessory and
incidental to a dwelling located on the same lot.
   D.   "Conversion ADU" means the conversion of any portion of a legal
accessory structure, or any portion of a single-family dwelling, or any garage,
for the purpose of creating an ADU. Conversion ADUs can include additions of no
more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet. Any conversion that exceeds
these limits shall be considered a new construction ADU for the purposes of
this chapter.
   If applying to convert an existing accessory structure, applicant shall
demonstrate that the structure was erected with all required permits, or that
the structure is legal nonconforming. Structures that were built without
benefit of permits are not eligible for conversion under this chapter and must
be processed as a new construction ADU.
   E.   "Detached accessory dwelling unit" means an accessory dwelling unit
that does not share a common wall with the primary unit and is not a junior
accessory dwelling unit.
   F.   "Director" means the director of the community development department
or designee.
   G.   "Director's action" means the required submittal of an administrative
approval application and review by the community development director.
   H.   "Efficiency unit" has the same meaning as defined in California Health
and Safety Code Section 17958.1.
   I.   "Efficiency kitchen" means limited kitchen facilities including a sink,
a refrigerator, small electric kitchen appliances that do not require
electrical service greater than one hundred twenty (120) volts, an
appropriately sized food preparation counter, and storage cabinets. Full-sized
electric, gas, or propane cooking appliances are not allowed in an efficiency
kitchen.
   J.   "Junior accessory dwelling unit" or "JADU" means an accessory dwelling
unit no more than five hundred (500) square feet in size and contained entirely
within a single-family residence. JADUs shall include independent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, and cooking (area meeting the definition of an
efficiency kitchen but not a standard kitchen), and separate sanitation
facilities, or shared sanitation facilities with the primary unit.
   K.   "Living area" means the interior habitable area of a dwelling unit,
including basements and attics, but does not include a garage or any accessory
structure.
   L.   "New construction ADU" means any ADU that does not meet the definition
of a conversion ADU.
   M.   "Nonconforming zoning condition" means a physical improvement on a
property that does not conform with current zoning standards.
   N.   "Passageway" means a pathway that is unobstructed, clear to the sky,
and extends from a street to one entrance of the ADU. Passageways are not
required for detached ADUs.
   O.   "Primary unit" means the existing or proposed single-family or
multifamily residential structure on the site that is not the accessory
dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit.
   P.   "Public transit" means a location, including, but not limited to, a bus
stop or train station, where the public may access buses, trains, subways, and
other forms of transportation that charge set fares, run on fixed routes, and
are available to the public.
   Q.   "Single-family dwelling" means a building designed for and/or occupied
exclusively by one (1) family, or one (1) or more persons occupying premises
and living as a single housekeeping unit, which is not attached to or located
on a lot with commercial uses. Single-family dwellings contain one (1) dwelling
on one (1) lot. Single-family dwellings may also include approved accessory
dwelling units and/or junior accessory dwelling units. Single-family dwelling
also includes factory-built, modular housing units, constructed in compliance
with the Uniform Building Code (UBC), and mobile homes/manufactured housing
units that comply with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974, placed on permanent foundations.
   R.   "Tandem parking" means that two (2) or more automobiles are parked on a
driveway or in any other location on a lot, lined up one (1) behind the other.
(Ord. O-2021-001 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.040 Applicability.
   A.   Application. Where this chapter does not contain a particular standard
or procedure, conventional zoning standards and procedures shall apply.
   B.   Areas Where ADUs are Allowed. ADUs and JADUs are permitted on lots
zoned to allow single-family or multifamily dwelling residential uses, with the
exceptions noted in subsection D., on lots or parcels where there is an
existing or planned single-family or multifamily residence, and where the
required development standards are met.
   C.   Unit Types Allowed.
      1.   Single-family dwellings. On lots with existing or proposed detached
or semi-detached single-family dwellings, the following are allowed:
         a.   Up to one (1) ADU and one (1) JADU per single-family dwelling.
      2.   Multifamily dwellings. On lots with existing or proposed attached
multifamily developments such as apartments, condominiums, and townhomes, the
following are allowed:
         a.   Up to two (2) detached ADUs; and
         b.   Conversion ADUs associated with up to twenty-five percent (25%)
of the number of multifamily units. Conversion ADUs in multifamily developments
must be converted from areas not previously used as living space including, but
not limited to, storage rooms, boiler rooms, passageways, attics, basements, or
garages, if each unit complies with state building standards for dwellings.
   D.   Exceptions.
      1.   ADUs and JADUs shall not be established in any mobile home
subdivision, mobile home park, or recreational vehicle park.
      2.   Due to traffic flow and public safety issues, ADUs and JADUs are not
permitted in the R-1 zone above the intersection of Longview Avenue and
Stratford Street, in the Pismo Heights planning area.
      3.   Projects on Hillsides. Development of an ADU on a slope that exceeds
twenty percent (20%) is prohibited.
      4.   No Subdivision of Property. No subdivision of property shall be
allowed where an ADU or JADU has been established unless the subdivision meets
all requirements of zoning and subdivision regulations. Additionally, while an
ADU or JADU may be rented separate from the primary residence, said dwelling
unit may not be sold or otherwise conveyed separate from the primary unit.
(Ord. O- 2021-001 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.050 Permit requirements.
   Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units are permitted
with approval of either a zoning clearance, consistent with Section
17.121.100, or a coastal development permit, consistent with Section
17.124.030 and as otherwise provided in this section.
   A.   Projects outside Coastal Zone. A zoning clearance and building permit
is required. Pursuant to Government Code Section 65852.2, applications for
accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units shall be approved
or denied ministerially, and no public notice or hearing shall be required.
   B.   Projects in Coastal Appeal Zone. A coastal development permit and
building permit is required. The public hearing is hereby waived, unless the
accessory dwelling unit is a part of a larger project that requires a public
hearing or if a variance is requested. Action on a project is final, unless
appealed to the California Coastal Commission within ten (10) days of the
Coastal Commission's receipt of the notice of final action.
      1.   For accessory dwelling unit applications for which the public
hearing requirement has been waived pursuant to this subsection, at least ten
(10) calendar days prior to the issuance of a coastal development permit, the
city shall provide notice by first class mail of pending application for
appealable development. This notice shall be provided to all property owners
and residents within three hundred (300) feet of the perimeter of the parcel on
which the development is proposed. The notice shall contain the following
information:
         a.   A statement that the development is within the coastal appeal
zone;
         b.   The date of filing of the application;
         c.   The number assigned to the application;
         d.   A description of the development and its proposed location;
         e.   A description of the process for appeals to the Coastal
Commission, including any local fees required.
   C.   Projects in Coastal Zone, Non-Appealable. A coastal development permit
and building permit is required. The requirement for a public hearing is hereby
waived. The Director's action on the permit shall be final. A notice of the
Director's action shall be provided to all property owners and residents within
three hundred (300) feet of the perimeter of the parcel on which the
development proposed. The notice shall contain the following information:
      1.   A statement that the development is within the coastal zone and not
within the coastal appeal zone;
      2.   The date of the filing of the application;
      3.   The number assigned to the application;
      4.   A description of the development and its proposed location;
      5.   Notice that the project is not appealable.
   D.   Ministerial Review Time. Pursuant to California Government Code
Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22, applications that are subject to ministerial
review must be approved, or a notice of deficiency sent, within sixty (60) days
of receipt of a completed permit application, which includes all items required
for either a zoning clearance or coastal development permit and for a building
permit. Applications not including all required items will be not be accepted
for processing. Such applications resubmitted in response to a notice of
deficiency must be approved or a notice of deficiency sent, within sixty (60)
days.
   E.   Fees. Prior to issuance of a building permit for an accessory dwelling
unit or junior accessory dwelling unit, the applicant shall pay all applicable
fees.
      1.   No impact fees shall be imposed on an accessory dwelling unit or
junior accessory dwelling unit less than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet
in size.
      2.   Impact fees charged for accessory dwelling units greater than or
equal to seven hundred fifty (750) square feet in size shall be charged
proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary unit.
      3.   For the purposes of this section, "impact fee" includes "fees" as
defined in California Government Code Section 66000(b) and fees specified in
California Government Code Section 66477. Impact fees do not include utility
connection fees or capacity charges. (Ord. O-2021-001 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.060 Density.
   For purposes of calculating the density on a lot, an accessory dwelling unit
and/or junior accessory dwelling unit together shall not be counted toward
overall density for the lot. Only one (1) primary unit and one (1) accessory
dwelling unit and/or junior accessory dwelling unit are permitted per legal lot
or parcel on applicable parcels identified in Section 17.117.040. (Ord. O-2021-
001 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.070 Parking.
   A.   All Areas. The following parking provisions apply to all ADUs in all
areas in the city. No additional parking is required for JADUs.
      1.   Required Parking in Addition to Primary Residence. Parking spaces
required for an ADU are in addition to parking required for the primary unit.
      2.   Tandem Spaces. Required off-street parking may be provided as tandem
parking on an existing driveway.
      3.   Within Setback Areas. Required off-street parking may be located
within minimum required setback areas unless findings are made that parking in
setback areas is not feasible based upon specific site conditions or regional,
topographical, or fire and life safety conditions. Additionally, the following
standards must be met:
         a.   Each space shall have minimum dimensions of nine (9) feet by
twenty (20) feet.
         b.   All parking spaces shall be located behind existing or future
sidewalk, or other public right-of-way.
      c.   Parking spaces shall be located on an all-weather surface as
approved by the City Engineer (e.g., hardscape, gravel) and accessed by a
driveway apron or curb cut.
      4.   When a garage, carport, or covered parking structure is demolished
in conjunction with the construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU, those
off-street parking spaces shall not be required to be replaced, except for
conversions within the Coastal Zone.
   B.   Within the Coastal Zone. In addition to the requirements of section A.
above, the following parking provisions apply to ADUs in the Coastal Zone.
      1.   For studio and one-bedroom ADUs: one (1) off-street parking space is
required.
      2.   For two-bedroom ADUs: two (2) off-street parking spaces are
required.
      3.   Due to the number of individuals that visit the Pismo Beach coast,
and to comply with Public Resources Code Section 30001.5(c) and the California
Coastal Act, the parking exceptions identified in subsection
17.117.070.D. of this chapter do not apply to properties meeting all of the
following:
         a.   Property located within the Coastal Zone;
         b.   Property located west of U.S. Route 101; and
         c.   Located within one-quarter mile (1,320 feet) walking distance of
one (1) of the following:
            i.   A vertical access point to the beach;
            ii.   A segment of the Coastal Trail;
            iii.   A coastal park; or
            iv.   A coastal view area.
   C.   Outside the Coastal Zone. In addition to the requirements of section A.
above, for ADUs outside the Coastal Zone, one (1) parking space per unit is
required.
   D.   Exceptions. Additional parking for ADUs shall not be required for units
meeting any of the following standards:
      1.   The ADU is located within one-half (½) mile walking distance of
public transit.
      2.   The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically
significant historic district.
      3.   The ADU is part of the proposed or existing primary unit or
accessory structure.
      4.   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to the
occupant of the ADU.
      5.   When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of the
ADU. (Ord. O-2021- 001 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.080 Development standards.
   A.   Development Standards for New Construction Accessory Dwelling Units.
      1.   Occupancy. The following occupancy standards shall be applied to
every ADU and JADU in the city:
         a.   Short-Term Rental Use Prohibited. In no case shall a short-term
rental use of less than thirty (30) days be permitted in JADUs or ADUs; these
units shall be occupied for terms longer than thirty (30) days.
         b.   Sale. ADUs and JADUS shall not be sold separately from the
primary unit.
            i.   Exception. An ADU can be sold or conveyed separately from the
primary residence to a qualified buyer if the property was built or developed
by a qualified nonprofit corporation and all provisions of California
Government Code Section 65852.26 are met.
         c.   Owner Residency. The following requirements apply to all JADUs.
Additionally, the following requirements apply to all ADUs except those
permitted between January 1, 2020 and January 1, 2025.
            i.   Unless owned by a government agency, land trust, or public or
nonprofit housing organization, the property owner shall permanently reside, as
evidenced by a homeowner's property tax exemption, on the parcel in either the
primary unit, ADU, or JADU.
            ii.   A deed restriction shall be recorded against the title of the
property that contains the ADU or JADU, prior to issuance of a building permit.
Such deed restriction shall stipulate the owner residency requirement and that
the ADU or JADU cannot be sold separately.
      2.   Minimum Parcel Size. No minimum parcel size shall be required to
establish an ADU or JADU.
      3.   Unit Size.
         a.   Minimum unit size, JADU or ADU: One hundred fifty (150) square
feet ("efficiency unit" per California Health and Safety Code section 17958.1).
         b.   Maximum unit size, JADU: Five hundred (500) square feet.
         c.   Maximum unit size, ADU:
            i.   Conversion ADU: None.
            ii.   New Construction ADU: Eight hundred fifty (850) square feet
(studio or one (1) bedroom), one thousand (1,000) square feet (two (2)
bedrooms), or fifty percent (50%) of the primary unit, whichever is smaller.
            iii.   Regardless of subsections i. - ii. of this section and other
site standards such as private open space or vegetation, an ADU must be allowed
to be at least eight hundred (800) square feet.
      4.   Setbacks.
         a.   JADUs and Conversion ADUs. Setbacks shall be sufficient for fire
safety in conformance with the Building Code and Fire Code. Additions up to one
hundred fifty (150) square feet shall meet setback requirements for new
construction ADUs.
         b.   New Construction ADUs. ADUs shall comply with front and street
side setbacks for the applicable zoning district. Minimum side and rear
setbacks shall be four (4) feet or the setback for the applicable zoning
district, whichever is less, with the following exceptions:
            i.   No setback shall be required for an existing living area or
accessory structure, or a structure constructed in the same location and to the
same dimensions as an existing structure that is converted to an ADU or to a
portion of an ADU.
            ii.   ADUs subject to environmental buffers and constraints under
the California Coastal Act.
      5.   Height.
         a.   JADUs and Conversion ADUs. Additions of up to one hundred fifty
(150) square feet shall meet height requirements for new construction ADUs.
         b.   New Construction ADUs. Height shall be no greater than permitted
in to the applicable zoning district height standards, dependent upon ADU
configuration, but not less than sixteen (16) feet unless otherwise identified
in the City's Local Coastal Plan in order to protect coastal resources.
      6.   Lot Coverage and Maximum Building Area.
         a.   JADUs and Conversion ADUs: Additions of up to one hundred fifty
(150) square feet shall meet lot coverage and maximum building area
requirements for new construction ADUs.
         b.   New Construction ADUs: Lot coverage and maximum building area
shall comply with the standard for the applicable zoning district, except that
an ADU of up to eight hundred (800) square feet shall be allowed, regardless of
lot coverage and maximum building area.
      7.   Design. The design, materials, and color of a new construction ADU
shall be compatible with that of the primary unit.
      8.   Number of Bedrooms. There is no maximum number of bedrooms for an
ADU or JADU.
      9.   Utility Services. The primary unit, ADU, and JADU may be served from
the same gas, electricity, and water lines, at the discretion of the property
owner. No development shall be approved that would exceed the capacity of the
municipal utility systems. Specifically, all applications received for ADUs and
JADUs shall be accompanied by evidence provided by the municipal utility
provider that there are adequate services/capacities to serve the proposed
development.
      10.   Water Conservation. All plumbing fixtures in the primary unit, an
ADU, and a JADU must meet current Building Energy Efficiency Standards - Title
24 requirements for water conservation.
      11.   Consistency with Codes. New development shall comply with all
local, state, or federal regulations that apply to the property, including the
applicable requirements of the general plan/local coastal plan and certified
zoning ordinance. (Ord. O-2021-001 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.090 Fire sprinkler requirements.
   ADUs and JADUs shall not be required to include fire sprinklers if they are
not required for the primary unit. (Ord. O-2021-001 § 1 (part), 2021)
17.117.100   Illegal accessory dwelling unit.
   The establishment of an ADU or JADU without a zoning clearance or coastal
development permit as required by section
17.117.050 is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor and a
public nuisance. (Ord. O-2021-001 § 1 (part), 2021)
Chapter 17.118 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
17.118.010 Uses existing before effective date of zoning ordinance.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Title, uses of land, buildings or
structures existing at the time of adoption of this Title or its predecessor
ordinance may be continued although the particular use, or the building or
structure, does not conform to the regulations specified by this Title for the
district in which the particular building or structure is located or use is
made. No nonconforming use may be extended to occupy a greater area of land,
building or structure than is occupied at the time of the adoption of this
Title.
17.118.020 Discontinued nonconforming uses.
   If any nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for a period of one
year, any subsequent use of such land or building shall conform to the
regulations specified for the district in which such land or building is
located If any use is wholly discontinued for any reason except pursuant to a
valid order of a court of law for a period of one year, it shall be
conclusively presumed that such use has been abandoned within the meaning of
this Title, all future uses shall comply with the regulations of the particular
district in which the land or building is located.
17.118.040 Allowable changes.
   If no structural alterations are made therein, a nonconforming use or a
nonconforming building may be changed to another use of the same or more
restrictive classification upon the securing of a conditional use permit. If
the nonconforming use is replaced by a more restrictive (less intensive)
nonconforming use, the occupancy thereafter may not revert to a less
restrictive more intensive use.
17.118.050 Existing nonconforming structures--Structural alterations.
   Structural alterations including enlargement and extensions of any building
or structure existing at the date of the adoption of this Title, if
nonconforming in either design or arrangement, may be permitted only if such
alteration is in compliance with the regulations set forth in this Title for
the district where the building or structure is located. Any alteration which
exceeds two hundred square feet in floor area shall require architectural
review. The city planner may approve such alteration in the R-1 and R-2 zones.
Alterations in all other zones require the approval of the planning commission
as provided for in Chapter 17.121.
17.118.060 Maintenance and replacement.
   Nonconforming structures may be maintained, repaired or portions thereof
replaced upon securing the appropriate city approvals.
17.118.070 Destroyed buildings.
   A nonconforming building verified to have been destroyed to the extent of
more than fifty percent of its reasonable value at the time of its destruction
by fire, explosion, or other casualty or Act of God, may be restored,
reconstructed and used only in compliance with the regulations existing in the
district wherein it is located. Provided, however, that any single family R-
1 nonconforming use may be rebuilt on it original foundation by only the owner-
occupant at that time of destruction within a period of one year from the time
of destruction, regardless of the percentage of destruction.
17.118.080 Rezoning.
   The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall also apply, without
limitation, to structures, land and uses which hereafter become nonconforming
due to redistricting of any lands under provisions of this Title.
Chapter 17.119
TWO-UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN LOT SPLITS
17.119.010   Purpose and intent.
   This chapter is intended to:
   A.   Preserve, protect, and enhance the character of the city's different
residential neighborhoods;
   B.   Provide for and regulate urban lot splits and two-unit residential
development in a manner consistent with the requirements of Senate Bill 9;
   C.   Continue to protect coastal resources and allow and protect coastal
access;
   D.   Promote and ensure safe development in high fire zones.
(Ord. O-2023-002 § 2 (part), 2023)
17.119.020   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, terms shall be defined as follows:
   A.   "Accessory dwelling unit" has the same meaning ascribed in Section
17.117.030(A) of this Code.
   B.   "Junior accessory dwelling unit" has the same meaning ascribed in
Section
17.117.030(J) of this Code.
   C.   "Existing structure" means an original dwelling on the property.
   D.   "SB 9" or "Senate Bill 9" means the state law approved by the Governor
on September 16, 2021, amending California Government Code Section 66452.6 and
adding California Government Code Section 65852.21 and 66411.7.
   E.   "Two-residential unit development" means a housing development
containing no more than two (2) residential units within a single-family
residential zone permitted pursuant to the regulations set forth in SB 9.
   F.   "Unit" means any dwelling unit or units created pursuant to California
Government Code Section 66452.21, an existing structure, a primary dwelling
unit, an accessory dwelling unit or a junior accessory dwelling unit.
   G.   "Urban lot split" means a parcel map subdivision permitted pursuant to
the regulations set forth in SB 9 that creates no more than two (2) parcels of
approximately equal size.
(Ord. O-2023-002 § 2 (part), 2023)
17.119.030   Applicability; ministerial compliance review.
   A.   This chapter shall apply to all two-residential unit developments and
urban lot splits proposed for lots in R-1 (Single Family Residential) zones
pursuant to the regulations set forth in SB 9. Except as expressly provided in
this chapter or SB 9, all other regulations of the underlying zone of a
property developed pursuant to SB 9, including all applicable regulations from
the Pismo Beach Municipal Code, shall apply.
   B.   Required Approvals.
      1.   All two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits outside
the Coastal Zone shall be required to obtain zoning clearance and a building
permit and shall be subject to ministerial review by the Community Development
Director or designee to determine whether the criteria for approval have been
met. An urban lot split shall be processed as a parcel map, but no
discretionary review or public hearing shall be conducted if all required
criteria have been met.
      2.   Projects in the Coastal Appeal Zone shall be required to obtain a
coastal development permit and a building permit. The requirement for public
hearing is hereby waived . An urban lot split shall be processed as a parcel
map, but no discretionary review or public hearing shall be conducted if all
required criteria have been met. Action on a project is final, unless appealed
to the California Coastal Commission within ten (10) days of the Coastal
Commission's receipt of the notice of final action.
      3.   Projects in the Coastal Zone, Non-Appealable, shall be required to
obtain a coastal development permit and a building permit. The requirement for
public hearing is hereby waived. An urban lot split shall be processed as a
parcel map, but no discretionary review or public hearing shall be conducted if
all required criteria have been met.
      4.   For two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits in the
Coastal Zone, Appealable or Non-Appealable, for which a public hearing
requirement has been waived pursuant to this subsection, at least ten (10)
calendar days prior to the issuance of a coastal development permit, the City
shall provide notice by first class mail of the pending application for
development. This notice shall be provided to the persons, and contain the
information, identified in Section
17.124.090 of this Code for appealable and non-appealable developments, as
applicable.
   C.   All applicants for a two-residential unit development or an urban lot
split shall submit an application including:
      1.   A sworn statement affirming eligibility under SB 9 regulations;
      2.   All materials required by the Community Development Director;
      3.   Applicants for an urban lot split shall, in addition, sign an
affidavit stating that the owner intends to occupy one of the housing units as
their principal residence for at least three (3) years from the date of the
approval of the urban lot split. Provided, however, this provision shall not
apply to an owner that is a community land trust or qualified nonprofit
corporation as those terms are defined and described in California Revenue and
Taxation Code Sections 402.1 and 214.15, respectively.
   D.   The City may, at the applicant's expense, conduct independent inquiries
and investigation to ascertain the veracity of any or all portions of the sworn
statement.
(Ord. O-2023-002 § 2 (part), 2023)
17.119.040   General requirements.
   An applicant seeking approval of a two-residential unit development or urban
lot split shall:
   A.   Comply with SB 9; all objective requirements of other applicable state
law including the Subdivision Map Act; the Coastal Act and the City of Pismo
Beach Local Coastal Program; the Pismo Beach Municipal Code, including Title 17
and Title 16, except as expressly provided in SB 9, or in this chapter; and all
objective standards of this chapter.
   B.   Execute and record a covenant, supplied by the City and subject to the
approval of the City Attorney or designee, that contains the following
provisions:
      1.   Non-residential uses are prohibited on the property subject to
development under SB 9 and this chapter;
      2.   Rental or leasing of any unit or units on the property for a period
of thirty (30) days or less is prohibited;
      3.   Ongoing compliance with SB 9 requirements and restrictions is
required ;
      4.   Access to the public right-of-way shall be maintained in perpetuity;
      6.   If the applicant is seeking approval of an urban lot split, any
subsequent urban lot split of the property is prohibited.
(Ord. O-2023-002 § 2 (part), 2023)
17.119.050   Parking.
   All two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits shall comply with
the following objective standards for parking:
   A.   One (1) enclosed or partially enclosed parking space is required for
each unit created pursuant to the regulations in SB 9 and this chapter and such
parking space shall be located on the same parcel as the unit.
   B.   Parking required for a unit created pursuant to SB 9 and this chapter
is in addition to any parking required for the existing structure, should it
remain on the property. If an existing garage, carport, or other parking is
converted or demolished in order to construct the new unit, the required
parking space(s) that are displaced shall be replaced on the same property to
satisfy the parking requirements of the existing structure.
   C.   Exceptions. Additional parking spaces required under Subsection
17.119.050. A of this Code shall not be required for units developed pursuant
to SB 9 and this chapter if the property upon which the unit is created meets
one or more of the following criteria:
      1.   Is within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of a high-quality
transit corridor, as defined in California Public Resources Code Section
21155e, or a major transit stop, as defined in California Public Resources Code
Section 21064.3, or
      2.   There is a car share vehicle located within one (1) block of the
project.
   D.   Parking in the Coastal Zone.
      1.   For units in the Coastal Zone, the parking standards set forth in
Section
17.119.050 A-C above shall apply except that due to the number of individuals
that visit the Pismo Beach coast, and to comply with Public Resources Code
Section 30001.5(c) and the California Coastal Act, the requirements of
paragraphs (2) and (3) below shall apply to properties meeting all of the
following:
         a.   Property located within the Coastal Zone;
         b.   Property located west of U.S. Route 101; and
         c.   Located within one-quarter mile (1,320 feet) walking distance of
one of the following:
            i.   A vertical access point to the beach;
            ii.   A segment of the Coastal Trail;
            iii.   A coastal park; or
            iv.   A coastal view area.
      2.   One (1) off-street parking space is required for each studio and
one-bedroom unit created pursuant to the regulations in SB 9 and this chapter
and such parking space shall be located on the same parcel as the unit.
      3.   Two (2) off-street parking spaces are required for each two-bedroom
or larger unit created pursuant to the regulations in SB 9 and this chapter and
such parking space shall be located on the same parcel as the unit.
   E.   Required off-street parking may be provided as tandem parking on an
existing driveway provided all requirements in subsection
17.108.030.A.7.a are met.
   F.   Each required parking space shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Each parking space shall have minimum dimensions of nine (9) feet by
twenty (20) feet.
      2.   All parking spaces shall be located behind existing or future
sidewalk, or other public right-of-way.
      3.   All parking spaces shall be located on an all-weather surface as
approved by the City Engineer or designee (e.g., hardscape, gravel) and be
accessed by a driveway apron or curb cut.
(Ord. O-2023-002 § 2 (part), 2023)
17.119.060   Development standards.
   All two-residential development units and urban lot splits shall comply with
the following objective development standards:
   A.   Driveways.
      1.   A driveway may be shared by not more than two (2) units and no more
than two (2) lots.
      2.   More than one (1) driveway per lot is prohibited on lots with less
than sixty (60) feet of public street frontage.
   B.   Setback Requirements. All units in a two-residential unit development
and/or on an urban lot split shall comply with the setback standards for R-
1 zones and be subject to environmental buffers and constraints under the
Coastal Act and Local Coastal Program. Provided, however, no setback shall be
required for an existing structure or structure constructed in the same
location and to the same dimensions as the existing structure, unless otherwise
identified in the City's Local Coastal Plan in order to protect coastal
resources (e.g., bluff, wetland, stream, Environmentally Sensitive Habitat
Areas setbacks).
   C.   Occupancy.
      1.   Non-residential uses on the property subject to a two-residential
unit development or an urban lot split are prohibited.
      2.   Short-Term Rental Prohibited. A short-term rental use of thirty (30)
days or less shall not be permitted in units developed pursuant to SB 9 and
this chapter. Units developed pursuant to SB 9 and this chapter shall be
occupied for terms longer than thirty (30) days.
   D.   Height. Height of a unit developed pursuant to SB 9 and the chapter
shall be no greater than permitted in R-1 zones and shall be consistent with
the City's Local Coastal Plan in order to protect coastal resources.
   E.   Lot Coverage and Maximum Building Areas. Lot coverage and maximum
building areas shall comply with the applicable standard for R-1 zones, except
as provided in Section
17.119.070.
   F.   No accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit shall be
permitted on a parcel subject to an urban lot split under this chapter and also
improved with a two-residential unit development under this chapter.
   G.   Two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits are not
permitted on parcels located in the R-1 zone above the intersection of Longview
Avenue and Stratford Street in the Pismo Heights planning area due to being in
very high fire hazard severity zones, as determined by the California
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection pursuant to California Government
Code Section 51178, or within a high or very high fire hazard severity zone as
indicated on maps adopted by the California Department of Forestry and Fire
Protection pursuant to California Public Resources Code Section 4202 and is
coextensive with traffic flow and public safety concerns as this area has only
one ingress and egress.
   H.   More than twenty-five (25) percent of the exterior structural walls of
the existing structure shall not be demolished if the existing structure has
been occupied by a tenant in the three (3) years prior to the submission of an
SB 9 Development Project application.
   I.   An urban lot split shall comply with SB 9 and the following standards:
      1.   No lot resulting from an urban lot split shall be smaller than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
      2.   No lot resulting from an urban lot split shall have more than two
(2) residential units inclusive of any accessory dwelling unit or junior
accessory dwelling unit.
      3.   The two lots resulting from an urban lot split shall be
approximately equal, and no smaller than forty (40) percent or larger than
sixty (60) percent of the lot area of the original parcel.
      4.   No flag lots shall be created as a result of an urban lot split if
the subject property is adjacent to an alley, located on a corner, or on a
through lot.
      5.   The width of any lot resulting from an urban lot split shall not be
less than twenty (20) feet wide.
      6.   The proposed parcel map shall demonstrate ability to access the
public right-of-way in perpetuity.
   J.   Two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits permitted on
parcels located in the R-1 zone shall be consistent with all applicable
provisions of the City's Local Coastal Program, including necessary setbacks
from coastal bluffs and other coastal hazards to be safe from the threat of
bluff erosion for a minimum of one hundred (100) years pursuant to Section
17.078.050 of this Code, and shall be consistent with the following criteria:
      1.   The two-residential unit development or urban lot split is designed
to minimize risks to life and property in areas of geologic and flood hazard;
      2.   The two-residential unit development or urban lot split is designed
to assure stability and structural integrity, and neither create nor contribute
significantly to erosion, geologic instability, or destruction of the site or
surrounding area;
      3.   The two-residential unit development or urban lot split does not
require the construction of protective devices that would substantially alter
natural landforms along bluffs and cliffs;
      4.   The two-residential unit development or urban lot split is sited and
designed to prevent significant degradation of adjacent sensitive habitats and
recreation areas;
      5.   The two-residential unit development or urban lot split is sited and
designed to maintain coastal resources and public access to coastal resources.
   K.   The creation of new building sites, lots, or parcels pursuant to this
chapter is prohibited in areas subject to coastal hazards, or in the area
necessary to ensure a stable building site for the minimum 100-year lifetime.
(Ord. O-2023-002 § 2 (part), 2023)
17.119.070   Exceptions.
   The Community Development Director shall approve an exception to any of the
standards specified in this chapter, other than those required for compliance
with the Coastal Act and Local Coastal Program, upon determining that complying
with the standards would physically preclude the construction of up to two (2)
residential units per lot or would physically preclude either of the two
residential units from being eight hundred (800) square feet in floor area.
(Ord. O-2023-002 § 2 (part), 2023)
17.119.080   Denial.
   The Building Official or Community Development Director may deny an
application for a two-residential unit development or an urban lot split upon
making both the following findings in writing based on a preponderance of the
evidence:
   A.   The proposal would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public
health and safety or the physical environment as defined and determined in
California Government Code Section 65589.5(d)(2).
   B.   There is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the
specific, adverse impact.
(Ord. O-2023-002 § 2 (part), 2023)
Chapter 17.121 APPLICATIONS, PERMITS, PROCEDURES AND APPEALS
17.121.005 Permit approvals.
   All permits granted pursuant to this ordinance shall be supported by
explicit findings describing the consistency with all code requirements and
general plan/local coastal program land use plan policies and programs.
17.121.010 Development permit non-coastal.
   Non-Coastal. Development Permits are required for any new construction of a
permitted use (as established by Chapter 17.009 herein) in all zones except the
R-1 and R-2 zones. In addition, development permits are also required for any
new permitted uses in a zone whereby the establishment of the new use would
result in an intensification of use over the previous land use activity on the
site. Development permits provide for planning commission review of
architectural design, pursuant to Chapter 17.105 herein, landscaping and off-
street parking and loading requirements. All developments shall be encouraged
to be designed and developed as a cohesive unit by taking advantage of modern
site planning techniques. Development permits may be conditioned by the
planning commission to ensure compatibility of development with city goals and
policies. Development permits are subject to the public hearing and notice
procedures established by Chapter 17.121 herein.
17.121.020 Conditional use permits.
   Conditional use permits are required for any new construction of a
conditionally permitted use (as established by Chapter 17.009 herein) in any
zone. Conditional use permits provide for planning commission review of uses
determined compatible with particular zones on a conditional basis. Such uses
must be found to have no significant negative impact on the vicinity, views,
aesthetics or health, safety and welfare of the community. The planning
commission may impose such conditions as it deems necessary to secure the
purposes of this Title and may require tangible guarantees or evidence that
such conditions are being, or will be complied with. Conditional use permits
are subject to the public hearing and notice procedures established by Chapter
17.121 herein.
17.121.030 Variances.
   Variances from the structural developments standards of this Title for any
zone may be granted by the planning commission when unusual hardships arise
from the strict application of said standards applicable to a property.
Variances may only be granted when all of the following circumstances are found
to apply by the planning commission.
   A.   That any variance granted shall be subject to such conditions as will
assure that the adjustment thereby authorized shall not constitute a grant of
special privilege inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in
the vicinity and district in which the subject property is situated.
   B.   That because of special circumstances applicable to subject property,
including size, shape, topography, location or surroundings, the strict
application of the zoning ordinance is found to deprive subject property of
development potentials available to other properties in the vicinity and under
identical current zone classifications; and
   C.   The special circumstances affecting the subject property are unique to
the site and do not apply equally to other lots in the vicinity under identical
zone classifications.
   Variances are subject to the public hearing and notice procedures
established by Chapter 17.121 herein.
17.121.035 Planned development permit.
   A.   The planned development permit is intended to provide a process for
allowing greater flexibility in site planning and design than afforded by the
general development standards of this zoning code, to encourage more innovative
and desirable projects, workforce, affordable and senior housing, and efficient
use of land than may be possible through strict application of conventional
zoning regulations. The planned development permit shall not be considered for
flexibility of standards and/or requirements specified in Chapters 17.066
(Coastal Access Overlay Zone), 17.075 (Floodplain Overlay Zone), 17.078
(Hazards and Protection Overlay Zone), 17.081 (Height Limitations Overlay
Zone), 17.096 (View Consideration Overlay Zone), or any development standards
specified in the general plan/local coastal plan.
   B.   Applicability. Planned development permits may be authorized for any
outstanding development project in any zoning district. While subject to the
city's health and safety standards specified in the International Building
Code, flexibility of the application of the following zoning code development
standards may be considered up to the limits identified in this section:
   1.   Structure location and setbacks, yard areas, and open spaces in the R-
1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and R-R zoning districts subject to the indicated limits:
   a.   Front setback may be reduced to ten percent of the lot depth but no
less than five feet.
   b.   Side setback may be reduced to seven percent of the lot width but no
less than three feet.
   c.   Street side setback shall be a minimum of seven feet.
   d.   Rear setback may be reduced to seven percent of the lot depth.
   2.   Building height may exceed twenty percent of the maximum specified in
general plan policy D-2a for fifty percent of the building footprint. This
exception, inclusive of exceptions to building heights specified in Section
17.102.010, can only be considered for development in the downtown commercial
core planning area and general plan/local coastal plan areas designated for
commercial, resort commercial, public/semi public and industrial land uses.
   3.   Parking and loading requirements, ingress and egress location. Parking
requirements may be reduced up to fifty percent from those specified in Section
17.108.020 so long as there is no reduction in parking available for public
coastal access. Loading requirements, ingress, and egress may be determined by
the planning commission.
   4.   Fences, walls and screening noted in Section 17.102.120 (1 and 2) may
be exceeded by up to fifty percent.
   5.   Landscaping requirements may be no less than fifteen percent of a total
lot area in residential zones and seven percent of a lot area in commercial or
other zoning districts.
   6.   Lot coverage not to exceed:
   a.   R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and R-R zoning districts - seventy-five percent.
   b.   C-1, C-2 and G zoning districts - ninety percent.
   c.   C-M zoning district - fifty percent.
   7.   Total building area/floor area ratio as follows:
   a.   R-1 zoning district - eighty-six percent of the first two thousand
seven hundred square feet of lot area plus seventy percent of any lot area in
excess of two thousand seven hundred square feet.
   b.   R-2 zoning district - ninety percent for multi-family housing, single-
family houses shall be the same as the R-1 zoning district.
   c.   R-3, R-4 and R-R zoning districts - one hundred thirty-five percent
except that single- family houses shall be the same as the R-1 zoning district.
   d.   C-1, C-2 and G zoning districts - two hundred twenty percent.
   e.   C-M zoning district - seventy percent.
   8.   Lot width:
   a.   R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-R zoning districts - No less than forty feet.
   b.   C-M zoning district - No less than fifty feet.
   C.   Outstanding development qualifications. The qualifications for
outstanding development will include one of the following for each request for
flexibility of any single development standard:
   1.   For non-residential development:
   a.   Additional and improvement of open space exceeding fifteen percent of
the required zoning code minimum.
   b.   A public recreational amenity exceeding the requirements of the city's
general plan/local coastal plan and zoning code, including but not limited to a
public plaza area, beach access facility (examples: stairway, bluff top trail,
or accessible lift), bicycle service and storage area, or other public
recreational amenity of similar scope and public value determined by the
planning commission to enhance public recreational opportunities.
   c.   An enhanced pedestrian, bicycle, and/or vehicle connectivity element
exceeding the minimum established by the municipal code.
   d.   On-site public art subject to city approval as a part of the planned
development permitting process.
   e.   Solar panel installation.
   f.   Building construction that meets or exceeds provisions outlined in
Title 24: Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and Nonresidential
Buildings.
   g.   Workforce, affordable and senior housing residential dwelling units as
a part of a mixed use project.
   h.   Other community benefits including but not limited to public restrooms,
sand showers, public full body showers with private enclosures, private
dressing areas for public use, affordable overnight accommodations assured by
deed restrictions, or other amenities determined by the planning commission to
provide a community benefit not addressed in C.1.a.-g.
   2.   For residential development:
   a.   Addition of a secondary dwelling unit.
   b.   Solar panel installation.
   c.   Green build project components exceeding those required by Title 24:
Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and Nonresidential Buildings.
   d.   Construction of workforce, affordable or senior housing.
   D.   Project review. Each planned development permit application shall be
analyzed by the director to determine the implications of the proposed changes
of site design standard, and to ensure that the application will result in an
exemplary project characterized by more efficient and environmentally sensitive
use and development of land than would otherwise be achieved utilizing standard
development requirements. The application shall also be reviewed to verify that
the project is otherwise consistent with all other applicable provisions of
this zoning code. The director shall prepare a report and recommendation on the
proposal to the planning commission.
   E.   Notice and hearings. The planning commission shall hold a public
hearing in compliance with Section
17.121.210 and Chapter 17.124. The planning commission may approve or
disapprove the planned development permit in conjunction with and as part of
the required coastal development permit.
   F.   Findings, decision, conditions. The planning commission shall identity
findings upon which the decision to approve or deny the planned unit
development permit. The planning commission may approve a planned development
permit application with or without conditions, if all of the following findings
are made:
   1.   The proposed use is a permitted or conditional use within the
applicable zoning district and complies with all applicable provisions of this
zoning code that are not the subject of the planned development permit
application;
   2.   The proposed use is consistent with the general plan/local coastal
plan;
   3.   The approval of the planned development permit for the proposed use is
in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA);
   4.   The location and operating characteristics of the proposed use are
compatible with the existing and anticipated future land uses in the vicinity;
   5.   The project's design and configuration do not negatively impact coastal
resources;
   6.   The planning commission identifies a nexus and proportionality between
the outstanding development quality and the requirement for the flexibility
being sought;
   7.   The development standards as specified for the project have been varied
to the minimum extent necessary in order to facilitate the outstanding quality
of the development project;
   8.   The planned development permit offers a greater public benefit than
would be otherwise required by the underlying zoning requirements;
   9.   The development meets all applicable general plan/local coastal plan
policies and overlay zone requirements.
   G.   Expiration. A planned development permit shall be exercised within two
years from the date of approval or the permit shall become void, unless an
extension is approved consistent with Section
17.121.160. (Ord. O-2015-006 § 2 (part), 2015: Ord. O-2014-005 § 2 (part),
2014)
17.121.040 Non-allowable: variances.
   A.   The use of lands or buildings not in conformity with the regulations
specified for the district in which such lands or buildings are located may not
be allowed by the granting of a variance from the strict application of the
terms of this Title.
   B.   Similar existing, nonconforming or illegal situations in the vicinity
of a property are not evidence that would justify a variance in that the
standards of the current zoning ordinance apply equally to conforming,
nonconforming or illegal situations.
   C.   Variances proposed as a result of hardships that are self-imposed may,
not be allowed.
   D.   Density variances other than as provided in the adopted housing element
portion of the general plan/local coastal program land use plan.
17.121.050 Coastal development permits.
   Any application for development (as defined herein in the coastal zone shall
be required to obtain a coastal development permit in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 17.124, in addition to any other permit required by local
ordinance.
17.121.060 Modifications to permits.
   Modifications to previously issued permits may be issued subject to the
following criteria:
   A.   Major modifications to planning commission permits, including
significant departures from the original planning commission approval, shall
require planning commission review and approval pursuant to the public hearing
and notice procedures of Chapter 17.121;
   B.   Minor modifications to planning commission permits, including minor
changes not affecting the use, design or intent of the original planning
commission approval, may be approved by the city planner;
   C.   The city planner shall determine whether a proposed project
modification is of a minor or major nature.
17.121.070 Architectural review permits.
   Architectural review permits are required for any new construction of a
permitted use (as established by Chapter 17.105 herein) as follows:
   A.   Conforming new construction or additions in excess of two hundred sq.
ft. on a substandard parcel in the R-1 and R-2 zones;
   B.   Conforming additions in excess of two hundred sq. ft. to existing
nonconforming structures in the R-1 and R-2 zones; and
   C.   Tract home developments when referred by conditions of the planning
commission and/or city council.
   The city planner may approve the above development applications.
17.121.080 Sign permits.
   Sign permits are required for all new signs or face changes of existing
signs pursuant to the requirements established in Chapter 17.111. Signs
requiring planning commission approval shall be subject to the public hearing
and notice procedures established in Chapter 17.121. Architectural review of
sign applications shall be required when planning commission approval is
required (see Section
17.105.120)
17.121.090 Home occupation permits.
   Home occupation permits are required for all permitted residential
occupations pursuant to the requirements established in
Chapter 17.115.
17.121.095 Short-term rental and homestay permits.
   Short-term rental/homestay permits are required for all permitted short-term
rental and homestay uses in residential zones pursuant to the requirements
established in
Chapter 17.113. (Ord. O-2018-006 § 6, 2018)
17.121.100 Zone clearances.
   Zoning clearances shall be required for any permitted and conforming
buildings and structures hereinafter erected, constructed, altered, repaired,
or moved within or into any residential district established by this Title.
Said zoning clearances shall be issued by the community development department
prior to the issuance of a building permit. Zoning clearances may only be
issued for those uses in residential zones which do not require planning
commission or architectural review. The community development and other city
departments may impose such conditions to the zoning clearance as are deemed
necessary to secure the purposes of this Title. (Ord. O-2018-010 § 4, 2018)
17.121.110 Permits for temporary structures.
   The city planner may authorize the use of a temporary structure(s) used
during construction as a construction office and storage use only, and only
when a building permit has been issued. Temporary structures may be permitted
for a six month period, and may be extended for a maximum of six months under
special circumstances upon application to the public services department.
Temporary structures must be removed prior to issuance of an occupancy permit.
A security deposit and/or bonding may be required.
17.121.120 Temporary real estate sales office and/or temporary model home
complex.
   A temporary real estate sales office and/or a temporary model home complex
may be established only within the boundaries of lots within the same
subdivision. No temporary real estate sales office or model home complex may be
established or maintained as provided in this article unless the following
requirements are met:
   A.   An agreement, together with a surety bond in a form approved by the
city attorney or a cash deposit in an amount sufficient to guarantee to the
city the removal of the sales office and/or model home complex and/or the
restoration of the premises in conformity with the approved development plan
and with the applicable provisions of this code, is posted with an accepted by
the public works director;
   B.   The requested facilities shall be located adjacent to an arterial
street if the subdivision borders on an arterial street;
   C.   The facilities and users shall be consistent with the general plan;
   D.   The facilities shall be subject to the approval of the city planner.
17.121.130 Temporary circuses and Christmas tree lots.
   The city planner may authorize temporary circuses and Christmas tree lots in
the C-I and C-2 zones only if the following requirements are met:
   A.   A refundable cash deposit in an amount not to exceed five hundred
dollars is provided to the city to guarantee the restoration of the premises to
its original condition.
   B.   A zone clearance shall be required for any such type.
   C.   The duration of Christmas tree lots shall not be for more than one
forty day period during any one year.
17.121.140 Temporary sidewalk sales.
   The city planner may authorize temporary sidewalk sales for existing
businesses or charitable, non-profit organizations in commercial zones only if
the following requirements are met.
   A.   The duration of the sidewalk sales on public property shall not be more
than seven consecutive days during any ninety day period of time.
   B.   On premise, outdoor sales, not to exceed one hundred fifty sq. ft. in
area may be permitted for existing businesses, or charitable, non-profit
organizations.
   C.   A zone clearance shall be required for any such type.
   D.   Parking spaces, driveways and walkways shall not be blocked.
   E.   Except as provided above, the possession of a business license shall
not authorize any person to operate any business on or within city sidewalks,
streets, parking lots, piers, beaches or any other property under the
jurisdiction or control of the city unless and until said person holds a then
valid permit, lease, or other written authorization from the city council to
operate said business on said property.
17.121.150 Temporary/continuing outdoor art shows and sales.
   The planning commission may approve conditional use permits for temporary or
continuing outdoor art shows and art sales in C-1, C-2, R-R and R-4 zones,
provided that the following findings are made:
   A.   The use is consistent with the general plan.
   B.   Sufficient assurances are provided by the applicant that the use will
be conducted in an orderly manner and will not create a nuisance. The planning
commission may assess conditions as necessary to achieve these goals.
   C.   Business licenses or permits are required for the maximum number of
exhibitors selling at any one art show.
   D.   Said permits shall be reviewed by the planning commission on a yearly
basis.
   E.   An application fee of fifty dollars shall be required for first-time
permits and thirty dollars for each yearly renewal.
   F.   Police shall be responsible for enforcement of numbers of exhibitors.
(Refer to Arts and Craft Show Ordinance #315)
17.121.155 Prohibition of off-site vending.
   Off-site vending not otherwise permitted by Section
17.121.140 shall be prohibited.
17.121.160 Expiration of permits.
   A.   Any of the above permits granted under the terms of this Title shall,
without further action, become null and void if not inaugurated within twenty-
four months of the date of approval of within any shorter period of time if so
designated by the approving authority.
   B.   Upon application filed prior to the expiration date of the approved
permit, the time at which the permit expires may be extended by the planning
commission for a period or periods of time not exceeding an additional twenty-
four months.
17.121.170 Applicability of ordinance of general plan local coastal plan
changes.
   Approved permits shall be subject to any changes in this Title or the
general plan/local coastal program land use plan adopted after the date of
approval of the permit but prior to inauguration of the use.
17.121.180 Revocation of permits.
   Any permit granted in accordance with the terms of this Title may be revoked
by the planning commission in the manner hereinafter set forth, if any of the
conditions or terms of such permits are violated, or if the following findings
are made.
   A.   In Connection With Use Permits. The continuance of the use would be
detrimental to the health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare of the
persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such use, or would be
injurious or detrimental to property and improvements in the neighborhood or to
the general welfare of the city.
   B.   In Connection With Variances. Continued relief from the strict
application of the terms of this Title would be contrary to the public
interest, safety, health and welfare.
17.121.190 Revocation of permit hearings.
   Before the planning commission considers revocation of any permit, the
planning commission shall hold a public hearing thereon after giving written
notice thereof to the permittee at least ten days in advance of such hearing.
17.121.200 Application for permit.
   Applications for permits shall be made in writing by the owners of the
property, lessee, purchaser in escrow, or optionee with the consent of the
owners, on a form prescribed by the planning commission of the city of Pismo
beach. The application shall be accompanied by a fee, set by the city council,
and plans showing the details of the proposed use to be made of the land or
building. Such plans may include:
   A.   Plot and site plans;
   B.   Floor plans;
   C.   Elevations;
   D.   Topographic maps; and
   E.   Other plans and written descriptions as deemed necessary by the public
services department.
   Variance requests shall require extensive evidence showing:
   1.   The variance will not be contrary to the public health, safety or
welfare; and
   2.   Due to exceptional characteristics of the property or its location, the
strict application of this Title would result in extreme practical difficulties
and unnecessary hardship as related to development of the site exclusively.
   Concurrent with project application, a written commitment from the
wastewater service district is required. A written commitment is a letter, with
appropriate conditions, from the wastewater service district guaranteeing that
the required level of service for the project will be available prior to
issuance of building permits. The city decision making body shall not approve
any development project unless it determines that such project has adequate
sewage treatment plant capacity. (Ord. 04-02 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2004)
17.121.210 Notice of public hearing procedures.
   Notice of public hearing shall be given as required by law. Said notice
shall include the time and place of such hearing, the type and nature of the
application, a brief description of the project and the project location. The
proposed project site shall be posted with such notice in addition to general
public notice either by newspaper or at three designated public posting
locations in the city or both at least ten days prior to said public hearing.
Notice of public hearings shall be made to property owners and tenants within
one hundred feet of a project site by first class mail. Any failure to post
public notices as aforesaid shall not invalidate any proceedings for the
amendment to this zoning ordinance.
17.121.220 Permit issuance.
   All planning commission permits and variances shall not be issued until ten
business days have elapsed from granting thereof, and in case an appeal is
filed from the planning commission decision thereon shall not be issued until a
decision is made by the city council on such appeal.
17.121.225 Growth management allocation procedures.
   Distribution of growth management allocations for residential construction
and/or tract map recordation shall be done in compliance with applicable
policies and procedures identified in the city's general plan/local coastal
program land use plan including but not limited to programs GP-1, GP-2, GP-
3 and GP-4.
17.121.230 Acknowledgment.
   All permits and variances shall not have any force and effect until the
permittee acknowledges receipt thereof and acceptance of any conditions
thereof.
17.121.240 Appeals of staff decisions.
   In case an applicant or any other person is not satisfied with the action of
the city planner on a permit decision, ordinance interpretation or similar
matter, he may appeal in writing to the planning commission. Upon receipt of
such appeal, the public services department shall set the matter for public
hearing and notice thereof to be given as provided in Section
17.121.210. The written appeal shall include a description of the nature and
reasons for the appeal.
17.121.250 Appeals of Planning Commission decisions.
   In case the applicant or any other person is not satisfied with the action
of the Planning Commission on any Permit or Variance application, he may,
within ten (10) business days appeal in writing to the City Council. Upon
receipt of such appeal, the City Council shall set the matter for public
hearing, notice thereof to be given as provided by law. The written appeal
shall include a description of the nature and reasons for the appeal.
Chapter 17.124 COASTAL PERMITTING PROCEDURES
17.124.010 Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide required implementation procedures
as required to implement the certified land use plan pursuant to the California
Coastal Act, codified in Section 30000 et seq. of the Public Resources Code.
The city finds that the additional requirements of this chapter are necessary
to implement said land use plan.
17.124.020 Authority—Conflict.
   This chapter is adopted to implement the city's certified land use plan and
the California Coastal Act. In the case of any conflict between this chapter
and any other chapter of this Title, or other provisions of the city code, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
17.124.030 Permits required.
   Developments, as defined in Section
17.006.0365 of this Title, require a coastal development permit except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. Such permits are subject to the provisions
of the certified land use plan, Certified zoning ordinance, subdivision
regulations, Grading and Erosion Control Ordinance and the procedural
requirements for coastal development permits as described herein.
17.124.040 Boundaries of the coastal zone.
   The boundary of the coastal zone shall be as established by the California
Legislature and as described on official maps maintained by the California
Coastal Commission. Developments outside this zone shall not be subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
17.124.060 Coastal development permit application procedures.
   The information required in the applicable zone designation as established
within the certified land use plan and zoning ordinance shall be submitted
prior to the filing of a coastal development permit application. The
application shall be made on a form provided by the public services department
and shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee.
17.124.065 Growth management allocation procedures.
   Distribution of growth management allocations for residential construction
and/or tract map recordation shall be done in compliance with applicable
policies and procedures identified in the city's general plan/local coastal
program land use plan including but not limited to programs GP-1, GP-2, GP-
3 and GP-4.
17.124.070 Developments subject to the administrative coastal development
permit application procedures.
   A.   Coastal development permit applications for the following developments
shall be given an administrative (staff) review, with the exception of those
projects requiring a public hearing as described by this chapter:
   1.   The construction of a single family residence pursuant to the standards
of this Title on a parcel of record as of January 23, 1980.
   2.   An addition to a single family residence pursuant to the standards or
this Title.
   3.   A permitted use in a nonappealable R-2 Zone pursuant to Section
17.124.100.
17.124.071 Emergency permits.
   A.   Applications.
   1.   Applications in case of emergency shall, be made by letter to the
public services director (director) or in person or by telephone, if time does
not allow.
   2.   The following information should be included in the request:
   a.   Nature of the emergency;
   b.   Cause of the emergency, insofar as this can be established;
   c.   Location of the emergency;
   d.   The remedial, protective, or preventive work required to deal with the
emergency; and
   e.   The circumstances during the emergency that appeared to justify the
cause(s) of action taken, including the probable consequences of failing to
take action.
   B.   Verification of Emergency. The director shall verify the facts
including the existence and the nature of the emergency, insofar as time
allows. An emergency defined as "a sudden unexpected occurrence demanding
immediate action to prevent or mitigate loss or damage to life, health,
property or essential public services."
   C.   Criteria for Granting Permit.
   1.   The director shall provide public notice of the emergency work, with
the extent and type of notice determined on the basis of the nature of
emergency.
   2.   The director may grant an emergency permit. If granted, it shall
include reasonable and any appropriate conditions, including an expiration date
and the necessity for a regular permit application within thirty days. The
following findings are required for granting an emergency permit:
   a.   An emergency exists that requires action more quickly than permitted by
the procedures for administrative permits and the work can and will be
completed within thirty days unless otherwise specified by the terms of the
permit;
   b.   Public comment on the proposed emergency action has been reviewed, if
time allows; and
   c.   The work proposed would be consistent with the requirements of the
certified local coastal program.
   D.   Report to City Council.
   1.   The director shall report, in writing to the city council at its first
scheduled meeting after the emergency permit has been issued, the nature of the
emergency and the work involved. Copies of this report shall be available at
the meeting and shall be mailed to all persons who have requested such
notification in writing.
   2.   The report of the director shall be information only; the decision to
issue an emergency permit is solely at the discretion of the director, subject
to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 95-14 § 1 1995)
17.124.075 Notice of categorically excluded developments.
   A permit issued by the city for a development which is categorically
excluded from the coastal development permit requirements pursuant to Public
Resources Code Section 30610(e) whether within or outside the appealable area,
shall be exempt from the notice and hearing requirements of this article. The
city shall maintain a record of all permits issued for categorically excluded
developments which shall be made available to the commission or any interested
person upon request. This record may be in the form of any record of permits
issued currently maintained by the city, provided that such record includes the
applicant's name, the location of the project, and a brief description of the
project.
17.124.080 Determination of applicable procedures.
   The determination of whether a development is categorically excluded, non-
appealable or appealable for purposes of notice, hearing and appeals procedures
shall be made by the city planner at the time the application for development
in the coastal zone is submitted and received for filing. This determination
shall be made with reference to the certified local coastal program, including
any maps, categorical exclusions, land use designations and zoning ordinances
which are adopted as a part of the local coastal program. Where an applicant,
interested person or the city has a question as to the appropriate designation
for the development, the following procedures shall establish said
determination:
   A.   The city shall make its determination as to what type of development is
being proposed (i.e., categorically excluded, appealable, or non-appealable),
and shall inform the applicant of the notice and hearing requirements for the
particular development.
   B.   If the city's final determination is challenged by the applicant or
interested person within five days of said determination, or if the city wishes
to have the coastal commission make the determination, the city shall notify
the coastal commission by telephone of the dispute/question and shall request
an executive director's opinion.
   C.   The coastal commission executive director shall, within two working
days of the city's request, (or upon completion of a site inspection where such
inspection is warranted), transmit its determination as to whether the
development is categorically excluded, non-appealable or appealable.
   D.   Where, after the coastal commission's executive director's
investigation, the executive director's determination is not in accordance with
the city's determination, the coastal commission shall hold a hearing for
purposes of determining the appropriate designation for the area. The coastal
commission shall schedule the hearing on the determination for the next coastal
commission meeting (in the appropriate geographic region of the state)
following the city's request.
17.124.090 Notice procedures.
   A.   Notice of Appealable Developments. Within ten calendar days of
accepting an application for an appealable coastal development permit or at
least ten calendar days prior to the first public hearing on a development
proposal, the city shall provide notice by first class mail of pending
application for appealable development. This notice shall be provided to each
applicant, to all persons who have requested to be on the mailing list for that
development project or for coastal decisions within the local jurisdiction, to
all property owners and residents within one hundred feet of the perimeter of
the parcel on which the development is proposed and to the coastal commission.
The notice shall contain the following information:
   1.   A statement that the development is within the coastal zone;
   2.   The date of filing of the application and the name of the applicant;
   3.   The number assigned to the application;
   4.   A description of the development and its proposed location;
   5.   The date, time and place at which the application will be heard by the
local governing body or hearing officer;
   6.   A brief description of the general procedure of local government
concerning the conduct of hearing and local actions; and
   7.   The system for local and coastal commission appeals, including any
local fees required.
   B.   Notice of Nonappealable Developments:
   1.   Notice of nonappealable developments which require a public hearing and
which are not categorically excluded: Notice of developments within the coastal
zone that require a public hearings, but which are not appealable pursuant to
Section 11.124.130 herein, (and which an not categorically excluded) shall be
provided in accordance with Section
17.124.090 above.
   C.   Notice of non-appealable developments when no public hearing is
required: Notice of developments within the coastal zone which are appealable
pursuant to Section
17.124.090 herein, and which do not require a public hearing under this
ordinance (and which are not categorically excluded) shall be provided as
follows: Within ten calendar days of accepting an application for a non-
appealable coastal development permit on at least ten calendar days prior to
the city's decision on the application, the city shall provide notice, by
first-class mail, of pending development approval. This notice shall be:
provided to all persons who have requested to be on the mailing list for that
project or, for coastal decisions within the local jurisdiction, to all
property owners and residents within one hundred feet of the perimeter of the
parcel on which the development is proposed, and to the coastal commission. The
notice shall contain the following information:
   1.   A statement that the development is within the coastal zone;
   2.   The date of filing of the application and the name of the applicant;
   3.   The number assigned to the application a description of the development
and its proposed location;
   4.   The date the application will be acted, upon by the local governing
body or decision-maker;
   5.   The general procedure of the local government concerning the submission
of public comments either in writing or orally prior to the local decision; and
   6.   A statement that a public comment period of sufficient time to allow
for the submission of comments by mail will be held prior to the local
decision.
17.124.100 Public hearing procedures.
   At least one public hearing shall be held on each application for an
appealable or non-appealable coastal development permit application for a
project in the R-3, R-4, P-R, R-R, C-R, M-H, C-1, C-2, C- M, OS-1, OS-R, or G
zones, except that no hearing is required for the development of an accessory
dwelling unit consistent with Chapter 17.117 of this code, unless the accessory
dwelling unit is part of a larger project that requires a public hearing or if
a variance is required. At least one public hearing shall be held on each
application for an appealable coastal development permit application for a
project in the R-1 and R-2 zones, except that no hearing is required for the
development of an accessory dwelling unit consistent with Chapter 17.117 of
this code, unless the accessory dwelling unit is part of a larger project that
requires a public hearing or if a variance is required. Non-appealable coastal
developments in the R- 1 and R-2 zones may be processed as administrative
permits at a staff level pursuant to the noticing standards of this chapter for
non-appealable developments. Such hearings shall occur no earlier than ten
calendar days following the mailing of the notices required by this chapter.
The public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with existing city
procedures or in any other manner reasonably calculated to give interested
persons an opportunity to appear and present their viewpoints, either orally or
in writing. (Ord. O-2018-010 § 5, 2018: Ord. 04-02 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2004:
Ord. 03-03 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.124.110 Notice of city action.
   Where a public hearing is continued if a decision on a development permit is
continued by the city to a time which is neither (a) previously stated in the
notice provided pursuant to Section
17.124.090 nor (b) announced at the hearing as being continued to a time
certain, the city shall provide notice of the further hearing (or action on the
proposed development) in he same manner, and within the same time limits as
established in Section 1.124.090.
17.124.130 Appealable developments.
   An action taken by the city on a coastal development permit may be appealed
to the coastal commission for any of the following:
   A.   Developments approved by the city between the sea and the first public
road paralleling the sea or within three hundred feet of the inland extent of
any beach or the mean high tide line of the sea where there is no beach,
whichever is the greater distance;
   B.   Developments approved by the city not included within Section
17.124.130(A) above, located on tidelands, submerged lands, public trust lands
or within one hundred feet of any wetland, estuary or stream;
   C.   Developments approved by the city not included within subsection
17.124.130(B) above, located in a sensitive coastal resource area;
   D.   Any development which constitutes a major public works project or a
major energy facility.
17.124.140 Grounds for appeal.
   A.   The grounds for appeals pursuant to Sections
17.124.130(A) shall be limited to one or more of the following:
   1.   The development fails to provide adequate physical access or public or
private commercial use or interferes with such uses as set forth in the city's
certified local coastal program;
   2.   The development fails to protect public views from any public road or
from a recreational area to, and along, the coast as set forth in the city's
certified local coastal program;
   3.   The development is not compatible with the established physical scale
of the area or is not consistent with the level and scale of development
provided for the area in the city's certified local coastal program;
   4.   The development may significantly and adversely alter existing natural
landforms;
   5.   The development does not comply with shoreline erosion and geologic
setback requirements as established in the city's certified local coastal
program;
   B.   The grounds for appeal for any development reviewed pursuant to
Sections
17.124.130(B), 17.124.130(C) and
17.124.130(D) shall be limited to an allegation that the development does not
conform to the city's certified local coastal program.
17.102.150 Local appeal periods on coastal development permits.
   An action taken by the planning commission on a coastal development permit
shall become final after the tenth working day following said action, unless an
appeal to the city council is received at the public services department or
city clerk's department within that time. At the time of this planning
commission action, a "notice of planning commission action on a coastal
development permit" shall be transmitted to the South Central district office
of the coastal commission by registered mail. This notice shall contain the
information specified and shall be sent to the individuals required as set
forth in Section
17.124.210. This "notice of planning commission action on a coastal development
permit," when received by the coastal commission, shall initiate the coastal
commission's appeal period for appealable developments. In the event that no
local appeal of the planning commission decision is made, the coastal
commission's appeal period shall run until its expiration (ten working days
commencing upon receipt of the city's "notice of planning commission action on
a coastal development permit"). In the event that an appeal of a planning
commission decision is made to the city council, pursuant to the procedures
established in this Title, the coastal commission's appeal period on appealable
developments shall not commence until receipt of the city's "notice of final
local action on a coastal development permit," pursuant to the requirements of
Section
17.124.210 (See Section
17.124.180, Coastal Commission Appeals.).
17.124.160 Appeal hearings on coastal development permits.
   Public hearings on appeals of planning commission determinations pursuant to
Section
17.124.150 shall be held by the city council in accordance with Section
17.121.250 of this Title. A fee or charge for the appeal of an action on a
coastal development permit shall not be required; however, this exemption from
fees or other charges shall not be made for appeals associated with other local
permits in addition to the coastal development permit. The city's decision to
waive coastal development permit fees may make city costs incurred with such
appeals reimbursable as an SB90 claim, state mandated programs. The city shall
request SB90 reimbursement for such costs incurred.
17.124.170 Exhaustion of local appeal procedures.
   A.   Appellant shall be deemed to have exhausted local appeals for purposes
of this chapter and shall be qualified as an aggrieved person pursuant to
Section
17.006.0045 where the appellant has pursued his or her appeal to the city
council as required by the city's appeal procedures, except that exhaustion of
all local appeals shall not be required if any of the following occur:
   1.   The city requires an appellant to appeal to more local appellate bodies
than have been certified as appellate bodies for permits in the coastal zone,
in the implementation section of the local coastal program.
   2.   An appellant was denied the right of the initial local appeal by a
local ordinance other than the implementation procedures of the certified local
coastal program which restricts the class of persons who may appeal a local
decision.
   3.   An appellant was denied the right of local appeal because local notice
and hearing procedures for the development did not comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
   4.   The city charges an appeal fee for the filing or processing of a
coastal development permit appeal. Where a project is appealed by any two
members of the coastal commission, there shall be no requirement of exhaustion
of local appeals, provided, however, that the coastal commission shall transmit
a "notice of commissioners' appeals" to the city council.
   B.   Upon receipt of such notice, the coastal commissioners' appeal may be
suspended by the city council pending a decision on the merits of the appeal by
the council if the decision of the city council is to modify or reverse the
previous decision the coastal commissioners shall be required to file, if
necessary, a new appeal of that decision.
17.124.180 Appeals to the coastal commission.
   Any final appealable action taken by the city on a coastal development
permit may be appealed to the coastal commission pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter. The appeal must contain the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the permit applicant and appellant;
   B.   The date of the local government action;
   C.   A description of the development;
   D.   The name of the governing body having jurisdiction over the project
area;
   E.   The names and addresses of all persons who submitted written comments
or who spoke and left his or her name at any public hearing on the project,
where such information is available;
   F.   The names and addresses of all other persons known by the appellant to
have art interest in the matter on appeal;
   G.   The specific grounds for appeal;
   H.   A statement of facts upon which the appeal is based;
   I.   A summary of the substantial issues raised by the appeal.
   Any appeal of a final city decision on a coastal development permit shall be
made to the coastal commission's South Central district office in person or by
first class mail. The appellant shall also notify the applicant(s), any persons
known to be interested in the application and the city of the filing of the
appeal In addition, the city shall be provided with a copy of the appeal by the
appellant. Notification shall be made by first class mail to said parties.
Unwarranted failure to perform such notification may be grounds for dismissal
of the appeal by the coastal commission. The coastal commission shall notify
the city by mail and by telephone within twenty-four hours of the receipt of
any such appeal.
   The coastal commission's ten working day appeal period shall begin upon the
date of their receipt of the city's "notice of planning commission action on a
coastal development permit" unless an appeal to the city council is made
pursuant to this Title. In the vent that a local appeal of a planning
commission action is made to the city council, the coastal commission's appeal
period for appealable developments shall not commence until their receipt of a
"notice of final local action" is received pursuant to Section
17.124.210.
17.124.190 Effect of appeal.
   Upon receipt in the coastal commission office of an appeal by a qualified
appellant, the executive director of the commission shall notify the permit
applicant and the city that the operation and effect of the local coastal
development permit has been stayed pending coastal commission action on the
appeal by the coastal commission as required by Public Resources Code Section
30623(b). Upon receipt of a notice of appeal the city shall refrain from
issuing a development permit for the proposed development and shall, within
five working days, deliver to the executive director of the commission all
relevant documents and materials used by the local government in its
consideration of the coastal development permit application. If the coastal
commission fails to receive the documents and materials, the commission shall
set the matter for hearing and the hearing shall be left open until all
relevant materials are received.
17.124.200 Coastal commission notification of final action.
   Within ten working days of a final coastal commission action on an appeal
from a city decision, the coastal commission shall transmit notice of the
action taken to the city, the applicant and the appellant.
17.124.210 Final local government action—Notice.
   A.   Notice after Final City Decision: (This section shall not apply to
categorically excluded development). Within seven calendar days of a final city
decision on an application for any coastal development permit, the city shall
provide notice of its action by first class mail to the coastal commission's
South Central Coast district office, and to any persons who specifically
requested notice of such final action by submitting a self-addressed, stamped
envelope to the city and a reasonable fee to process such notice. Such notice
shall include conditions of approval and written findings and the procedures
for appeal of the local decision to the coastal commission.
   B.   Failure to Act--Notice.
   1.   Notification by Applicant. If the city has failed to act on an
application within the time limits set forth, in Government Code Sections 65950
through 65957.1, thereby approving the development by operation of law, the
person claiming a right to proceed pursuant to Government Code Sections 65950
through 65957.1 shall notify, in writing, the city and the coastal commission
of his or her claim that the development has been approved by operation of law.
Such notice shall specify the application which is claimed to be approved.
   2.   Notification by city when the city determines that the time limits
established pursuant to Government Code Sections 65950 through 65957.1 have
expired, the city shall, within seven calendar days of such determination,
notify any person entitled to receive notice pursuant to Section 12.124.210.1
that it has taken final action by operation of law pursuant to Government Code
Sections 65950 through 65957.1. The appeal period for appealable developments
approved by operation of law shall begin to run only upon the receipt of said
notice in the coastal commission's South Central Coast district office. (This
section shall apply equally to a local government determination that the
project has been approved by operation of law and to a judicial determination
that the project has been approved by operation of law.)
17.124.220 Finality of local government action.
   A city decision on an application for a coastal development permit shall be
deemed final when (1) the city decision on the application has been made and
all required findings have been adopted, including specific factual findings
supporting the legal conclusions that the proposed development is or is not in
conformity with the city's certified local coastal program and, where
applicable, with the public access and recreation policies of Chapter 3 of the
Coastal Act, and (2) when all local rights of appeal have been exhausted
pursuant to this Article.
17.124.230 Local government action—Effective date.
   The city's final decision on an application for an appealable development
shall become effective after then ten working day appeal period to the coastal
commission has expired or after the twenty-first calendar day following the
final city action unless any of the following occur:
   A.   An appeal is filed in accordance with Section
17.124.180.
   B.   The notice of final city action does not meet the requirements of
Section
17.124.210
   C.   The notice of final local government action is not received in the
coastal commission's South Central Coast Regional office and/or distributed to
interested parties in time to allow for the ten working day appeal period
within the twenty-one days after the local decision.
   Where any of the circumstances in subsections (A) through (C) above occur,
the coastal commission shall, within five calendar days of receiving notice of
that circumstance, notify the city and the applicant that the effective date of
the city action has been suspended.
Chapter 17.127 AMENDMENTS
17.127.010 Procedure.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any amendment to this Title
shall be initiated and adopted as other ordinances are amended or adopted.
17.127.020 Types or changes.
   Any amendment to this ordinance which changes any property from one district
to another district, or imposes any regulation upon property not theretofore
imposed, or removes or modifies any such regulation, shall be initiated and
adopted as hereinafter set forth in this chapter.
17.127.030 Initiation of an amendment.
   Any amendment of the nature specified herein may be initiated by (1) the
filing with the city planning commission of a resolution of intention of the
city council of the city of Pismo Beach; (2) passage of a resolution of
intention by the planning commission; or (3) filing with the planning
commission of a petition or application of the record owners of property which
is the subject of the proposed amendment or their authorized agents. A petition
for amendment shall be on a form designated therefore by the planning
commission and shall be accompanied by a fee, as set by the city council.
17.127.040 Time required.
   Upon receipt of a petition or application or resolution of intention of
amendment, the planning commission shall set a date for a public hearing
thereon, but not later than prescribed by law.
17.127.050 Notice of public hearing.
   Notice of public hearing shall be given as required by law. Additional
notice of the time and place of such hearing and the purpose thereof shall be
given by posting at least three public notices thereof not less than ten days
prior to such hearing along the streets upon which the property proposed to be
affected abuts. Each such notice shall consist of the words "notice of proposed
zoning change" in letters not less than one inch in height, and in addition
thereto, a statement in small letters setting forth a general description of
the property proposed to be affected, the time and place of the public hearing
thereon and such other information as the planning commission deems to be
necessary. Any failure to post public notices as aforesaid shall not invalidate
any proceedings for the amendment to this zoning ordinance. In addition to the
notice required by Government Code Section 65854, notice shall be given by mail
or delivery to all persons including businesses, corporations or other public
or private entities shown on the last equalized assessment roll as owning real
property within three hundred feet of the property which is the subject of the
proposed zoning change.
   In the event that the proposed zoning change has been requested by a person
other than the property owner as such property owner is shown on the last
equalized assessment roll, the planning commission shall also give mailed
notice to the owner of the property as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll.
   In the event that the number of owners to whom notice would be sent pursuant
to the standards above is greater than one thousand persons, notice may be
given at least ten days prior to the hearing by either of the following
procedures: (1) by placing a display advertisement of at least one-quarter page
in the newspaper having the greatest circulation within the area affected by
the proposed ordinance or amendment and in at least one additional newspaper
having general circulation within such area, if such additional newspaper is
available; or (2) by placing an insert with any generalized mailing sent by the
city to property owners in the area affected by the proposed ordinance or
amendment, such as billings for city services.
   Such advertisement or mailing insert shall specify the type and magnitude of
the changes proposed, the place where copies of the proposed changes may be
obtained, the time, date and place of the hearing, and the right to appear and
be heard.
17.127.060 Commission report.
   After the close of the public hearing or continuations thereof, the planning
commission shall make a written report of its findings and its recommendations
with respect to the proposed amendment. The commission report shall include a
list of persons who testified at the hearing, a summary of the facts introduced
at the hearing, the findings of the commission, and copies of any maps or other
data and/or documentary evidence submitted in connection with the proposed
amendment. Copy of such report and recommendation shall be transmitted to the
city council within ninety days after the first notice of hearing thereof;
provided, however, that such time may be extended with the consent of the city
council or the petitioner for such amendment. In the event the planning
commission fails to report to the city council within the aforesaid ninety days
or within the agreed extension of time, the amendment shall be deemed approved
by the planning commission.
17.127.070 Amendments to the local coastal program.
   A certified local coastal program or any portion (land use plan or
implementing ordinances) may be amended by the planning commission and city
council, but no such amendment local coastal program land use designations or
development standards within any portion of the coastal zone shall take effect
until said amendment has been certified by the California Coastal Commission,
pursuant to PRC Section 30514.
17.127.080 Amendment procedures for the local coastal program.
   A.   Local Government Resolution.
   1.   An amendment to a certified local coastal program shall be accepted for
filing by the commission if the amendment is submitted pursuant to a resolution
adopted in accordance with the provisions of Public Resources Code Section
30510(a) or is proposed pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 30515.
   2.   A local government may submit a proposed amendment either (1) as an
amendment that will take effect automatically upon coastal commission approval
pursuant to Public Resources Code Sections 30512, 30513 and 30519, or (2) as an
amendment that will require formal city adoption after coastal commission
approval. Under either of the alternative procedures, the requirements of the
Coastal Commission's Administrative Regulations of 1982, Chapter 8, Sections
13544, 13544.5 or 13547 must be fulfilled following coastal commission approval
of the amendment. For purposes of this action, certified local coastal program
includes the certified land use plan or any portion thereof.
   B.   Contents of Local Coastal Program Amendment Submittal.
   1.   A summary of the measure taken to provide the public and affected
agencies and districts maximum opportunity to participate in the local coastal
program amendment process, pursuant to Section 13515 and Public Resources Code,
Section 30503; a listing of members of the public, organizations, and agencies
appearing at any hearing or contacted for comment on the local coastal program
amendment; and copies or summaries of significant comments received and of the
city's response to the comments;
   2.   All policies, plans, standards, objectives, diagrams, drawings, maps,
photographs, and supplementary data, related to the amendment in sufficient
detail to allow review for conformity with the requirements of the Coastal Act.
Written documents should be readily reproducible. An amendment to a land use
plan shall include, where applicable, a readily identifiable public access
component as set forth in the Coastal Commission's Administrative Regulations
of 1982, Chapter 8, Section 13512.
   3.   A discussion of the amendment's relationship to an effect on the other
sections of the certified local coastal program.
   4.   An analysis that meets the requirements of Section 13511 or an approved
alternative pursuant to the Coastal Commission's Administrative Regulations of
1982, Chapter 8, Section 13514, and that demonstrates conformity with the
requirements of Chapter 6 of the Coastal Act.
   5.   Any environmental review documents, pursuant to CEQA, required for all
or any portion of the amendment to the local coastal program.
   6.   An indication of the zoning measures that will be used to carry out the
amendment to the land use plan (unless submitted at the same time as the
amendment to the land use plan).
   C.   Review of Filing. An amendment to a certified local coastal program
together with all necessary attachments and exhibits shall be deemed
"submitted" after having been received and found by the executive director of
the coastal commission to be in proper order and legally adequate to comply
with Public Resources Code, Section 30510(b). Said review shall be completed
within a reasonable time, but unless there are unusual circumstances, no later
than ten working days after the date it is received in the coastal commission's
South Central Regional office during normal working hours. The executive
director shall cause a date of receipt stamp to be affixed to all local coastal
program submissions on the day they are received and a stamp of the date of
submittal on the day they are found to be properly submitted. If the executive
director determines that the materials received are not sufficient to satisfy
the requirements of Public Resources Code Section 30510(b), the executive
director shall transmit to the city specific written comments regarding the
inadequacy of the submission no later than the aforementioned ten working days.
Any disagreement between the executive director and the city as to information
requirements may be resolved by the coastal commission. If the amendment to the
local coastal program is found to be properly submitted, the executive director
shall immediately notify the city that submitted the local coastal program
amendment.
   D.   Minor Amendment--Definition. Pursuant to Public Resources Code,
Section, 30514(c) and for the purposes of this Section, a minor amendment to a
local coastal program includes but is not limited to the following:
   1.   Changes in wording which make the use as designated in the zoning
ordinance, zoning district map or other implementing actions more specific and
which do not change the kind, location, intensity, or density of use and which
are found by the executive director of the coastal commission or the coastal
commission to be consistent with the land use plan as certified by the coastal
commission.
   2.   For annexed or detached areas, certification of zoning ordinance,
zoning district map or other implementing actions where either:
   a.   The certified land use plan and zoning designations of the city and
county jurisdictions for the geographic area are equivalent; or
   b.   The commission has certified proposed pre-annexation zoning for the
annexing jurisdiction.
   3.   Change in the notification and hearing procedures that is consistent
with the requirements of the Coastal Act.
   4.   For Land Use Plans:
   a.   Revisions or deletion of housing policies certified pursuant to Public
Resources Code, Section 30213 prior to January 1, 1982.
   b.   Correction, reorganization, revisions, or deletion of certified
language which when taken together does not change the kind, location,
intensity or density of use or modify the resource protection measures for any
area or property.
   c.   Additions or revisions to certified policies which impose further
conditions, restriction or limitations on any use which might adversely affect
the resources of the coastal zone, if those amendments do not conflict with any
policy of Chapter 3 of the Coastal Act or with any other certified land use
plan policy.
   5.   Changes in the kinds, location, intensity or density of uses covering
areas specifically certified by the commission as acceptable alternative land
uses that become effective upon the occurrence of specific events authorized in
a certified local coastal program, such as annexations or the availability of
water or sewer services.
   E.   Designation of Amendment as Minor:
   1.   The executive director of the coastal commission or the coastal
commission may determine whether or not a proposed amendment is minor in
nature. If the executive director determines the proposed amendment is minor,
notice of such determination including a summary of procedures set forth in
this article shall be mailed to all parties the executive director has reason
to know may be interested in the amendment to the local coastal program. The
executive director shall report in writing to the coastal commission at the
next meeting, his or her determination and objections to the determination, if
any, that have been received within ten working days of the posting of notice.
The report shall include sufficient description of the proposed amendment to
allow the commission to understand the proposal. If one-third of the appointed
members of the coastal commission requests, the determination of minor
amendment shall not become effective and the amendment shall be processed in
accordance with Subsection (2) below. Proposed amendments that are designated
as minor amendments by the executive director with concurrence by the coastal
commission or by the coastal commission shall take effect upon completion of
the requirements of the Coastal Commission's Administrative Regulations of
1982, Chapter 8, Section 13547.
   2.   If the executive director of the coastal commission determine that the
proposed amendment is not minor, the application shall be processed by the
coastal commission after notice to all parties the executive director has
reason to know may be interested in the matter.
Chapter 17.130 INTERPRETATION
17.130.010 Compatibility with existing regulations.
   Except as specifically provided herein, this Title shall not be interpreted
to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way affect any other existing provision of
any law or ordinance or regulations or permits previously adopted or issued
relating to the erection, construction, moving, alteration or enlargement of
any building or improvement; provided, however, in any instances where this
ordinance imposes greater restrictions upon the erection, construction,
establishment, moving, alteration or improvement of buildings or the use of any
building or structure than is imposed or required by any existing law,
ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this ordinance shall control. A fee
may be required.
17.130.020 District compatibility.
   Whenever the planning commission of the city of Pismo beach is called upon
to determine whether or not the use of land or any structure in any district is
similar in character to the particular uses allowed in the district, the
commission shall consider the following factors as criteria for their
determination.
   A.   The degree of similarity with permitted uses;
   B.   Effect upon the public health, safety and general welfare of the
neighborhood involved and the City at large;
   C.   Effect upon traffic conditions; and
   D.   Effect upon the orderly development of the area in question, and the
city at large in regard to the general planning of the whole community.
17.130.030 Interpretation appeal.
   The planning commission, after holding a noticed public hearing, shall have
the power to hear and decide appeals based on the enforcement or interpretation
of the provisions of this Title.
17.130.040 Case appeals.
   In case the applicant is not satisfied with the planning commission action
on his appeal, he may within ten business days appeal in writing to the city
council. An appeal will not be considered unless accompanied by a fee or other
appropriate method as established by the city council.
17.130.050 Planning commission procedure.
   Notice shall be given to the planning commission of such appeal, and a
report shall be submitted by the commission to the city council, setting forth
the reasons for the action taken by the commission. Such report shall be
submitted in writing or by representation at the hearing.
17.130.060 City council decision.
   The city council shall render its decision within forty-five days after
filing such appeal.
Chapter 17.133 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE AND PENALTIES
17.133.010 Building permits and business licenses.
   All departments, officials and public employees of the city of Pismo Beach
which are vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall
conform to the provisions of this Title and shall issue no such permit or
license for uses, building, or purpose where the same would be in conflict with
the provisions of this Title, and any such permit or license, if issued in
conflict with the provisions of this Title, shall be null and void.
17.133.020 Building official duty.
   It shall be the duty of the building office of the city of Pismo Beach to
enforce the provisions of this Title, pertaining to the use of land or
buildings and the erection, construction, reconstruction, moving, alteration or
addition to any building, buildings or structures. During non-office hours, it
will be the responsibility of the police department to monitor and enforce the
provisions of this Title.
17.133.030 Procedures for abatement.
   Any building or structure erected, constructed, altered, converted, moved or
maintained contrary to the provisions of this Title and any use of land or
buildings operated or maintained contrary to the provisions of this Title are
hereby declared to be public nuisances. The city attorney, upon order of the
city council shall commence the necessary action or proceedings for the
abatement, removal and enjoinment thereof in the manner prescribed by law in
the courts which may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will accomplish
such abatement and restraint. The remedies provided for in this section shall
be in addition to any other remedy or remedies or penalties provided in this
Title or any other law or ordinance.
17.133.040 Penalty.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether acting as principal, agent or
otherwise, to violate or cause to be violated any provision or to fail to
comply with any of the requirements of the Pismo Beach Zoning Ordinance
(Article 17 of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code, as amended). A violation of any
of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements
of the Zoning Ordinance shall constitute an infraction notwithstanding any
other provision of the Zoning Ordinance, except that any such violation
constituting an infraction under the Zoning Ordinance may, in the discretion of
the city attorney, be charged and prosecuted as a misdemeanor. Any conviction
for a violation of the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, shall be punishable
as set forth in Chapter 1.20 of this code. (Ord. 96-12 § 2, 1996)
17.133.050 Nuisance and civil penalties.
   Any cultivation, processing or distribution of marijuana which takes place
in violation of any provision of this chapter is unlawful, and is hereby
declared a public nuisance and is subject to administrative penalties pursuant
to
chapter 1.24, in addition to any other remedies available to the city. (Ord. O-
2016-003 § 2, 2016)
17.133.060 Full compliance requirement.
   No application required pursuant to this title shall be accepted for
processing or approved where the property owner has on the subject property or
any other property owned by the property owner within the city, an existing
land use, not previously authorized by any statute or ordinance, which is being
maintained or operated in violation of any applicable provision of this code,
or any condition of approval of a land use permit under this title. This
provision applies to the operation of land uses only, and does not affect
buildings or structures which do not conform to development standards.
   Where the community development director, at his/her sole discretion, and
whose determination shall be final, determines that the use in question is
consistent with the objectives, goals and policies of the general plan, or that
the continuation of said use is essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare, this section shall not apply to an application
submitted pursuant to this title. (Ord. O-2016-006 § 1 (part), 2016)
Chapter 17.136 ZONING MAP
17.136.010 Incorporation of the zoning map.
   The zoning map referred to in Chapter 17.145, the original of which is on
file in the office of the city clerk and duplicate originals of which are on
file in the public services department and certified as being the map adopted
herein, and which map is entitled "Zoning Map--City of Pismo Beach" is
incorporated herein by reference and the designation, locations, and boundaries
of the districts are therein set forth, subject to the provisions of Chapter
17.009 hereof. All, territory within the limits of the city of Pismo Beach is
hereby classified into the districts as set forth on said map. No person shall
use any land, building, or structure, nor shall any building or structure be
erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, moved or used in any district shown on
said zoning map, except in accordance with the regulations established by this
Title.
Title 17 1998 ZONING CODE
Article I ZONING CODE ENACTMENT AND APPLICABILITY
Chapter 17.01 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF ZONING CODE
17.01.010 Title.
   Title 17 of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code is and may be cited as the Pismo
Beach Zoning Code, hereafter referred to as "this Zoning Code."
17.01.020 Purpose of zoning code.
   This Zoning Code carries out the policies of the city of Pismo Beach general
plan and local coastal program by classifying and regulating the uses of land
and structures within the city of Pismo Beach. This Zoning Code is adopted to
protect and to promote the public health, safety, comfort, convenience,
prosperity, and general welfare of residents, and businesses in the city. More
specifically, the purposes of this Zoning Code are to:
   A.   Implement the general plan by encouraging the uses of land designated
by the general plan and local coastal program (LCP);
   B.   Provide standards for the orderly growth and development of the city
that will assist in protecting the coastal characteristics of Pismo Beach,
including public access and views, and recreational opportunities along the
coast;
   C.   Conserve and protect the city's natural beauty including, coastal
views, hillside open space, scenic highways, and historic and environmental
resources;
   D.   Create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses upon which to
plan transportation, water supply, sewerage and other public facilities and
utilities;
   E.   Minimize automobile congestion by promoting pedestrian oriented
development, safe and effective traffic circulation, and adequate off-street
parking facilities; and
   F.   Ensure compatibility between residential and commercial development and
land uses.
17.01.030 Authority, relationship to general plan.
   A.   This Zoning Code is enacted based on the authority vested in the city
of Pismo Beach by the State of California, including but not limited to: the
State Constitution; the Planning and Zoning Law (Government Code Sections 65000
et seq.); the California Coastal Act (Public Resources Code Sections 30000 et
seq.); the Subdivision Map Act (Government Code Sections 66410 et seq.);
California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code Sections 21000 et
seq.); and the California Health and Safety Code.
   B.   This Zoning Code is the primary tool used by the city of Pismo Beach to
carry out the goals, objectives, and policies of the Pismo Beach general plan
and local coastal plan. The Pismo Beach city council intends that this Zoning
Code be consistent with the Pismo Beach general plan, and that any land use,
subdivision, or development approved in compliance with this Zoning Code will
also be consistent with the Pismo Beach general plan and local coastal plan.
17.01.040 Local coastal program provisions.
   All provisions of this Zoning Code and the zoning map (Section
17.06.030) constitute the city's ordinances for the implementation of the Pismo
Beach local coastal program, in compliance with the Coastal Act, except that
the following chapters and sections of this Zoning Code are not part of the
local coastal program:
17.01.050 Applicability of Zoning Code
17.01.060 Responsibility for administration
17.01.070 Partial Invalidation of the Zoning Code
17.02     Interpretation of Code Provisions, except for
          17.02.020.D.1
          Land Use Permit Requirements, except for
17.03     17.03.020.B.2 and
          17.03.030.A.2, A.3, and A.5.
17.08.030 Table 2-4--Specific Plan Area Residential Development Standards for
          Pacific Estates, Pismo Oaks and Toucan Terrace
17.10     Residential District Design Standards
17.12.050 CD district site plan and land use standards
      A. Levi-Benson property (APN 5-201-17)
      E. Requirements for Pedestrian Plazas
      F. Accessory structures
      H. Maintenance of Vacant parcels
17.12.060 CD Building Design Standards
17.14     Commercial Design Standards
17.18.050 Noise Overlay District
      Noise Overlay District Map
17.22     Setback requirements and exceptions
17.24.040 Contiguous Parcel Development
17.24.080 Hazardous Materials
17.24.090 Noise
17.24.110 Radioactivity or Electric Disturbance
17.26     Affordable Housing Incentives
17.30     Landscaping
17.34     Parking and Loading, except Table 3-2
17.38.030 Adult Entertainment Establishments
17.38.050 Child Day Care Facilities
17.38.070 Home Occupations
17.40     Applications, Filing and Processing
17.48     Development Agreements
17.52     Nonconforming Uses, Structures, and Parcels
17.60     Enforcement of Zoning Code Provisions
  
17.01.050 Applicability of the zoning code.
   This Zoning Code applies to all land uses, subdivisions, and development
within the city of Pismo Beach, as provided by this section.
   A.   New land uses or structures, changes to land uses or structures. It
shall be unlawful, and a violation of this Zoning Code, for any person to
establish, construct, reconstruct, alter, or replace any use of land or
structure, except in compliance with the requirements of Section
17.03.020 (Requirements for Development and New Land Uses), and
Chapter 17.52 (Nonconforming Uses, Structures and Parcels).
   B.   Issuance of Building or Grading Permits. Building or grading permits
may be issued by the department only when the proposed land use and/or
structure satisfy the requirements of Subsection A above, when the director of
public services determines that the site was subdivided in compliance with all
applicable requirements of Title 16 (Subdivisions) of the Municipal Code, and
when proposed grading is in compliance with all applicable requirements of
Title 18 (Grading and Erosion Control Ordinance) of the Municipal Code.
   C.   Subdivision of Land. Any subdivision of land proposed within the city
of Pismo Beach after the effective date of this Zoning Code shall comply with
the minimum lot size requirements of Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable
Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards), all other applicable requirements of
this Zoning Code, and the subdivision requirements of Title 16 (Subdivisions)
of the Municipal Code.
   D.   Continuation of an Existing Land Use. An existing land use is lawful
and not in violation of the Pismo Beach Zoning Code only when operated and
maintained in compliance with all applicable provisions of this Zoning Code or,
where applicable,
Chapter 17.52 (Nonconforming Uses, Structures, and Parcels). However, the
requirements of this Zoning Code are not retroactive in their effect on a land
use that was lawfully established before the effective date of this Zoning Code
or any applicable amendment.
   E.   Effect of Zoning Code Changes on Projects in Progress. The enactment of
this Zoning Code or amendments to its requirements may impose different
standards on new land uses than those that applied to existing development.
(For example, this Zoning Code or a future amendment could require more off-
street parking spaces for a particular land use than former Zoning Code
provisions.) The following provisions determine how the requirements of this
Zoning Code apply to projects in progress at the time requirements are changed.
   1.   Projects with Pending Applications. All land use permit applications
that have been determined by the department to be complete before the effective
date of this Zoning Code or any amendment, will be processed according to the
requirements in effect when the application was accepted as complete.
Applications for land use permit extensions of time (see Section
17.44.050) shall be consistent with the requirements of this Zoning Code that
are in effect when the time extension application is accepted as complete.
   2.   Approved Projects Not Yet Under Construction. Any approved development
for which construction has not begun as of the effective date of this Zoning
Code or amendment, may still be constructed as approved, as long as required
building permits have been obtained before the expiration of any applicable
land use permit (Section
17.44.050, Time Limits and Extensions) or, where applicable, before the
expiration of any approved time extension granted under Section
17.44.050.
   3.   Approved Projects Not Requiring Construction. Any approved land use not
requiring construction that has not been established as of the effective date
of this Zoning Code or amendment, may still be established in compliance with
its approved permit, as long as establishment occurs before the expiration of
the permit (Section
17.44.050, Time Limits and Extensions) or, where applicable, before the
expiration of any approved time extension granted under Section
17.44.050.
   4.   Projects Under Construction. A structure that is under construction on
the effective date of this Zoning Code or any amendment, need not be changed to
satisfy any new or different requirements of this Zoning Code.
   F.   Other Requirements May Still Apply. Nothing in this Zoning Code
eliminates the need for obtaining any other permits required by the city, or
any permit or approval required by other provisions of the Municipal Code or
the regulations of any city department, or any county, regional, State, or
Federal agency.
   G.   Conflicting Permits and Licenses to be Void. All permits or licenses
shall be issued by the city in compliance with the provisions of this Zoning
Code, after the effective date of this Zoning Code or any applicable amendment.
Any permit or license issued in conflict with this Zoning Code shall be void.
17.01.060 Responsibility for administration.
   This Zoning Code shall be administered by the Pismo Beach city council,
planning commission, director of public services, and the Pismo Beach public
services department, as provided in
Chapter 17.50 (Administrative Responsibility).
17.01.070 Partial invalidation of zoning code.
   If any portion of this Zoning Code is held to be invalid, unconstitutional
or unenforceable for any reason, these decisions shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Zoning Code. The Pismo Beach city council
hereby declares that this Zoning Code and each article, chapter, section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase and portion
thereof would have been adopted without regard to the fact that one or more
portions of this Zoning Code may be declared invalid, unconstitutional or
unenforceable.
Chapter 17.02 INTERPRETATION OF CODE PROVISIONS
17.02.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides rules for resolving questions about the meaning or
applicability of any part of this Zoning Code. The provisions of this chapter
are intended to ensure the consistent interpretation and application of the
provisions of this Zoning Code and the general plan/local coastal program.
17.02.020 Rules of interpretation.
   A.   Authority. The director of public services is assigned the
responsibility and authority to interpret the requirements of this Zoning Code.
   B.   Language.
   1.   Abbreviations. For the purpose of brevity, the following phrases,
personnel and document titles are shortened hereafter in this Zoning Code. The
city of Pismo Beach is referred to hereafter as the "city." The city of Pismo
Beach Zoning Code is referred to hereafter as "this Zoning Code." The director
of public services is referred to hereafter as "director," the city council is
referred to as the "council," the planning commission is referred to as the
"commission." "Buildings and structures" are referred to hereafter as
"structures."
   2.   Terminology. When used in this Zoning Code, the words "shall," "must,"
"will," "is to," and "are to" are always mandatory. "Should" is not mandatory
but is strongly recommended; and "may" is permissive. The present tense
includes the past and future tenses; and the future tense includes the present.
The singular number includes the plural number, and the plural the singular,
unless the natural construction of the word indicates otherwise. The words
"includes" and "including" shall mean "including but not limited to . . .".
   3.   Number of Days. Whenever a number of days is specified in this Zoning
Code, or in any permit, condition of approval, or notice issued or given as
provided in this Zoning Code, the number of days shall be construed as calendar
days. Time limits will extend to the next working day where the last of the
specified number of days falls on a weekend or holiday.
   4.   State Law Requirements. Where this Development Code references
applicable provisions of State law (for example, the California Government
Code, Subdivision Map Act, Public Resources Code, etc.), the reference shall be
construed to be to the applicable State law provisions as they may be amended
from time to time.
   5.   Titles and Headings. The titles of the sections, subsections, figures,
and tables in this Zoning Code are provided for convenience and general
information only, and shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any
manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any chapter,
section, subsection, figure, or table hereof.
   C.   Zoning Map Boundaries. If there is uncertainty about the location of
any zoning district boundary shown on the official zoning map, the following
rules are to be used in resolving the uncertainty:
   1.   Where district boundaries approximately follow lot, alley, or street
lines, the lot lines and street and alley centerlines shall be construed as the
district boundaries;
   2.   If a district boundary divides a parcel and the boundary line location
is not specified by instructions printed on the zoning map, the location of the
boundary will be determined by using the scale appearing on the zoning map; and
   3.   Where a public street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the
property that was formerly in the street or alley will be included within the
zoning district of the adjoining property on either side of the centerline of
the vacated or abandoned street or alley.
   D.   Allowable uses of land. If a proposed use of land is not specifically
listed in Sections
17.08.030 (Residential District Land Uses and Permit Requirements),
17.12.030 (Commercial District Land Uses and Permit Requirements), or
17.16.030 (Special Purpose District Land Uses and Permit Requirements), the use
shall not be allowed, except as follows.
   1.   Similar Uses Allowed. The director may determine that a proposed use
not listed in Article II is allowable for the purposes of accepting an
application for processing, and the review authority may approve an application
for an unlisted use, if all of the following findings are made:
   a.   The characteristics of, and activities associated with, the proposed
use are equivalent to those of one or more of the uses listed in the zoning
district as allowable, and will not involve a higher level of activity or
population density than the uses listed in the district;
   b.   The proposed use will meet the purpose/intent of the zoning district
that is applied to the site; and
   c.   The proposed use will be consistent with the goals, objectives and
policies of the general plan/local coastal program and any specific plan.
   2.   Applicable Standards and Permit Requirements. When the director
determines that a proposed, but unlisted, use is equivalent to a listed use,
the proposed use will be treated in the same manner as the listed use in
determining where it is allowed, what permits are required and what other
standards and requirements of this Zoning Code apply.
   3.   Commission Determination. The director may forward questions about
equivalent uses directly to the commission for a determination at a public
meeting (a public hearing is not required).
   E.   Minimum Requirements. When interpreting and applying the regulations of
this Zoning Code, all provisions shall be considered to be minimum
requirements, unless stated otherwise (e.g., height limits and site coverage
requirements for structures, and the numbers and size of signs allowed are
maximums, not minimums).
   F.   Conflicting Requirements:
   1.   Zoning Code and Other Municipal Code provisions. If conflicts occur
between different requirements of this Zoning Code, or between this Zoning Code
and other Municipal Code provisions, the most restrictive shall apply.
   2.   Specific Plans. If conflicts occur between the requirements of this
Zoning Code and standards adopted as part of any specific plan, the
requirements of the specific plan shall apply.
   3.   Private Agreements. This Zoning Code applies to all land uses and
development regardless of whether it imposes a greater or lesser restriction on
the development or use of structures or land than a private agreement or
restriction, without affecting the applicability of any agreement or
restriction. The city shall not enforce any private covenant or agreement (for
example, deed restrictions, CC&Rs, and other similar instruments).
17.02.030 Procedures for interpretations.
   Whenever the director determines that the meaning or applicability of any of
the requirements of this Zoning Code are subject to interpretation as applied
to a specific case, the director may issue an official interpretation.
Interpretations may also be requested in compliance with this section.
   A.   Request for interpretation. A request shall be written, specifically
state the provision(s) in question, and provide any information to assist in
their review.
   B.   Record of Interpretations. The director will maintain a complete record
of all official interpretations, available for public review, and indexed by
the number of the section that is the subject of the interpretation. Official
interpretations shall be:
   1.   In writing, and shall quote the provisions of this Zoning Code being
interpreted, and explain their meaning or applicability in the particular
circumstances that caused the need for interpretation;
   2.   Distributed to the council, commission, city attorney, city clerk, and
department staff; and
   3.   Maintained in all copies of the Zoning Code used by the department.
   C.   Appeals and referral. Any interpretations of this Zoning Code by the
director may be appealed to the commission as provided by
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals). The director may also refer any interpretation to the
commission for a determination.
Chapter 17.03 LAND USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
17.03.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter describes the general requirements of this Zoning Code for the
approval of proposed development and new land uses by the city. Land use permit
requirements for specific land uses are instead established by Articles II
(Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards) and III
(Site Planning and General Development Standards).
17.03.020 Requirements for development and new land uses.
   No use of land or structures shall be established, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, allowed or replaced unless the use of land or
structures complies with the following requirements.
   A.   Allowable Use. The land use shall be identified by
Chapters 17.08 (Residential Zoning Districts),
17.12 (Commercial Districts), or
17.16 (Special Purpose Districts) as being allowable in the zoning district
applied to the site. The director may determine whether a particular land use
is allowable, in compliance with Section
17.02.020(D) (Rules of Interpretation--Allowable Uses of Land).
   B.   Land Use and Coastal Development Permit Requirements.
   1.   Land Use Permit. Any land use permit or other approval required by this
Zoning Code shall be obtained before the proposed use is constructed, otherwise
established or put into operation, unless the proposed use is listed in Section
17.03.030 (Exemptions from Land Use Permit Requirements). The land use permit
requirements of this Zoning Code are established by Chapters
17.08 (Residential Zoning Districts),
17.12 (Commercial Districts), or
17.16 (Special Purpose Districts).
   2.   Coastal Development Permit. Approval of a land use permit in compliance
with this Zoning Code shall also constitute approval of a coastal development
permit in compliance with the certified Pismo Beach local coastal program and
the California Coastal Act.
   C.   Development Standards. The use and/or structures shall comply with all
other applicable requirements of this Zoning Code, including the development
standards of Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone
Specific Standards), and the provisions of Article III (Site Planning and
General Development Standards).
   D.   Conditions of Approval. The use and/or structures shall comply with any
applicable conditions imposed by any previously granted land use permit.
   E.   Legal Parcel. The use of land and/or structure shall only be
established on a parcel of land which has been legally created in compliance
with the Subdivision Map Act and Title 16 (Subdivisions) of the Municipal Code,
as applicable at the time the parcel was created.
   F.   Development Agreements. The use and/or structures shall comply with all
applicable development agreement approved by the city in compliance with
Chapter 17.48 (Development Agreements).
17.03.030 Exemptions from land use permit requirements.
   The land use permit requirements of this Zoning Code do not apply to the
activities, and/or structures identified by this section, which are allowed in
all zoning districts subject to compliance with this section.
   A.   Exempt Activities and Uses. The following activities, uses of land and/
or structures are exempt from the land use permit requirements of this Zoning
Code when in compliance with subsection (B) below, provided that a zoning
clearance (Section
17.42.020) is required whenever a building permit is required for any of these
activities or uses.
   1.   City Government Activities. Activities, uses of land and/or structures
established and/or constructed by the city of Pismo Beach, except where a
coastal development permit is required.
   2.   Decks, Paths and Driveways. Decks, platforms, on-site paths, and
driveways that are:
   a.   Not required to have a building permit by Title 15 (Buildings and
Construction) of the Municipal Code, or a grading permit by Title 18 (Grading
and Erosion Control Ordinance) of the Municipal Code;
   b.   Not over thirty inches above natural grade and not over any basement or
story below; and
   c.   Unenclosed except for a safety railing with a maximum height of forty-
two inches.
   3.   Fences--Residential Zoning Districts. Fences in the residential zoning
districts are exempt from land use permit requirements as provided by Section
17.24.060 (Fences, Walls, and Hedges).
   4.   Interior Remodeling. Interior alterations that do not increase the
gross floor area within the structure, or change the permitted use of the
structure.
   5.   Portable Spas, Hot Tubs, and Fish Ponds. Portable spas, hot tubs, and
fish ponds, and similar structures, that do not: exceed one hundred twenty
square feet in total area including related equipment; contain more than two
thousand gallons of water; or exceed three feet in depth, and are outside
required setbacks, including blufftop setbacks specified in the local coastal
program. These facilities shall require zoning clearance (Section
17.42.020), and shall comply with the side and rear setback requirements
established by Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-
Specific Standards) for the applicable zoning district, or Section
17.38.150 (Residential Accessory Uses and Structures), where applicable.
   6.   Repairs and Maintenance. Ordinary repairs and maintenance, if:
   a.   The work does not change the approved land use of the site or
structure, or add to, enlarge or expand the area occupied by the land use, or
the floor area of the structure;
   b.   Any exterior repairs employ the same materials and design as the
original construction; and
   c.   The structure is not a public or private stairway providing beach
access. These structures are instead subject to the requirements of
Chapter 17.32 (Ocean Fronting Development).
   7.   Small Residential Accessory Structures (Portable). A single portable
structure per lot or unit, including premanufactured storage sheds and other
small structures in residential zoning districts that:
   a.   Are exempt from building permit requirements in compliance with Title
18 of the Municipal Code and the Uniform Building Code;
   b.   Are less than eighty square feet in gross floor area, with no wall
exceeding ten feet in length, or eight feet in height; and
   c.   Are outside required setbacks, including blufftop setbacks specified in
Chapter 17.32 (Ocean Fronting Development).
   These facilities shall require zoning clearance (Section
17.42.020).
   8.   Solar Collectors. The addition of one solar collection panel to the
roof of an existing structure, provided that the collector is mounted flat on
the roof surface and does not exceed twenty-four square feet in area.
   9.   Utilities. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by a
public utility or public agency of underground or overhead utilities intended
to service existing or nearby approved developments (i.e., water, gas,
electric, telecommunication, supply or disposal systems, including wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire-alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and similar facilities and equipment), but
not including new transmission lines and structures. Satellite and cellular
telephone antennas are subject to Section
17.38.040 (Antennas, Wireless Communications Facilities).
   10.   Walls, Retaining Walls. Concrete and masonry walls less than thirty
inches in height located in compliance with subsection (B)(2) above, and
retaining walls (retaining earth only) that result in grade changes of thirty
inches or less and are not required by Title 18 (Grading and Erosion Control
Ordinance) to have a grading permit.
   B.   General Requirements for Exemption. The activities, uses of land and/or
structures identified by Subsection A, above are exempt from the land use
permit requirements of this Zoning Code only when:
   1.   The activity or use is established and operated in compliance with all
applicable development standards of Articles II (Zoning Districts, Allowable
Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards) and III (Site Planning and General
Development Standards);
   2.   Any permit or approval required by regulations other than this Zoning
Code is obtained in compliance with Section
17.03.050 (Additional Permits and Approvals May Be Required); and
   3.   The activity or use is exempt from coastal development permit
requirements in compliance with Coastal Act Section 30610, and California Code
of Regulations Sections 13250 et seq.
17.03.040 Temporary uses.
   Requirements for establishing a temporary use and/or activity (e.g.,
construction yards, seasonal sales lots, special events, temporary office
trailers, and similar uses and activities) are in Section
17.42.040 (Temporary Use Permits).
17.03.050 Additional permits or approvals may be required.
   A land use that complies with the permit requirement or exemption provisions
of this Zoning Code may still be subject to the permit requirements of other
Municipal Code provisions, or other agencies, before the use is constructed, or
otherwise established and put into operation. Nothing in this Zoning Code shall
eliminate the need to obtain any permits or approvals required by:
   A.   Any other Municipal Code provisions, including: building or other
construction permits if they are required by Title 15; a business license if
required by Title 5; subdivision approval if required by Title 16
(Subdivisions); or a grading permit if required by Title 18 (Grading and
Erosion Control Ordinance); or
   B.   Any applicable County, or any regional, State or Federal agency
regulations.
   All necessary permits shall be obtained before starting work or establishing
a new use. The applicant shall be responsible for determining whether any
additional permits are necessary.
Chapter 17.04 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS
17.04.010 Purpose and intent.
   This chapter's purpose is to provide a procedure to make requests for
reasonable accommodation of city land use regulations and policies to comply
with the intent and purpose of United States and California Fair Housing Laws
and city general plan policy HE-30. The city intends to provide reasonable
accommodation of its land use rules, policies, practices and procedures to
provide for equal access to housing for individuals with physical or mental
conditions that limit movement, senses or activities. (Ord. O-2013-002 § 1
(part), 2013)
17.04.020 Definitions.
   A.   Applicant. An individual with a physical or mental condition that
limits movements, senses, his or her representative, or a developer or provider
of housing for the applicant. This definition applies when the application of a
zoning or other land use regulation, policy, practice or procedure acts as a
barrier to fair housing opportunities for individual(s) with physical or mental
conditions that limit movement, senses or activities and substantially limits
one or more major life activities.
   B.   Director. The community development director, or his/her designee.
   C.   Fair Housing Laws. The "Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988" (42 U.S.C.
§ 3601, et seq.), including reasonable accommodation required by 42 U.S.C. §
3604(f)(3)(B), and the "California Fair Employment and Housing Act" (California
Government Code Section 12900, et seq.), including reasonable accommodation
required specifically by California Government Code Sections 12927(c)(1) and
12955(1), as any of these statutory provisions now exist or may be amended from
time to time.
   D.   Reasonable Accommodation or Accommodation. Providing flexibility in the
application of zoning or other land use regulations, policies, practices and
procedures, or waiving certain requirements, when it is necessary to eliminate
barriers to housing opportunities for individuals with physical or mental
conditions that limit movement, senses or activities.
   E.   Reviewing Authority. The community development director, or his/her
designee, or the planning commission, as determined in compliance with Section
17.04.050. (Ord. O-2013-002 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.04.030 Notice to the public of availability of accommodation process.
   Notice of the availability of reasonable accommodation shall be prominently
displayed at public information counters that accept planning and building
applications, advising the public of the availability of the procedure for
eligible individuals. City employees shall direct individuals to the display
whenever they are requested to do so or reasonably believe that individuals
with physical or mental conditions that limit movement, senses or activities or
their representative may be entitled to a reasonable accommodation. Forms for
requesting reasonable accommodation shall be available to the public in the
community development department. (Ord. O-2013-002 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.04.040 Requesting reasonable accommodation.
   A.   In order to make housing available to an individual with physical or
mental conditions that limit movement, senses or activities, an applicant may
request a reasonable accommodation in zoning and other land use regulations,
policies, practices and procedures.
   B.   All requests shall be limited to the minimum reasonable accommodation
that the applicant believes is necessary to accommodate his or her limited
movement, senses or activities. Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be
in writing and provide the following information:
   1.   Name and address of the applicant;
   2.   Name and address of the property owner(s);
   3.   Address of the property for which accommodation is requested;
   4.   The current use of the property for which accommodation is requested;
   5.   Description of the requested accommodation, and the regulations(s),
policy or procedure for which accommodation is sought, which could include site
plans, floor plans, and/or details as necessary to define the extent of the
accommodation;
   6.   The basis for the claim that the Fair Housing Laws apply to the
individual(s) with physical or mental conditions that limit movement, senses or
activities noted to support the claim. The claim may be in the form of a letter
from the medical doctor or other licensed healthcare professional, or other
appropriate evidence;
   7.   Reason that the requested accommodation may be necessary for the
individual(s) to use and enjoy the property;
   8.   How the property will be used by the subject applicant and/or
individual(s).
   C.   Any medical or health information identified by the applicant as
confidential shall be retained by the city in a manner so as to respect the
privacy rights of the individual and shall not be made available for public
inspection.
   D.   A request for reasonable accommodation in regulations, policies,
practices and procedures may be filed at any time that the accommodation may be
necessary to ensure equal access to housing. A reasonable accommodation does
not affect an applicant's obligation to comply with other applicable
regulations not at issue in the requested reasonable accommodation.
   E.   If an individual needs assistance in making the request for reasonable
accommodation, the city will provide assistance to ensure that the process is
accessible.
   F.   The fee for an application for reasonable accommodation shall be
established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. O-2013-002 § 1 (part),
2013)
17.04.050 Reviewing authority and required criteria.
   A.   Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be reviewed by the
director, except requests that are integral to a larger development project
application shall, at the discretion of the director, be reviewed by the
planning commission.
   B.   The reviewing authority shall issue a written decision to grant, grant
with modification, or deny a request for reasonable accommodation that shall be
consistent with Fair Housing Laws and be consistent with the following
criteria:
   1.   The housing, which is the subject of the request for reasonable
accommodation, will be used by individual(s) with physical or mental conditions
that limit movement, senses or activities who are protected under Fair Housing
Laws;
   2.   The requested accommodation is necessary to make housing available to
individual(s) with physical or mental condition that limits movements, senses
or activities under the Fair Housing Laws;
   3.   The requested accommodation would not impose an undue financial or
administrative burden on the city;
   4.   The requested accommodation would be consistent with the neighborhood
character and would not require a fundamental alteration in the nature of the
city's land use and zoning program; and
   5.   The requested accommodation would not impose an undue hardship on the
health, safety or welfare of the subject property owner/occupant or adjacent
property owners. (Ord. O-2013-002 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.04.060 Written decision on the request for reasonable accommodation.
   A.   The reviewing authority shall consider and act on requests for
reasonable accommodation and shall issue a written decision on the request
within thirty calendar days of the date of the application. The reviewing
authority may grant, grant with modifications, or deny a request for reasonable
accommodation. This written decision shall explain in detail the basis of the
decision consistent with the criteria set forth in Section
17.04.050. All written decisions shall give notice of the applicant's right to
appeal and to request reasonable accommodation in the appeals process as set
forth in Section
17.04.070. The notice of decision shall be sent to the applicant by certified
mail.
   B.   If necessary to reach a determination on the request for reasonable
accommodation, the reviewing authority may request further information from the
applicant consistent with Fair Housing Laws, specifying in detail the
information that is required. If additional information is required, a new
thirty calendar day period for the reviewing authority's written decision will
be triggered upon submittal of new information.
   C.   The written decision of the reviewing authority shall be final unless
the applicant appeals in accordance with Section
17.04.070.
   D.   If the reviewing authority fails to render a written decision on the
request for reasonable accommodation within the thirty calendar day time period
the request shall be deemed denied.
   E.   While a request for reasonable accommodation is pending, all laws and
regulations otherwise applicable to the property that is the subject of the
request shall remain in full force and effect.
   F.   If a reasonable accommodation request is granted, an applicant shall
nevertheless have to obtain all other applicable zoning, land use, and building
approvals. (Ord. O-2013-002 § 1 (part), 2013)
17.04.070 Appeals.
   An applicant may appeal any decision of the reviewing authority regarding an
application for reasonable accommodation to the city manager, except where the
decision is made by the planning commission in conjunction with a larger
development project application, wherein the appeal shall be considered by the
city council. All such appeals shall be heard and processed as set forth in
Chapter 17.54 of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code. (Ord. O-2013-002 § 1 (part),
2013)
Article II ZONING DISTRICTS, ALLOWABLE LAND USES, AND ZONE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS
Chapter 17.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS, ADOPTION OF ZONING MAP
17.06.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter establishes the zoning districts applied to property within the
city, determines how the zoning districts are applied on the zoning map, and
provides general permit requirements for development and new land uses.
17.06.020 Zoning districts established.
   Pismo Beach shall be divided into zoning districts which implement the
general plan/local coastal plan. The following zoning districts are
established, and shall be shown on the official zoning map (Section
17.06.030).
   TABLE 2-1
ZONING DISTRICTS
 Zoning    Zoning District General Plan Designation         Applicable
District   Name           Implemented by Zoning District  Zoning Code
Symbol                                                      Chapter   
 Zoning       Zoning District General Plan Designation         Applicable
District      Name           Implemented by Zoning District  Zoning Code
Symbol                                                         Chapter   
 Residential
Districts  
RSL           Single-Family    Low Density Residential            
              Residential                                        17.08   
RSM           Medium Density   Medium Density Residential
              Residential
RR            Resort           High Density Residential
              Residential
 Commercial
Districts  
CRS           Resort           Resort Commercial                  
              Commercial                                         17.12   
CD            Downtown         Commercial
              Commercial
CG            General          Commercial
              Commercial
CS            Service          Industrial
              Commercial
 Special
Purpose
Districts  
PF            Public           Public/Semi-Public                 
              Facilities                                         17.16   
OS            Open Space       Open Space
 Overlay
Districts  
CA            Coastal Appeal   All                                
                                                                 17.18   
HL            Height           All
              Limitation
N             Noise            All
V             View Protection  All
  
17.06.030 Zoning maps adopted.
   The council hereby adopts the city of Pismo Beach zoning map (hereafter
referred to as the "zoning map"), which is on file with the department.
   A.   Inclusion by Reference. The zoning map, together with all legends,
symbols, notations, references, zoning district boundaries, and other
information on the map, has been adopted by the council in compliance with
Government Code Sections 65800 et seq., and is hereby incorporated into this
Zoning Code by reference as though it were fully included here.
   B.   Zoning District Boundaries. The boundaries of the zoning districts
established by Section
17.06.020 (Zoning Districts Established) shall be shown upon the zoning map.
   C.   Relationship to General Plan/Local Coastal Plan. The zoning map shall
implement the general plan/local coastal plan, specifically including the land
use diagram.
   D.   Map Amendments. Amendments to the zoning map shall follow the process
established in Chapter 17.56 (General Plan/Local Coastal Plan, Zoning Map, and
Zoning Code Amendments).
   E.   Zoning Map Interpretation. The zoning map shall be interpreted in
compliance with Section
17.02.020.C (Zoning Map Boundaries).
17.06.040 Zoning district regulations.
   A.   Purpose.
Chapters 17.08 through
17.18 determine which land uses are allowed in each zoning district established
by Section
17.06.020 (Zoning Districts Established), what land use permit is required to
establish each use, and the basic development standards that apply to allowed
land uses in each zoning district.
   B.   Determination of Allowable Land Uses and Permit Requirements. The uses
of land allowed by this Zoning Code in each zoning district are identified in
Chapters 17.08,
17.12, and
17.16, together with the type of land use permit required for each use.
   1.   Permit Requirements. Tables 2-2, 2-4, and 2-6 provide for land uses
that are:
   a.   Permitted subject to compliance with all applicable provisions of this
Zoning Code, subject to first obtaining a zoning clearance (Section
17.42.020), and any building permit or other permit required by the Municipal
Code. These are shown as "P" uses in the tables;
   b.   Allowed subject to the approval of a minor use permit (Chapter
17.42.050), and shown as "MUP" uses in the tables; and
   c.   Allowed subject to the approval of a conditional use permit (Chapter
17.42.050), and shown as "CUP" uses in the tables.
   Where a proposed project includes multiple land uses, and Tables 2-2, 2-4,
and 2-6 require different land use permits for some of the uses, the project
shall be authorized through the approval of the permit requiring the highest
level review. (For example, a structure proposed in the CG district with a bar
on the first floor (CUP required) and offices on the second floor (permitted
uses) shall be authorized through conditional use permit approval.)
   2.   Uses Not Listed. Land uses that are not listed in the tables or are not
shown in a particular zoning district are not allowed, except as otherwise
provided by Section
17.02.020(D) (Rules of Interpretation--Allowable Uses of Land), or Section
17.03.030 (Exemptions from Land Use Permit Requirements).
   3.   Uses Not Permitted In Any Zone. The following uses shall not be allowed
in any zone, and no conditional use permit shall issue permitting such use:
   a.   Medical marijuana dispensaries.
   b.   Marijuana cultivation.
   C.   Site Divided by Zoning District Boundary. Where a site is divided by
one or more district boundaries, the site shall be developed in compliance with
the requirements of each district, as applicable. For example, if a site is
zoned both commercial and residential, the portion of the site zoned commercial
shall be developed in compliance with the commercial zoning regulations, and
the portion zoned residential shall be developed in compliance with the
requirements of the applicable residential district.
   D.   Conflicts Between Provisions. Rules for resolving conflicts between
different Zoning Code provisions may be found in
17.02.020(E) (Rules of Interpretation--Conflicting Requirements).
(Ord. O-2016-003 § 4, 2016; Ord. 06-02 § 5, 2006)
17.06.050 Nuisance and civil penalties.
   Any cultivation, processing or distribution of marijuana which takes place
in violation of any provision of this chapter is unlawful, and is hereby
declared a public nuisance and is subject to administrative penalties pursuant
to
chapter 1.24, in addition to any other remedies available to the city.
(Ord. O-2016-003 § 5, 2016)
Chapter 17.08 RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
17.08.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides regulations applicable to development and new land
uses in the residential zoning districts established by Section
17.06.020 (Zoning Districts Established).
17.08.020 Purposes of residential zoning districts.
   The purposes of the individual residential zoning districts and the manner
in which they are applied are as follows:
   A.   RSL (Single-Family Low Density Residential) District. The RSL zoning
district is intended for areas appropriate for neighborhoods of detached,
single family homes. Allowable densities range from one to eight dwelling units
per acre. This district is intended for areas where site characteristics,
access, and available public services and utilities are suitable for single
family development. The RSL zoning district is consistent with the low density
residential land use classification of the general plan/local coastal plan.
   B.   RSM (Single-Family Medium Density Residential) District. The RSM zoning
district is intended for areas appropriate for single-family and multi-family
residential uses. Allowable densities range from five to ten dwelling units per
acre. The RSM zoning district is consistent with the medium density land use
classification of the general plan/local coastal plan.
   C.   RR (Resort Residential) Districts. The RR zoning district is intended
for areas appropriate for hotels and medium and high density multi-family
dwellings. The RR zoning district shall be applied on the zoning map as either
RR-L (Resort Residential--Low Density) or RR-H (Resort Residential--High
Density). Allowable densities range from five to ten units per acre in the RR-
L district; and from eleven to thirty units per acre in the RR-H district. The
RR zoning districts are consistent with the medium density and high density
land use classifications of the general plan/local coastal plan. (Ord. 03-04 §
2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.08.030 Residential district land uses and permit requirements.
   Table 2-2 identifies the uses of land allowed by this Zoning Code in each
residential zoning district, and the land use permit required to establish each
use, in compliance with Section
17.06.040(B) (Zoning District Regulations).
   Note: where the last column in the tables ("See Standards in Section")
includes a section number, the regulations in the referenced section apply to
the use; however, provisions in other Sections of this Zoning Code may also
apply.
   TABLE 2-2
ALLOWED USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
PERMIT REQUIREMENT BY
DISTRICT   
 LAND USE (1)               RSL  RSM  RR  See standards in Section:   
 AGRICULTURE, RESOURCE & OPEN
SPACE USES   
PERMIT REQUIREMENT BY
DISTRICT   
 LAND USE (1)              RSL  RSM  RR  See standards in Section:   
 AGRICULTURE, RESOURCE &
OPEN SPACE USES   
Crop production, tree        P      P      P
farming--Non-commercial
Greenhouses, private         P      P      P
 RECREATION, EDUCATION &
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY USES   
Community centers            CUP    CUP    CUP
Equestrian facilities        CUP          CUP
Golf courses/country clubs   CUP    CUP    CUP
Parks and playgrounds        CUP    CUP    CUP
Private residential          CUP    CUP    CUP
recreational facilities
Religious places of worship  CUP    CUP    CUP
Schools                      CUP    CUP    CUP
 RESIDENTIAL USES   
 Accessory dwelling units   P      P      P      17.38.155
(7)
Condominiums                        P      CUP
Duplexes                                  P
Emergency shelters                  CUP     
Employee housing                           CUP(5)  
Home occupations             P      P      P      17.38.070
Mobile home parks            CUP    CUP    CUP    17.38.100
Mobile homes                 P      P      P      17.38.110
Multi-family dwellings                     P      17.38.120
Residential accessory uses   P      P      P      17.38.150
and structures
Rooming and boarding houses                CUP
 Short-term rentals and     P      P             17.09
homestays
Senior residential projects         P      P
Single-family dwellings      P      P      P
 SERVICE / COMMERCIAL USES
  
Adult day care facilities    CUP    CUP    CUP
Bed and breakfast inns              CUP    CUP
Child day care centers              CUP          17.38.050
Child day care--Large family MUP    MUP    MUP    17.38.050
day care homes
Child day care--Small family P      P      P      17.38.050
day care homes
Conversion of visitor-
serving lodging to non-                    CUP    17.08.050
visitor serving use
Medical services             CUP    CUP
Hotels and motels                          CUP(7) 17.38.080
Public utility or safety     CUP    CUP
facilities
Residential care homes--6 or P      P      P
fewer clients
Residential care homes--7 or CUP    CUP    CUP
more clients
Storage yard for
recreational vehicles/             CUP(6) CUP(6) 17.38.170
equipment
Telecommunications           CUP    CUP    CUP    17.38.040
facilities
 Vacation rentals                        
 
KEY TO PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
 
 Symbol  Permit Requirement                    Procedure is in Section:   
P         Permitted use--Zoning Clearance required 17.42.020
          (2) (3)
MUP       Minor Use Permit required (2) (3)        17.42.050
CUP       Conditional Use Permit required (2)      17.42.050
         Use not allowed. See
          17.02.020.D regarding uses not listed.
 
   Notes:
   (1) See Article VI for definitions of each listed land use.
   (2) Site plan and architectural review may also be required; see Section
17.42.030.
   (3) Conditional use permit approval may be required for hillside
development; see
Chapter 17.28.
   (4) Only allowed accessory to a hotel, and where the housing is for hotel
employees only.
   (5) Allowed only within a mobile home park.
   (6) Hotels and motels are allowed only in the RR-H zoning district.
   (7) Accessory dwelling units not permitted in the Pismo Heights planning
area.
(Ord. O-2018-011 § 4, 2018: Ord. O-2018-007 § 2, 2018; Ord. O-2010-001 § 2
(part), 2010; Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003; Ord. 03-03 § 2 (Exh. B
(part)), 2003)
17.08.040 Residential district general development standards.
   A.   General Standards--Use of Table. Subdivisions, new land uses and
structures, and alterations to existing land uses and structures, shall be
designed, constructed, and/or established in compliance with the requirements
in Table 2-3, in addition to the applicable standards in Article III (Site
Planning and General Development Standards).
   B.   Standards Within Specific Plan Areas. Subdivisions, new land uses and
structures, and alterations to existing land uses and structures within an area
subject to a Specific Plan shall comply with the requirements in Table 2-4, in
addition to the requirements of Subsection A above. In the event of any
conflict between the requirements of Tables 2-3 and 2-4, including any
references to other sections of this chapter that are noted in Table 2-3, the
requirements of Table 2-4 shall control within the applicable specific plan
area.
   TABLE 2-3
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 Requirement by Zoning District   
                           Requirement by Zoning District   
 Development Feature      RSL                 RSM   
 Minimum lot size         Minimum area and width for parcels proposed in new
                            subdivisions.   
Lot area                    5000 sq. ft.
Lot width                   50 ft.
 Maximum density (1)       1 to 8 units per acre  9 to 15 units per acre
 Maximum number of dwelling1 unit per parcel
units per parcel  
                             Minimum setbacks required. See
 Setbacks required       Chapter 17.22 for setback measurement, allowed
                            projections into setbacks, and exceptions to
                            required setbacks.   
Front                       Parcels of 4,000 sq. ft. or larger: 20 ft. for all
                            structures.
                            Parcels of less than 4,000 sq. ft.: 20% of the
                        depth of the lot, with a minimum requirement of 10
                            ft.
                        Accessory structures: 20 ft. minimum (See
                            17.38.150)
                        See Section
                            17.10.040(A) for second floor setback requirements.
                        See Section
                            17.34.070(A)(4) for garage setback requirements.
Front, blufftop lot         15 ft.
                        Accessory structures: 20 ft. minimum (See
                            17.38.150)
Sides (each)                5 ft.
Street side                 10 ft.
Rear                        10 ft. on parcels with a depth of 70 ft. or more;
                        5 ft. on parcels with a depth less than 70 ft.
                        10 ft. for accessory structures (See 17.38.150)
                            25 ft. from the top of the bluff for parcels
Blufftop                    subdivided before 1-23-81; as determined by
                            geologic study elsewhere. See
                            Chapter 17.32 (Ocean Fronting Development).
                            Accessory structures must be separated from any
Between buildings           other buildings by at least 6 ft. See Section
                            17.38.150.
 Site coverage (2)         55%
 Floor area ratio (FAR)  0.86 maximum for parcels of 2,700 sq. ft. or less;
                        0.72 maximum for parcels larger than 2,700 sq. ft.
                                                   25 ft. from site grade in
                                                   the Pismo Heights and the
 Height limit (3)          25 ft. from site grade Motel District planning
                                                   areas; 35 ft. from site
                                                   grade elsewhere.
 Landscaping required    20% of site area. See
                            Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping).
 Parking                 As required by
                            Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading).
  
  Requirement by Zoning District   
                       Requirement by Zoning District   
 Development Feature    RR-L                   RR-H   
 Minimum lot size       Minimum area and width for parcels proposed in new
                          subdivisions.   
Lot area                  5,000 sq. ft.
Lot width                 50 ft.
 Maximum density (1)     9 to 15 units per acre    16 to 30 units per acre
 Maximum number of       1 unit per each 2,000 sq. 1 unit per each 1,450 sq.
dwelling units per        ft. of parcel area        ft. of parcel area
parcel  
                           Minimum setbacks required. See
 Setbacks required     Chapter 17.34 for setback measurement, allowed
                          projections into setbacks, and exceptions to required
                          setbacks.   
Front                     Parcels of 4,000 sq. ft. or larger: 20 ft. for all
                          structures.
                      Parcels of less than 4,000 sq. ft.: 15 ft. for all
                          structures.
                      See Section
                          17.10.040 for second floor setback requirements.
Front, blufftop lot       15 ft.
                      Accessory structures: 20 ft. minimum (See 17.38.150)
Sides (each)              5 ft.
Street side               10 ft.
Rear                      10 ft. on parcels with a depth of 70 ft. or more;
                      5 ft. on parcels with a depth less than 70 ft.
                          25 ft. from the top of the bluff for parcels
Blufftop                  subdivided before 1-23-81; as determined by geologic
                          study elsewhere. See
                          Chapter 17.32 (Ocean Fronting Development).
 Floor area ratio (FAR) 0.86 maximum for parcels of 2,700 sq. ft. or less;
                          0.72 maximum for parcels larger than 2,700 sq. ft.
 Site coverage (2)       55%
 Height limit (3)        35 ft. from site grade
 Landscaping required  20% of site area. See
                          Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping).
 Parking               As required by
                          Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading).
 
   Notes:
   (1) Maximum number of dwelling units allowed per net buildable acre in a
single-family subdivision or a multi-family project. The actual number of units
allowed is determined through the subdivision or land use permit process, as
applicable. See Section
17.38.080 for maximum density requirements applicable to hotels and motels.
   (2) Maximum percentage of site area that may be covered with structures. See
the definition of site coverage in Article VI (Definitions).
   (3) Maximum allowed height of structures, except where a height limitation
(HL), or view considerations (V) overlay district applies (Sections
17.18.040, and
17.18.060, respectively). The HL overlay applies in the following planning
areas established by the general plan: Dinosaur Caves, Freeway Foothills, North
Spyglass, Motel District, Shell Beach, Spyglass, South Palisades, and Ontario
Ridge/Sunset Palisades. See also
Chapter 17.20 (Height Measurement and Exceptions).
   (4) See Section
17.10.040(A).
   TABLE 2-4
SPECIFIC PLAN AREA RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   Requirement by Specific Plan Area   
                  Requirement by Specific Plan Area   
 Development        Bay Cliff     Mattie Road  Pacific       Pismo Oaks   
Feature           Village                     Estates  
 Coastal access  Not applicable
 Maximum density   8 units per    3 to 10 units  4.5 units per acre
(1)                 acre           per acre
 Setbacks           Minimum setbacks required. See
required          Chapter 17.22 for setback measurement, allowed projections
                    into setbacks, and exceptions to required setbacks.   
                    The lesser of:                The lesser of:
                    20 ft.; or 20% 15 ft. from    20 ft.; or 20%
Front               of average lot back of        of average lot 15 ft.
                    depth with 10  sidewalk       depth with 10
                    ft. minimum.                  ft. minimum.
                15 ft. for                15 ft. for         
                    garage.                       garage.
Sides (each)        10% of lot width, with a 4 ft. minimum and a maximum
                    requirement of 5 ft. (4)
Street side         20% of lot width, with a 7 ft. minimum and a maximum
                    requirement of 10 ft. (4)
Rear                10% of average lot depth, with a 5 ft. minimum and a
                    maximum requirement of 10 ft. (4)
Blufftop            N.A.
Highway 101         N.A.           50 ft.         5 ft., with    N.A.
                                                  solid wall
 Site coverage (2) 55%
 Floor area ratio  0.80
(FAR)
                    25 ft.,
                    limited to 3
                    stories above
                    site grade.
                    Floors above
                    the first
 Height limit (3)  shall be       25 ft. from site grade
                    stepped back
                    up the
                    hillside to
                    reduce the
                    appearance of
                    bulk.
 Landscaping     20% of site area. See
                    Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping)
 Greenbreaks     Required       N.A.
 Parking         As required by
                    Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading)
  
                 Requirement by Specific Plan Area   
 Development        Spyglass     South        Sunset           Toucan
Feature           Ridge       Palisades   Palisades/        Terrace   
                                                Ontario Ridge  
 Coastal access            See Section   N.A.
                                  17.32.050  
 Maximum density   8 units per   7 units per   1 unit per acre   8 units per
(1)                 acre          acre                            acre
 Setbacks           Minimum setbacks required. See
required          Chapter 17.22 for setback measurement, allowed projections
                    into setbacks, and exceptions to required setbacks.   
                    The lesser
                    of: 20 ft.;
Front               or 20% of     20 ft.        Mfg. home area: 12.5 ft.; and
                    average lot                 20 ft. for garage.
                    depth with 10
                    ft. minimum.
                15 ft. for                  
                    garage.
                    10% of lot
                    width, with a 1/2 of
Sides (each)        4 ft. minimum structure     10 ft.            3 to 5 ft.
                    and a maximum height to top
                    requirement   plate
                    of 5 ft.
                    20% of lot
                    width, with a               20% of lot width, with a 7 ft.
Street side         7 ft. minimum 20 ft.        minimum and a maximum
                    and a maximum               requirement of 10 ft.
                    requirement
                    of 10 ft.
Rear                10% of average lot depth, with a 5 ft. minimum and a
                    maximum requirement of 10 ft.
                                  25 ft. from
                                  the top of
                                  the bluff for
                                  parcels
                                  subdivided
                                  before 1-23-
                                  81; as
Blufftop            N.A.          determined by N.A.
                                  geologic
                                  study
                                  elsewhere.
                                  See
                                  Chapter 17.32
                                  (Ocean
                                  Fronting
                                  Development).
Highway 101         50 ft.        N.A.
 Site coverage (2) 55%           40%           55%
 Floor area ratio  0.80          0.60          0.80              0.80
(FAR)
                                  15 ft. from
                                  site grade
                    25 ft. from   for first row
                    site grade    of structures
                    and 3         nearest bluff
                    stories.      top park;
                    Floors above  Below nearest
 Height limit (3)  the first     freeway lane  25 ft. from site grade
                    shall be      elevation for
                    stepped back  structures
                    up the        between Shell
                    hillside.     Beach Road
                                  and freeway;
                                  25 ft.
                                  elsewhere.
 Landscaping (4)   20% of site   40% of site   20% of site area
                    area          area
 Greenbreaks     Required      N.A.
 Parking         As required by
                    Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading).
 
   Notes:
   (1) Maximum number of dwelling units allowed per net buildable acre in a
single-family subdivision or a multi-family project. The actual number of units
allowed is determined through the subdivision or land use permit process, as
applicable.
   (2) Maximum percentage of site area that may be covered with structures. See
the definition of site coverage in Article VI (Definitions).
   (3) Maximum allowed height of structures, except where a height limitation
(HL), or view considerations (V) overlay district applies (Sections
17.18.040, and
17.18.060, respectively). The HL overlay applies in the following planning
areas established by the general plan: Dinosaur Caves, Freeway Foothills, North
Spyglass, Motel District, Shell Beach, Spyglass, South Palisades, and Ontario
Ridge/Sunset Palisades. See also
Chapter 17.20 (Height Measurement and Exceptions).
   (4) See also
Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping).
(Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.08.050 RR district standards--Visitor serving conversions.
   The conversion of visitor serving lodging in the RR zoning district to non-
visitor serving uses shall require conditional use permit approval.
Chapter 17.09
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
17.09.010 Purpose and intent.
   The use of single-family homes as short-term rentals (for a period of less
than 30 consecutive days) has become increasingly more common in the decade
preceding the adoption of this regulation. Negative impacts associated with
this unregulated proliferation of short-term rentals include, but are not
limited to increased traffic, noise and trash; parking impacts; loss of
residential character, including vacancies in neighborhoods; reduction in long-
term housing stock and opportunities for low and moderate income housing; a
competitive disadvantage for legal short-term rental operators and hoteliers;
and loss of transient occupancy taxes (TOT).
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a permitting process and
appropriate standards to regulate the short-term rental of single-family homes
in the city in order to minimize the potential negative impacts of such rentals
on neighborhoods; preserve the character of residential neighborhoods; minimize
impacts to coastal resources; provide for the reasonable use of property; and
ensure that short-term rentals are consistent with the general plan, zoning
code, and other applicable sections of the municipal code.
   This chapter addresses applicability, residency requirements, frequency,
penalties, registration, maximum occupancy, good neighbor policy, on-site
parking requirements, inspection requirements, and compliance with occupancy
tax and assessment requirements.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.09.020 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms are hereby defined. The
words "shall" and "will" are mandatory; the word "may" is discretionary.
   A.   "Bedroom" shall mean a room that is primarily used for sleeping. A
bedroom shall be no less than seventy (70) square feet in size, with a minimum
horizontal dimension of no less than seven (7) feet on any side. A bedroom
offered for rent within a short-term rental or homestay shall meet all
applicable California Building Code life safety requirements.
   B.   "Homestay" shall mean an owner-occupied, detached single-family
residence where bedrooms are rented for compensation for less than thirty (30)
consecutive days.
   C.   "Primary residence" shall mean the dwelling owned and occupied as the
property owner's principal place of residence, where the owner lives more than
50% of the year (26 C.F.R. §1.121-1(b)(2)), defined herein as 183 days or more
per year. For purposes of short-term rental or homestay licensing, a person can
only have one primary residence at any time.
   D.   "Proof of primary residence." In addition to the requirement that the
licensed property be the property owner's primary residence as defined herein,
the city shall also review the homeowner's income tax return or other
documentation deemed acceptable by the city showing the dwelling is the owner's
principal residence for tax purposes.
   Pursuant to U.S. Internal Revenue Regulation 26 C.F.R. §1.121-1(b)(2), the
address used on federal and state tax returns is used as a factor to determine
principal residency for tax purposes.
   E.   "Responsible party" shall mean a person, over the age of eighteen, who
shall be legally responsible for compliance of all renters and visitors of the
STR or homestay with all applicable provisions of the Pismo Beach Municipal
Code. The responsible party shall sign the good neighbor policy and is
designated as the point of contact for the short-term rental or homestay.
   The responsible party shall assure the maintenance of the licensed property
in compliance with this and other applicable regulations, and shall be
responsible for the conduct and acts of said renters and visitors to the extent
provided herein. The responsible party's contact information shall be provided
to all short-term renters and neighbors within three hundred feet of the STR or
homestay in the manner prescribed in
Chapter 5.22.
   F.   "Short-term rental" or "STR" shall mean the rental of a detached
single-family residence or accessory dwelling unit for less than thirty (30)
consecutive days where the primary residence is not being concurrently occupied
by the owner.
   G.   "Long-term rental" shall mean a rental for thirty (30) consecutive days
or more. Any rental agreement that allows a sublet or sublease to multiple
parties for any terms less than thirty (30) days, or early cancellation with or
without penalty that allows multiple rentals within a thirty (30) day period,
shall be considered a short-term rental and be subject to the terms of a short-
term license as provided in this Code.
(Ord. O-2020-007 § 2, 2020: Ord. O-2019-004 § 2, 2019: Ord. O-2018-007 § 1
(part), 2018)
17.09.030 Applicability.
   This chapter shall be applicable only in the following zoning designations:
Single-Family Low Density Residential (RSL), Single-Family Medium Density
Residential (RSM), and Open Space (OS). STRs and homestays are prohibited in
all other residential zones. To the extent that vacation rentals, short-term
rentals, or equivalent uses are permitted in the Downtown Core, as defined by
Planning Area K of the General Plan, or other non-residential zones, such
rentals shall not be subject to this chapter.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.09.040 Application and permit requirements.
   Each STR or homestay shall procure a short-term rental (STR) license from
the City of Pismo Beach. The STR or homestay shall be registered by the
property owner, not a property management company. The licensing process and
other administrative provisions shall be established in
Chapter 5.22. As part of the licensing process, property owners within three
hundred (300) feet of the subject licensed property shall be notified about the
intent to operate said property as an STR or homestay and shall be provided
contact information for the property owner and responsible party.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.09.050 Homestay.
   Homestays shall be regulated in the same manner as short-term rentals with
the exception of allowed frequency. For homestays, there is no limit to the
number of rental days allowed per year, subject to the property owner being
concurrently on-site during the homestay.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.09.060 Primary residence requirement.
   STRs and homestays shall be permitted only at single-family properties that
are the primary residence of the property owner. For purposes of short-term
rental or homestay licensing, a property owner shall only have one primary
residence at any time. Legally permitted accessory dwelling units occupied by
the property owner may be deemed to be the property owner's primary residence.
   The property owner shall be required to provide proof of primary residence
on a yearly basis. The property owner(s) shall be required to be individual
owner(s) or trustee(s), and not a corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, or other business or commercial entity.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.09.070 Short-term rental and homestay standards.
   A.   Initial inspection. Prior to issuance of an STR or homestay license,
the city shall conduct an inspection of subject property to confirm bedroom
count, on-site parking, and applicable safety standards. If complaints are
received about STR or homestay operations, the city shall have the right to re-
inspect the property. In the event such re-inspection requires access to the
interior of a dwelling unit, the property owner shall provide the city access
to the premises upon forty-eight (48) hours' advance notice.
   B.   Transmittal of rules and good neighbor policy. Prior to rental of an
STR or homestay, the property owner and responsible party shall be provided
with a good neighbor policy, consisting of a list of rules and
responsibilities, in a form approved by the city manager. The property owner
and responsible party shall initial each rule indicating that they have read
the policy and sign an acknowledgement that in the event applicable municipal
code sections and/or administrative rules are violated, renters and/or visitors
and/or the property owner may be fined by the city. A good neighbor brochure,
summarizing the good neighbor policy shall be placed or posted in a clearly
visible location within the STR or homestay.
   C.   Maximum occupancy. Maximum overnight occupancy of an STR or homestay
shall be limited to two people per bedroom, plus two additional people. For
example, a two-bedroom STR may have up to and including six occupants
overnight. This calculation shall be inclusive of children. Bedroom count shall
be confirmed via inspection by the city prior to the issuance of an STR or
homestay license.
   D.   Visitors. The number of visitors to an STR or homestay shall not exceed
a number equal to the allowable occupancy of the STR or homestay at any time.
For example, if the maximum overnight occupancy is 6, then no more than 6
additional visitors are allowed. Visitors are not allowed in the STR or
homestay between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and shall not stay overnight on the
premises.
   E.   Frequency. Consistent with the definition of primary residence, a
qualifying STR property shall be limited to a maximum of 182 rental days per
year (less than half the year) without the property owner concurrently on site.
There shall be no limit to the number of rental days per year for homestays,
during which the property owner is concurrently on site.
   F.   On-site parking. On-site parking shall be required for the operation of
an STR or homestay.
      1.   Required parking is based on the number of bedrooms provided for
rent, as follows:
      1 bedroom: Minimum of 1 on-site parking space
      2 bedrooms: Minimum of 2 on-site parking spaces
      3–4 bedrooms: Minimum of 3 on-site parking spaces
      5 or more bedrooms: Minimum of 4 on-site parking spaces
      2.   Required parking shall be provided in a garage or on a driveway.
Tandem parking configurations shall be acceptable. Street parking shall not be
counted toward required parking.
   G.   Noise. Renters and visitors of STR and homestay properties shall not
generate noise to an extent that unreasonably interferes with the quiet use and
enjoyment of any other residence or business in the area. Any noise occurring
after 10:00 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. shall be contained within the STR or
homestay. What is reasonable in terms of noise generated shall be determined
under existing legal standards applicable to evaluating alleged nuisances,
including
Chapter 9.24 any other city noise standards.
   H.   Trash. Trash and refuse shall not be left stored within public view,
except in proper containers for the purposes of collection. There shall be no
accumulation or storage of trash and/or debris on the site or within the STR or
homestay.
   I.   Traffic. Vehicles used and traffic generated by the STR or homestay
shall not exceed normal residential levels or unreasonably interfere with the
quiet use and enjoyment of any other residences or businesses in the area. What
is reasonable in terms of traffic generated shall be determined under existing
legal standards applicable to evaluating alleged nuisances.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.09.080 Tax and assessment compliance.
   The property owner shall be required to submit a business license
application to the City of Pismo Beach identifying the property as a short-term
rental/homestay. Once it is determined that the property is eligible to be
licensed, the property owner shall apply for a Transient Occupancy Tax/Lodging
Business Improvement District/Tourism Marketing District (TOT/LBID/TMD)
certificate. This certificate shall require the property owner to collect and
remit TOT/LBID/TMD payments to the city on a monthly basis, in full compliance
with the city's TOT and LBID ordinances, including but not limited to
Chapter 3.20 and
Chapter 3.26, as well as the County's Tourism Marketing District assessment.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.09.090 Administrative standards and rules.
   The city manager, or designee, shall have the authority to establish
administrative rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this
chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out, furthering,
and enforcing the requirements and the provisions of this chapter. In
particular, the city manager, or designee, will establish administrative
procedures for complaints. A copy of such administrative rules and regulations
shall be on file in the office of the city clerk and posted on the city's
website.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
17.09.100 Violations.
   A.   Penalty. It is unlawful to violate the provisions of this chapter.
Violations of this chapter are punishable as misdemeanors, except as otherwise
provided in Section
1.20.010. Violations of this chapter may alternatively be punished as
administrative violations as provided in
Chapter 1.24. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section
1.24.080, the initial fine shall be, at a minimum, seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750) for an administrative violation of this chapter and shall be, at
a minimum, one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each subsequent violation. Each
separate day or rental night in which a violation exists may be considered a
separate violation. Any attempt to rent an unlicensed residence as an STR or
homestay by advertising said property for short-term rental purposes shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Revocation. If the property owner or responsible party is deemed by the
city manager to be non-responsive to a complaint more than three (3) times in a
twenty-four (24)-month period, or if more than three (3) significant
violations, as defined below, occur in any twenty-four (24)-month period, or if
the property owner or responsible party is cited three (3) or more times in a
twenty-four (24) month period, the STR license may be revoked. Appeals shall be
conducted pursuant to Section
1.24.110.
   C.   Significant violations. "Complaint" as used in this subsection means
the need or requirement to contact the property owner or responsible party to
rectify a situation that is disturbing to a neighbor or resident.
   As used in this subsection, a "significant violation" means a situation
where the property owner or responsible party is either unable or unwilling to
rectify the situation within thirty (30) minutes, and/or when public safety
personnel must be called to assist in resolving the situation, and/or a
situation that causes substantial disturbance to the neighbors or neighborhood.
   Examples of significant violations include, but are not limited to:
   1.   Failure of the property owner or responsible party to take action to
respond to a complaint within thirty (30) minutes after the city contacts the
property owner or responsible party.
   2.   The inability of city staff or the Pismo Beach Police Dispatch to reach
the property owner or responsible party.
   3.   Violation of the STR or homestay maximum overnight occupancy, number of
visitors, parking, noise, trash, or other requirements as set forth in this
chapter.
   4.   Failure to notify city staff when responsible party or property owner
contact information changes.
   5.   Failure to pay fees or make TOT/LBID/TMD payments in accordance with
this chapter or
Chapters 3.20 or
3.26.
   6.   Providing false or misleading information on an STR/homestay license
application or other documentation as required by this chapter.
   7.   Violations of state, county, or city health regulations.
   The city manager, or designee, shall have the authority to determine what
other violations of this chapter constitute a significant violation, as
necessary, to achieve the objectives of this chapter. (Ord. O-2018-007 § 1
(part), 2018)
17.09.110 Fees.
   Application and licensing fees associated with STRs and homestays shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 1 (part), 2018)
Chapter 17.10 RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS
17.10.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides residential design standards intended to assist
project designers and property owners in understanding and implementing the
general plan's goals for attaining high quality residential development.
17.10.020 Applicability.
   A.   The provisions of this chapter apply to all single-family and multi-
family residential projects, including condominiums, requiring site plan and
architectural review, in compliance with Section
17.42.030.
   B.   The review authority may exercise discretion in applying these
standards to proposed projects, where the review authority determines that a
design feature proposed by the applicant as an alternative to these standards
achieves substantially the same results as these standards. (Ord. 03-04 § 2
(Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.10.030 Objectives.
   Single-family residential development can mean large, boxy structures that
do not fit into existing neighborhoods. The objectives of the following single-
family design standards are to provide specific means to articulate visible
walls, to prevent the appearance of "top-heavy" buildings, and to create
neighborhood-friendly residences that do not overwhelm the street.
   Because of their higher densities, multi-family residential projects differ
from single-family residential projects by tending to generate large parking
areas, a decrease in private open space, and large box-like structures. If not
properly designed, parking facilities can dominate the site and open spaces may
be relegated to left over areas not related to the dwelling units or the people
who live there. Residential developments with unarticulated walls and roofs
surrounded by parking lots and rows of carports along public streets are
examples of practices that should be avoided.
   The objectives of the following multi-family design standards are to provide
potential solutions to the problems that are often inherent in higher density
residential developments through proper site planning, parking, circulation,
building design, and landscaping. (Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.10.040 Single-family dwelling design standards.
   The design and development standards of this section shall apply to the
construction, alteration, or enlargement of single-family dwellings in the RSL,
RSM, and RR zoning districts.
   A.   Second Floor Massing. To avoid "boxy" structures that have unrelieved
exterior wall planes extending in height for two or more stories, and to
promote vertical articulation of wall planes, the second floor living area
shall be set back from the ground floor building footprint on the street sides
of the house as much as determined by the review authority to be feasible.
Within the Shell Beach planning area, the second floor setback shall be located
at the front of the house.
   B.   Neighborhood Character. In order to attain compatibility with the
existing scale and character of the surrounding neighborhood, the development
of new single-family dwellings and the alteration of existing dwellings shall
include design features or elements that are similar or complementary to nearby
homes, including building form and mass, exterior materials, roof form and
style, and window shape and style.
   C.   Design Features. The following design features are encouraged and shall
be considered by the review authority in reaching decisions in the site plan
and architectural review process.
   1.   Garages. Required parking for single-family dwellings shall be enclosed
within a garage; carports shall be prohibited. Roll-up or similar types of
garage doors shall be required to maximize parking area on the driveway apron
and to avoid the obstruction of sidewalks by parked vehicles.
   2.   Facade Articulation. Long expanses of uninterrupted exterior wall
planes should be avoided. Exterior wall planes should be relieved by: the
provision of off-sets in wall planes; placement of windows; incorporation of
porches, balconies, trellises, or decks; incorporation of trim, ornamentation
or architectural detailing appropriate to the building style; use of varied
textures and colors; and the use of other design accents to soften the
architecture.
   3.   Roof Articulation. Long expanses of uninterrupted roof planes should be
avoided. Roof heights, planes, and lines should be varied. Traditional roof
forms, especially gable and hip designs, should be used unless infeasible. Roof
features including dormers and clerestories are encouraged. If flat or low-
slope roof forms are proposed, special care should be taken to ensure
compatibility with, and minimize shading of, adjacent structures. (Ord. 03-04 §
2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.10.050 Multi-family project design standards.
   A.   Site Planning Considerations.
   1.   Orientation. Placement of buildings shall consider the existing context
of the surrounding area. New development shall respect the privacy, solar
access and, where feasible, views to the ocean of adjacent uses through
appropriate siting of structures.
   2.   Cluster Units. Clustering of units shall be a consistent site planning
element. Projects containing more than ten dwelling units should be broken up
into groups of units with each structure containing not more than four to six
units each.
   3.   Retain Amenities. Natural amenities (e.g., views, mature trees, natural
topography) on the site shall be preserved and incorporated into the
development whenever possible.
   4.   Drainage. Street drainage shall be collected in curb gutters. The use
of centerswale drainage devices is discouraged. Parking lots may drain to a
single concrete swale at the edge of the aisle.
   5.   Grading. Development of sloped properties shall minimize grading by
following the natural contours of the land. Terraced parking lots, stepped
building pads, and larger setbacks shall be used to preserve the natural land
form and to minimize grade differentials with adjacent streets and adjoining
properties.
   6.   Building Relationship to the Street. Generally the street frontage
should consist of residential units with window, doors, balconies and porches
facing and in reasonably close proximity to the street, both in terms of height
(i.e., units at street level, rather than raised) and in distance from the
street (minimum set back). The street level frontage should consist of
residential units, rather than parking lots or parking structures, whenever
possible.
   B.   Building Placement.
   1.   Maintain Privacy. Buildings shall be oriented to avoid instances where
living spaces of one dwelling unit face the living spaces of another and
thereby significantly reduce privacy of residents.
   2.   Private Outdoor Space. Private outdoor space (e.g., patios, courtyards)
shall be designated with maximum consideration for privacy. The minimum
dimension of individual private open space shall be six feet.
   3.   View and Solar Orientation. Dwelling units shall be oriented to
maximize ocean views and southern exposure for private outdoor spaces and
window areas to encourage passive solar heating in the winter months.
   4.   Common Open Space. Buildings shall be oriented to create courtyards and
common open space areas that are usable by residents and not relegated to
leftover pieces of the site that are difficult to access. See Figure 2-1.
   FIGURE 2-1
COMMON OPEN SPACE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5674.jpg]
 
   C.   Parking and Circulation.
   1.   Project Entries.
   a.   Project entry areas shall provide the resident and visitor with an
overview to the project. They shall provide an open window to the project with
extensive landscaping and views to adjacent recreational facilities. Special
attention shall be given to hardscape and landscape treatments to enhance the
overall image of the project. See Figure 2-2.
   FIGURE 2-2
PROJECT ENTRY TREATMENT, AND LOCATION OF COMMON OPEN SPACE AND PLAY AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5676.jpg]
 
   b.   The principal vehicular access shall be through an entry drive rather
than a parking drive. Colored, textured paving at entry drives is strongly
encouraged.
   2.   On-site Parking and Drives.
   a.   There are generally three means of accommodating parking: parking
drives, parking courts, and garages within residential buildings. Projects with
either long, monotonous parking drives or large, undivided parking lots are not
desired. If parking within residential structures is not provided, dispersed
parking courts are the desired alternative.
   b.   Parking areas shall be visible from the residential units that use them
to the greatest degree possible.
   3.   Parking courts and drives.
   a.   A parking court shall not consist of more than two double-loaded
parking aisles (bays) adjacent to each other.
   b.   The length of a parking court shall not exceed ten stalls. See Figure
2-3.
   c.   Parking courts shall be separated from each other by dwelling units or
by a landscaped buffer not less than thirty feet wide. See Figure 2-3.
   FIGURE 2-3
PARKING AREA LAYOUT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5678.jpg]
 
   d.   Each five spaces of parking, whether in garages, carports, or open
parking areas, shall be separated from additional spaces by a landscaped bulb
not less than six feet wide containing one tree. Architectural elements, (e.g.,
trellises, porches, or stairways) may extend into these landscaped bulbs.
   4.   Garages and Carports.
   a.   Parking areas tucked under residential structures shall be enclosed
behind garage doors.
   b.   Garages with parking aprons less than twenty feet in length shall be
equipped with automatic garage door openers and roll-up doors. See Figure 2-4.
   FIGURE 2-4
GARAGE SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5680.jpg]
 
   c.   The use of carports shall require conditional use permit approval.
Where carports are utilized, they shall follow the same spacing criteria as
parking courts (subsection (C)(3) above). Carports may be incorporated with
patio walls or used to define public and private open space, but incorporating
carports into exterior project walls adjacent to streets is strongly
discouraged. See Figure 2-5.
   FIGURE 2-5
CARPORT SCREENING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5682.jpg]
 
   D.   Open Space and Landscape Areas.
   1.   The orientation of private and common open space areas shall take
advantage of available sunlight and shall be sheltered from the noise and
traffic of adjacent streets or other incompatible uses.
   2.   Common open spaces and play areas shall be conveniently located for the
majority of units. Children's play areas shall be visible from as many units as
possible. In complexes with more than forty two-bedroom units, several play
areas shall be provided throughout the complex. See Figure 2-2
   3.   Areas not covered by structures, drives, parking, or walkways shall be
appropriately landscaped with a variety of materials in compliance with
Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping).
   4.   Landscaping is used to: frame, soften, and embellish the quality of the
site; buffer units from noise or undesirable views; break up large expanses of
parking; and separate project frontage roads from public streets. Landscape
elements need vertical dimension to accomplish these objectives. Trees and tall
shrubs are needed in addition to groundcover.
   E.   Support Facilities.
   1.   The design of laundry facilities, recreation buildings, sales/lease
offices and other support structures shall be consistent with the site's
primary structures.
   2.   The most visible sides of trash enclosures shall be screened from
public view on all sides by a six-foot solid wall or fence, other than chain
link with slats. Trash enclosures should be softened with complementary
landscaping. Trash enclosures should be placed inside parking courts or at the
end of a parking bay, and should not be located in a front yard. Locations
shall be conveniently accessible for trash collection and maintenance. See
Figure 2-6.
   FIGURE 2-6
LOCATION AND DESIGN OF TRASH DISPOSAL ENCLOSURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5684.jpg]
 
   F.   Building Design. There is no specific architecture "style" proposed for
multi-family residential structures. The criteria presented here strives for
quality development through descriptions and examples of appropriate
architectural expressions, building materials, and compatibility with
surrounding neighborhood.
   1.   Facade and Roof Articulation. Changes in plane and height of walls and
roofs, and the inclusion of elements including balconies, porches, arcades,
dormers, and cross gables help to mitigate the barracks-like quality of long
flat walls and roofs. Hipped or gabled roofs covering the entire building are
preferable to mansard roofs or pitched roof segments applied at the structure's
edge. See Figure 2-7.
   FIGURE 2-7
FACADE AND ROOF ARTICULATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5686.jpg]
 
   Structures containing three or more attached dwellings in a row shall
incorporate at least one of the following (see Figure 2-8):
   FIGURE 2-8
ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS/CHANGES IN WALL PLANE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5688.jpg]
 
   a.   For each dwelling unit, at least one architectural projection not less
than two feet from the wall plane and not less than four feet wide. Projections
shall extend the full height of single story structures, at least one half the
height of a two-story structure; or
   b.   Offsets should be meaningful in relation to the size of the building: a
change in wall plane of at least three feet for at least twelve feet, for each
two units.
   2.   Scale. Because multi-family projects are usually taller than one story,
their bulk can impose on surrounding uses. The scale of these projects shall be
considered within the context of their surroundings. Structures with two
stories and more may require additional setbacks so as not to dominate the
character of the neighborhood. However, street facades limited to two stories
shall be required where such a limit reinforces the existing neighborhood
character.
   3.   Materials. Exterior materials shall be durable and require low
maintenance. Piecemeal embellishment and frequent changes in materials shall be
avoided. Natural materials including wood, stone, and brick that blend with the
natural surroundings shall be used. Exterior wall and roof colors shall
harmonize with the site and the surrounding neighborhood.
   4.   Balconies, Porches, and Patios. The incorporation of balconies,
porches, and patios is encouraged to both practically and aesthetically signal
human habitation. These elements shall be provided as essential ingredients in
creating street-level interest and to add human scale to structures. These
elements are encouraged to break up large wall masses and offset floor
setbacks. See Figure 2-9.
   FIGURE 2-9
BALCONIES, PORCHES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5690.jpg]
 
   5.   Dwelling Access. Avoid long, monotonous access balconies and corridors
that access five or more units, and instead cluster access points in groups of
four or less. Use distinctive architectural elements and materials to denote
prominent entrances.
   FIGURE 2-10
DWELLING ACCESS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5692.jpg]
 
   6.   Exterior Stairs. Simple, clean, bold projections of stairways are
encouraged to complement the architectural massing and form of the structure.
Thin-looking, open metal, prefabricated stairs are discouraged.
   7.   Carports, Garages and Accessory Structures. Carports, detached garages,
and accessory structures shall be designed as an integral part of the overall
project. They shall be similar in materials, color, and detail to the principal
structures. Prefabricated metal carports are strongly discouraged.
   8.   Mechanical and Utility Equipment. All mechanical equipment, whether
mounted on the roof or ground, shall be screened from view in compliance with
Section
17.24.120 (Screening). Utility meters and equipment shall be placed in
locations that are not exposed to view from the street. Screening devices shall
be compatible with the architecture and color of the adjacent structures. See
Figure 2-11.
   FIGURE 2-11
SCREENING OF OUTDOOR EQUIPMENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5694.jpg]
 
   9.   Roof Materials. Roof surfacing materials shall be selected to help new
buildings blend with their surroundings. Brightly-colored roofing materials
that make the buildings stand out shall be avoided.
   10.   Compatible Roof Shapes. Rooflines of buildings shall be designed to be
compatible with surrounding building forms. The objective in determining roof
shape is to establish a visual order to building clusters. A gable roof is
preferred over flat or shed roofs. See Figure 2-12.
   FIGURE 2-12
VARIETY IN ROOF FORMS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5696.jpg]
 
Chapter 17.12 COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
17.12.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides regulations applicable to development and new land
uses in the commercial zoning districts established by Section
17.06.020 (Zoning Districts Established).
17.12.020 Purposes of commercial zoning districts.
   The purposes of the individual commercial zoning districts and the manner in
which they are applied are as follows.
   A.   CRS (Resort Commercial) District. The CRS zoning district is intended
for areas suitable for recreational vehicle parks and visitor-serving uses. The
CRS zoning district is consistent with the resort commercial land use
classification of the general plan/local coastal plan.
   B.   CD (Downtown Commercial) District. The CD zoning district is intended
for the downtown area of the city, which includes three sub-areas. The CD
district is intended to provide: pedestrian scale uses; visitor serving uses;
mixed commercial uses, including retail, office, recreational, and cultural
uses; conservation of existing residential neighborhoods and community
commercial needs. The CD district is also intended to enhance the natural
features of the downtown area, including the Pacific coastline and the Pismo
Creek area.
   The sub-areas include:
   1.   CD-C (Central Core) District. The purpose of the CD-C district is to
provide intensive retail commercial, recreational, and cultural uses, oriented
towards pedestrian visitors.
   2.   CD-M (Mixed-Use and Resident-Serving Commercial) District. The CD-
M district is intended for locations in the downtown that are more community
serving for local residents, including food markets, drug stores, health
services, and professional offices, and for mixed use projects including
commercial, residential, hotels and motels, and other multiple-use projects.
   3.   CD-V (Visitor Services) District. The CD-V district is intended to
provide areas appropriate for a mix of visitor lodging.
   C.   CG (General Commercial) District. The CG zoning district is applied to
areas appropriate for pedestrian scale retail shopping, office, and personal
service uses. The maximum allowable floor area ratio (FAR) for commercial
development is 2.0. The CG zoning district is consistent with the commercial
land use classification of the general plan/local coastal plan.
   D.   CS (Service Commercial) District. The CS zoning district is applied to
areas appropriate for more intensive commercial and non-polluting, light
manufacturing and industrial uses. The maximum allowable floor area ratio (FAR)
for commercial development in the CS zoning district is 1.5. The CS zoning
district is consistent with the industrial land use classification of the
general plan/local coastal plan.
17.12.030 Commercial district land uses and permit requirements.
   Table 2-5 identifies the uses of land allowed by this Zoning Code in the
commercial zoning districts, and the land use permit required to establish each
use, in compliance with Section
17.06.040(B), (Zoning District Regulations).
    Note: where the last column in the tables ("See Standards in Section")
includes a section number, the regulations in the referenced section apply to
the use; however, provisions in other sections of this Zoning Code may also
apply.
   TABLE 2-5
ALLOWED USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
 LAND USE (1)   PERMIT REQUIREMENT BY DISTRICT  
                  CRS  CG  CS  CD-C  CD-M  CD-V  See standards in
                                                            Section:   
 LAND USE (1)    PERMIT REQUIREMENT BY DISTRICT  
                    CRS  CG  CS  CD-C  CD-M  CD-V  See standards in
                                                              Section:   
MANUFACTURING & PROCESSING USES   
Electronics,
equipment, and           P                    
appliance
manufacturing
Fabric product           P                    
manufacturing
Food and beverage
product                  P        CUP             
manufacturing,
small-scale
Furniture and
fixtures                 P                    
manufacturing,
cabinet shops
Handcraft
industries, small-       P        CUP             
scale
manufacturing
Laundries and dry        P                    
cleaning plants
Metal products
fabrication,             P                    
machine/welding
shops
Plastics, other
synthetics, and          P                    
rubber products
Printing and          P                        
publishing
Recycling
facilities--Large        CUP                   
collection
facilities
Recycling
facilities--       P      P     P     P       P       P           
Reverse vending
machines
Recycling
facilities--Small     P     P                     
collection
facilities
Research and             P                    
development (R&D)
Warehousing,
wholesaling and          P                    
distribution
RECREATION, EDUCATION & PUBLIC ASSEMBLY USES   
Adult businesses      P                    17.38.030
Auditoriums and       CUP      CUP     CUP     CUP         
meeting halls
Bars and night        CUP      CUP     CUP     CUP         
clubs
Clubs, lodges, and
private meeting       CUP              CUP         
halls
Health/fitness        CUP                      
facilities
Indoor amusement/
recreational          CUP      CUP                 
facilities
Libraries and               MUP     MUP     P           
museums
Outdoor commercial
recreation         CUP    CUP          CUP     CUP         
facilities
Parks and             CUP      P      P       P           
playgrounds
Private
residential                     CUP     CUP         
recreational
facilities
Recreational       P                            
vehicle (RV) parks
Religious places      CUP              CUP         
of worship
Schools               CUP                      
Studios--Art,         P            P               
photography, etc.
Theaters, motion      CUP      CUP     CUP     CUP         
picture
 RESIDENTIAL USES   
Duplexes                 P      P       CUP         
Emergency shelters P      P     P     P       P       P           
Employee housing   CUP       P      CUP             
Home occupations         P  P       P       P       17.38.070
Mixed-use             CUP   P  CUP     CUP     CUP     17.38.090
residential
Multi-family             P      CUP     CUP     17.38.120
dwellings
Residential
accessory uses and       P      P       P       17.38.150
structures
Residential care         P      P       P           
homes
Single family            P      CUP             
dwellings
RETAIL TRADE USES   
Accessory retail   P      P     P     P       P       P       17.38.020
uses
Art, antique,
collectable, and   P            P      P       CUP         
gift sales
Auto and vehicle         CUP                   
sales/rental
Auto parts sales      P     P                     
Bakeries, retail      P        P      P               
Building material
and hardware             P                    
stores
Convenience/liquor    P        P      P               
stores
Drive-in and
drive-through      (3)    CUP   (3)   (3)     (3)     (3)     17.38.060
sales
Equipment sales       CUP                      
and rentals
Furniture,
furnishings,          P     P         P               
appliances
General retail        P        P      P               
stores
Grocery stores        P        CUP     CUP     CUP         
Mobile home,
recreational          CUP                      
vehicle, and boat
sales
Outdoor retail
sales and          MUP          CUP     P           17.38.130
activities
Plant nurseries,
garden supply            P    P                   
stores
Resale                    P                                   5.11
establishment
Restaurants           P        P      P       P           
Shopping centers      CUP      CUP     CUP     CUP         
or complexes
Smoke shop                P                                   5.11
Warehouse retail      CUP                  17.38.200
stores
SERVICE / COMMERCIAL USES   
Ambulance services       P                    
Automated teller      P     P     P       P       P           
machines (ATMs)
Banks and             P        P      P               
financial services
Building materials       P                17.38.170
storage yard
Business support      P     P     P       P               
services
Car wash              CUP   P         CUP             
Check-cashing             P                                   5.11
establishment
Child day care           CUP       CUP     P       17.38.050
centers
Contractor storage       P                17.38.170
yard
Drive-in and
drive-through      (3)    (3)   (3)   (3)     (3)     (3)         
services
Equipment rental         CUP                   
Gold and silver           P                                   5.11
exchange
Kennels, animal          P                    
boarding
Lodging--Hotels,
motels, bed and       CUP      P      CUP     P       17.38.080
breakfast inns
Lodging--Vacation
clubs of 3 or                   P       P       17.38.180
fewer units
Lodging--Vacation
clubs of 4 or more                  CUP     17.38.180
units
Massage
establishment -           P                                   5.11
accessory
Massage
establishment -           CUP                                 5.11
primary
Medical clinics       P            P               
and labs
Mini-storage,
public self-             P                    
service
Offices--Ground       P        CUP         CUP         
floor
Offices--Second or    P        P      P       P           
upper floor
Parking
facilities/vehicle          CUP     CUP     CUP         
storage, privately
owned/operated
 Pawn shop               P                                   5.11
Personal services     P     P     CUP     P       P           
Public safety      P      P     P     P       P       P           
facilities
Public utility        CUP   CUP       CUP     CUP         
facilities
Repair services--     P            P       CUP         
Non-vehicular
Service stations      CUP          CUP         17.38.160
Storage, accessory    P     P     P       P       P           
Storage, outdoor         P                    
Tattoo                   P     CUP   CUP                 5.11
establishment
Telecommunications CUP    CUP   CUP   CUP     CUP     CUP     17.38.040
facilities
Vacation rentals                      P       P       P
Vehicle services--
Maintenance/minor     P     P         CUP             
repair
Vehicle services--
Major repair/body        P                    
work
Veterinary
clinics, animal          P        P           17.38.190
hospitals
 
(Ord. O-2019-007 § 1, 2, 3, 2019; Ord. O-2014-006 § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-
2014-004 § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-2010-001 § 2 (part), 2010; Ord. O-2009-001,
2008; Ord. 02-02 § 2 (Exh. 8A), 2002)
17.12.040 Commercial district general development standards.
   Subdivisions, new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land
uses and structures, shall be designed, constructed, and/or established in
compliance with the requirements in Table 2-6, in addition to the applicable
development standards in
Chapter 17.14 (Commercial District Design Standards), and Article III (Site
Planning and General Development Standards).
   TABLE 2-6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
                    Requirement by Zoning District
Development Feature CRS CG CS
                    Requirement by Zoning District
Development Feature CRS                 CG                  CS
Minimum lot size    Minimum area and width for parcels proposed in new
                    subdivisions.
                                                            10,000 sq. ft. for
                                                            non-residential
                                                            development
                    2 acres for RV park Determined by land  Density for
Lot area            site                use permit or       residential
                                        subdivision process development shall
                                                            reflect no less
                                                            than 20 dwelling
                                                            units per acre
                                                            Non-residential
                                        Determined by land  development: 75 ft.
Lot width           100 ft.             use permit or       Residential
                                        subdivision process development: No
                                                            less than 50 ft.
                    Minimum setbacks required. See
Setbacks required   Chapter 17.22 for setback measurement, allowed projections
                    into setbacks, and exceptions to required setbacks.
Front               15 ft.              10 ft.              Determined by land
                                                            use permit
Side and rear       Non-residential development: None
                    Residential development - determined by land use permit
                    25 ft. from the top of the bluff for parcels subdivided
Blufftop            before 1-23-81; as determined by geologic study elsewhere.
                    See
                    Chapter 17.32 (Ocean Fronting Development).
                                                            Non-residential
Floor Area Ratio    N.A                 2.0                 development: 0.5
(FAR)                                                       Residential
                                                            development: 0.7
                                                            Non-residential
                                                            development: 25 ft.
                                                            from site grade
Height limit (1)    25 ft. from site    35 ft. from site    Residential
                    grade               grade               development - as
                                                            specified in
                                                            Section
                                                            17.42.060(10)
Landscaping (2)     30% of site area    10% of site area    10% of site area
                                                            May be reduced up
                                                            to 50% from those
                                                            specified in
                    As required by                          Chapter 17.34.
Parking and loading Chapter 17.34                           Loading
                    (Parking and                            requirements,
                    Loading).                               ingress and egress
                                                            may be determined
                                                            by the Planning
                                                            Commission
                    As required by
Signs               Chapter 17.36
                    (Signs).
 
   Notes:
   (1) Maximum allowed height of structures, except where a height limitation
(HL), or view considerations (V) overlay district applies (Sections
17.18.040, and
17.18.060, respectively). The HL overlay applies in the following planning
areas established by the general plan: Dinosaur Caves, Freeway Foothills, North
Spyglass, Shell Beach, Spyglass, South Palisades, and Sunset Palisades. See
also
Chapter 17.20 (Height Measurement and Exceptions).
   (2) Minimum area of landscaping required, in compliance with
Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping).
                        Downtown Commercial Requirements by Zoning District
                       Subareas   
 Development Feature  CD-C  CD-M  CD-V   
                     Downtown Commercial Requirements by Zoning District
                    Subareas   
 Development        CD-C           CD-M              CD-V   
Feature  
                    5,000 sq. ft.; or
 Minimum lot area  as required by    5,000 sq. ft.
(1)                 Conditional Use
                    Permit
 Maximum density  Maximum number of dwelling units/hotel units allowed per
                    specified land area.   
                    As required by    1 unit per 1,450 sq. ft. of site area.
Residential units   Conditional Use   (For example, a 5,000 sq. ft. lot may be
                    Permit            allowed 3 units (5,000 / 1,450 = 3.45,
                                      rounded down to 3).)
Hotel & motel units 1 single-room unit per 500 sq. ft. of site area; 1 multi-
                    room suite per 800 sq. ft. of site area.
 Setbacks           Minimum setbacks required. See
required          Chapter 17.22 for setback measurement, allowed projections
                    into setbacks, and exceptions to required setbacks. (6)   
                    10 ft. where side
Front               lot line abuts    15 ft.
                    residential, none
                    otherwise. (2)
Sides (each)        None              Residential uses: 5  5 ft. minimum.
                                      ft. minimum.
                              Commercial uses:         
                                      None required.
Rear                None              Residential uses: 10 5 ft. minimum.
                                      ft. minimum
                              Commercial uses:         
                                      None required.
                    25 ft. from the top of the bluff for parcels subdivided
Blufftop            before 1-23-81; as determined by geologic study elsewhere.
                    See
                    Chapter 17.32 (Ocean Fronting Development).
 Floor Area Ratio  2.0 maximum       Residential uses:    1.25 maximum
(FAR)                               1.25 maximum
                              Commercial uses: 2.0     
                                      maximum
 Site coverage (3) 80% (8)           70%; 55% for residential uses.
 Height limit (4)  35 ft. (7)        35 ft.; 25 ft. for single-family
                                      dwellings. (7)
 Landscaping (5)   10% of site area  10% of site area, minimum.
 Parking and       As required by
loading           Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading)
 Signs           As required by
                    Chapter 17.36 (Signs)
 
   Notes:
   (1) Minimum area for parcels proposed in new subdivisions.
   (2) A minimum of fifty percent of the width of the first floor shall be
located along the front property line.
   (3) Maximum percentage of site area that may be covered with structures. See
the definition of site coverage in Article VI (Definitions).
   (4) Maximum allowed height of structures, except where a height limitation
(HL), or view considerations (V) overlay district applies (Sections
17.18.040, and
17.18.060, respectively). The HL overlay applies in the following planning
areas established by the general plan: Dinosaur Caves, Freeway Foothills, North
Spyglass, Shell Beach, Spyglass, South Palisades, and Sunset Palisades. See
also
Chapter 17.20 (Height Measurement and Exceptions).
   (5) Minimum area of landscaping required, in compliance with
Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping).
   (6) See also Section
17.12.050(F) for setback requirements for accessory structures within the CD
districts.
   (7) See Section
17.12.050(B) for height limits on sites adjacent to the boardwalk area.
   (8) Greater site coverage may be authorized through conditional use permit
approval.
(Ord. O-2014-006 § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-2014-004 § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. 03-04
§ 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.12.050 CD district site planning and land use standards.
   The following requirements apply to development and new land uses within the
CD-C, CD-M, and CD-V zoning districts, in addition to the standards of Section
17.12.040 (Commercial District General Development Standards), and
Chapter 17.14 (Commercial District Design Standards).
   A.   Levi-Benson Property (APN 5-201-17). The site bounded by the Pismo Pier
parking lot, Cypress and Pomeroy Streets, and Hinds Avenue may meet the
landscaping requirements of this Zoning Code through the use of paseo and plaza
areas that are provided with planter areas and container plants.
   B.   Sites Adjacent to Boardwalk. Proposed development on sites adjacent to
the Boardwalk area identified in the general plan/local coastal plan shall
comply with the following requirements.
   1.   Access Dedication. Proposed development adjacent to the Boardwalk or
areas intended for the extension of the Boardwalk shall comply with the lateral
access dedication and construction requirements of Section
17.32.060 (Public Access).
   2.   Height Limits and Upper Floor Setback Requirements. Structures adjacent
to the boardwalk within the CD zoning districts be limited to a maximum height
of thirty-five ft. from site grade. Facades immediately adjacent to the
boardwalk are limited to one story no higher than twelve ft., including roofs;
additional stories may be added up to the maximum height allowed, provided that
the second and upper floors are set back the following minimum distances from
the edge of the first floor adjacent to the boardwalk:
   Second Floor: Seven to ten ft.
   Third Floor: Fourteen to twenty ft.
   Fourth Floor: Twenty-one to thirty ft.
   C.   Creekside Parcels. Development proposed on parcels located adjacent to
Pismo Creek shall comply with the following requirements.
   1.   Dedication and Improvement of Lateral Access. The approval of proposed
development on any site located along Pismo Creek from the Ocean to Highway
101, may require the dedication of a public access easement for a creekside
trail. The width of the required easement may be allowed to vary from ten feet
to twenty feet, at the sole discretion of the city. The width required for
particular segments shall be based on feasibility, the requirement that no
parcel be rendered undevelopable, and the need to obtain a harmonious and
continuous alignment for the path as a whole. All required pathway improvements
shall be installed by the developer as part of the project at the time of its
construction. Pathway improvements may consist of a variety of materials and/or
structures.
   2.   Setback of Structures from the Pismo Creek Channel. Except for public
access improvements, all structures located on parcels adjacent to Pismo Creek
shall be set back from the top of the creek bank a minimum distance of fifty
feet for parcels between Highway 101 and Dolliver Street and twenty-five feet
for parcels between Dolliver and the Pacific Ocean. A lesser setback may be
permitted if:
   a.   The minimum setback would render a parcel inaccessible or unusable for
the purpose designated by the applicable zoning district; or
   b.   A resource assessment study demonstrates that a lesser buffer will not
have adverse effects on streamside vegetation or the biotic quality of the
stream.
   In all cases, the location of the top of the creek bank shall be determined
by the city engineer.
   D.   Mixed-use projects. Mixed use projects shall comply with the
requirements of Section
17.38.090 (Mixed Use Projects).
   E.   Requirements for pedestrian plazas. A pedestrian plaza is an open space
unobstructed from ground to sky that is available for use by the public for
walking or seating.
   1.   Applicability. The following proposed projects shall be required to
incorporate a pedestrian plaza:
   a.   Any visitor-serving commercial development fronting Cypress Street or
the ocean, except that projects on ocean-fronting parcels which construct a
boardwalk are exempt from this requirement.
   b.   Any commercial development on a lot over five thousand square feet in
area located within the CD-C, and CD-M districts.
   2.   Minimum Area. A required pedestrian plaza shall be designed and
constructed with a minimum area of one hundred square feet for every five
thousand square feet of site area or portion thereof.
   3.   Ineligible Space for a Pedestrian Plaza. The following shall not
qualify as part of any required pedestrian plaza:
   a.   Portions of a site which that are not related to areas of primary
pedestrian circulation;
   b.   Pathways and entrances to buildings necessary for normal pedestrian
circulation; and
   c.   Areas identified for exclusive use by employees or by business
customers, such as outdoor dining areas or lobbies.
   4.   Design Standards. The following standards shall apply to the design and
construction of required pedestrian plazas:
   a.   The design shall be an integral part of the overall project and shall
have a harmonious relationship between pedestrian circulation patterns within
the project and adjacent public sidewalks;
   b.   The design shall incorporate seating, enhanced paving materials, shade
trees, and/or trellises, lighting, and landscaping. Container plants are
appropriate for small areas;
   c.   The plaza area shall be open to the sky except for shade trellises and
roof overhangs;
   d.   The plaza shall be located either at ground level or at a maximum of
five feet above ground level as measured at the nearest street curb. The plaza
shall be accessible to the general public during normal business hours;
   e.   Decorative planters of ceramic, terra-cotta, or wood shall be
incorporated into the design of the plaza;
   f.   A visual focal point feature shall be provided in each public plaza.
This may be a sculpture, a fountain, special landscape feature, or other
distinguishing focal point;
   g.   Lighting for a plaza area shall be between 1.0 to 1.5 footcandles;
areas that must be secured shall have 2.0 footcandle of lighting; and
   h.   Additional requirements may be imposed by the commission as conditions
of approval.
   5.   Incentive Bonuses. As an encouragement for development of public
pedestrian plazas and paseos, the following bonuses shall be provided if
requested by the developer and approved by the commission:
   a.   For every two hundred square feet of public plaza or courtyard
provided, the number of on-site parking spaces required by
Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading) may be reduced by one parking space,
provided that a finding is made that adequate parking will be available to
serve the project;
   b.   For every one percent of the site area provided in public plazas or
courtyards, the maximum allowable building floor area may be increased by two
percent of the site area, provided that all Uniform Building Code requirements
are met.
   The commission may approve adjustments to the above incentives to take into
consideration site irregularities or constraints, the location of the site
within the overall downtown area, relationship of the project to adjacent
structures and uses, and any other unique attributes of the project.
   F.   Accessory Structures. The following shall apply to all accessory
buildings and structures.
   1.   Limitation on Number of Structures. No more than one accessory building
shall be permitted per parcel.
   2.   Location and Setback Requirements. Accessory structures shall not be
located adjacent to streets, sidewalks or the boardwalk, and shall comply with
the following setback requirements:
   a.   Side setbacks: Five feet in the CD-M district; none required in the CD-
C district;
   b.   Rear setbacks: Ten feet in the CD-M district; none required in the CD-
C district; and
   c.   Setbacks from other structures: a minimum of six feet from other
structures on the site.
   3.   Height limit: Fifteen feet.
   4.   Maximum floor area: One hundred twenty square feet.
   5.   Portable Structures. Portable structures shall be limited to a maximum
floor area of eighty square feet and a maximum height of eight feet.
   G.   Conversion of Visitor-Serving Lodging. The conversion of visitor-
serving lodging in the CD zoning districts to non-visitor-serving uses shall be
prohibited, unless the cost of rehabilitation is greater than fifty percent of
the market value of the structure, or the review authority determines that the
existing use can no longer be made economically viable.
   H.   Maintenance of Vacant Parcels. Vacant parcels shall be maintained free
of trash and debris.
17.12.060 CD district building design standards.
   This section provides design standards for the zoning districts that
comprise the downtown area (CD-C, CD-M and CD-V zoning districts). Project
proponents shall consult these standards in addition to the general commercial
design standards (Section
17.14.030) when proposing a project in the downtown area.
   A.   Objectives. The design standards in this section are provided in
recognition that downtown Pismo Beach is a unique place and requires special
attention to design. The objectives of these standards are as follows:
   1.   Ensure that new development, including additions and renovations of
existing structures, does not have adverse aesthetic, health, safety, or visual
impacts on adjoining properties, or the downtown area in general;
   2.   Improve the quality of physical changes throughout the downtown area;
   3.   Encourage creativity in design;
   4.   Promote a strong pedestrian orientation; and
   5.   Promote the preservation and rehabilitation of downtown's historic and
contextual building elements details, and materials;
   B.   General Design Standards.
   1.   Scale, Bulk and Form. Scale is the relationship between a proposed
building's size or volume and the size of surrounding buildings. The scale of
new buildings shall be consistent with existing buildings in the immediate
area. Designs shall incorporate details and elements (e.g., door and window
openings) that are close enough to the dimensions of the human body to be
comfortable to pedestrians.
   Development shall comply with the following standards to avoid large, box-
like buildings:
   a.   Exterior wall planes shall be articulated by varying depth and/or
direction.
   b.   Upper floors shall be stepped back from the footprint of the ground
floor.
   c.   The height of various parts or elements of a building shall be varied.
   d.   Roof planes, shapes, and pitches shall be varied.
   e.   Entryways and entry structures shall be limited to one story in height.
   f.   Appropriately sealed materials, (e.g., bricks and small tiles) shall be
used to reinforce the human scale at building entrances.
   g.   Plain walls at the ground floor level shall be avoided. Windows, wall
insets, change in materials, awnings, and plazas shall be used to create
variety.
   2.   Compatibility with Context. New development, including additions to
existing structures, shall be designed to be compatible with surrounding
buildings in terms of mass, form or shape, scale, height, colors, and
materials. The configuration and heights of new buildings shall be designed to
correlate with adjacent open spaces to allow maximum sunlight, ventilation,
protection from prevailing winds, enhanced public views, and minimum
obstruction of ocean views from adjoining structures. The height of new
structures shall allow for a transition from the height of adjacent development
to the maximum height of the proposed structure. To reduce the apparent height
of buildings, a variety of roof shapes and forms shall be incorporated. See
Figure 2-13.
   FIGURE 2-13
COMPATIBILITY WITH CONTEXT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5698.jpg]
 
   3.   Articulation of Walls and Roofs. New development, including additions
and renovations to existing buildings, shall be designed to provide
articulation in wall and roof planes. Articulation describes the degree or
manner in which a building wall or roofline is made up of distinct parts or
elements. A highly articulated wall will appear to be composed of a number of
different planes, usually made distinct by their change in direction
(projections and recesses) and/or changes in materials, colors, or textures.
Horizontal as well as vertical wall articulation shall be expressed through the
use of varied roof planes and heights, wall offsets, recessed windows and
entries, awnings, roof overhangs, upper-floor setbacks, use of color, and
changes in materials and textures. See Figure 2-14.
   FIGURE 2-14
ARTICULATION OF WALLS AND ROOFS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5700.jpg]
 
   4.   View Protection. New commercial and residential development, including
additions and renovations of existing structures, shall be designed to provide
view corridor that preserve ocean views. This may be accomplished by providing
stepbacks of upper stories; orienting structures to frame or accent prominent
views; and using balconies, decks and bay windows to make views accessible.
When rooftops of new development can be viewed from adjacent buildings, they
shall be designed to minimize detraction from views.
   C.   Prohibited Project Elements. The following features or elements are
prohibited:
   1.   Large blank, flat wall surfaces;
   2.   Square "boxlike" buildings with flat roofs;
   3.   Metal or plastic siding and highly reflective surfaces (mirrored
windows, etc.);
   4.   Mix of unrelated materials (i.e., rustic wood shingles and polished
chrome and materials applied on only a portion of a building;
   5.   Visible outdoor storage, loading areas, and equipment; and
   6.   Disjointed parking areas and awkward circulation patterns.
   D.   Special Standards for Rear Facades. Where parking areas and alleys
exist or are planned behind buildings, rear facades can be an important visual
and functional of the city's downtown. The design of rear facades for new
development, including additions and renovations of existing structures, shall
comply with the following:
   1.   Rear facades shall be designed to be consistent with the architectural
style of the building and the design of the primary facade, but shall not be
over improved. Rehabilitations of the rear facade may introduce accessory
elements typical of the main facade (e.g., awnings or light fixtures), but
shall not attempt to replicate storefronts or to add decorative embellishments
typically found only on the main facade.
   2.   Direct entrances to shops through the rear facade shall be provided
where feasible to encourage pedestrian activity and to separate walk areas from
vehicular traffic.
   3.   Awnings on the rear facade shall be consistent with awnings on the
front facade.
   4.   Identifying signs at rear entrances shall be provided to encourage the
use of the rear entrance.
   5.   Landscape improvements shall include special planting treatments at
rear facades. For existing buildings, the use of potted plants and raised
planters shall be considered where paving and lack of irrigation may prevent
normal landscape methods.
   6.   Lighting shall be added to rear facades to create a pleasant and safe
nighttime environment. See Figure 2-15.
   FIGURE 2-15
REAR ENTRY TREATMENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5702.jpg]
 
   E.   Standards for Building Additions and Renovations.
   1.   Additions to existing buildings shall be designed to be integrated with
the existing building. The new addition shall match the original in terms of
scale, architectural details, window and door styles and openings, roofline,
materials, color, and other aspects of design.
   2.   Where a large addition is developed, the entire building shall be
renovated to achieve a single, coordinated appearance. See Figure 2-16.
   3.   The introduction of new materials shall be limited so that the total
number of materials does not clutter the facade. New materials shall blend with
or complement the originals in texture, composition and color. No more than
four separate materials are permitted for walls, door and window frames, accent
trim (wood, brick, tile) and canvas awnings.
   F.   Storefront renovation. When storefronts are to be remodeled, they shall
be considered within the context of the whole building and adjacent
storefronts. New design elements that alter the architectural character of the
building or its relationship to the street are prohibited. New materials that
are different or incompatible with materials on the rest of the building are
strongly discouraged. See Figure 2-16.
   FIGURE 2-16
STOREFRONT RENOVATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5704.jpg]
 
   G.   Building Materials. Building materials add texture and color to
development and shall be coordinated with the overall architectural style of
the building so that they compliment one another and produce a coherent visual
character. The following standards apply to new development, including
additions and renovations of existing buildings:
   1.   Allowed materials for exterior walls:
   a.   Painted wood siding (horizontal and vertical);
   b.   Brick (natural earth colors only);
   c.   Stucco;
   d.   Wood trim;
   e.   Single color tile when used on bulkheads (below windows) not above
three feet in height; and
   f.   Anodized aluminum in dark colors for door and window frames.
   2.   Undesirable/discouraged materials for exterior walls:
   a.   Plastic molded imitations of any building material;
   b.   Corrugated metal or aluminum sheets;
   c.   Mirrored or metallized reflective glass;
   d.   Stucco treated as "hacienda" texture or other heavy texture;
   e.   Silver aluminum extrusions for windows and doors;
   f.   Coarsely finished "rustic" materials (wood shakes, barnwood, or stained
fir plywood);
   g.   Variegated brick, oversized brick, and white brick mortar; and
   h.   Indoor-outdoor carpeting.
   H.   Roof Design and Materials. Roof shapes and materials contribute to the
overall character and scale of a building. Roofs shall be designed to
compliment the architectural style of a building and other buildings in the
surrounding area. The following standards apply to new development, including
additions and renovations to existing buildings:
   1.   Variety shall be provided in roof heights and forms. Full roofs are
required for new buildings that utilize hip or gable forms with slopes less
than 6:12. In the CD-C zoning district, flat roofs with parapets are allowed if
compatible with adjacent buildings.
   2.   Nearly vertical roofs (A-frames) and piecemeal mansard roofs (used on a
portion of the building perimeter only) are prohibited.
   3.   All rooftop equipment shall be screened from public view. Mechanical
equipment shall be located below the highest vertical element of the building
to avoid the use of penthouse structures or other special screening devices
that may be difficult to integrate into the overall building design.
   4.   When mechanical equipment is added to an existing roof, it shall be
screened to match the architectural style and roof materials of the existing
building without giving the appearance of being added on.
   5.   Roof drains shall be designed as an integral part of the structure and
not be exposed on the exterior.
   6.   When skylights are used on sloping roofs, a flat design is required.
"Bubble" design skylights are prohibited.
   7.   Allowed materials for visible roof surfaces in new development and
additions and/or renovations to existing development include: slate, standing
metal seam, and tile in natural colors. The use of a metal roof shall require
conditional use permit approval.
   8.   Prohibited roof materials for new development and additions and/or
renovations to existing development include: corrugated metal, high contrast
and/or brightly-colored glazed tile, (except where desirable for accent
purposes) highly reflective surfaces, illuminated roofing, and wood shakes.
   I.   Doors and Windows. The following standards apply to all new
development, including additions and renovations of existing structures:
   1.   The first floor of commercial structures have sufficient areas of glass
to give an open, public character to the downtown. Storefronts shall be a
minimum of sixty percent window area and a maximum of eighty-five percent
window area.
   2.   Upper story street-wall construction shall contain a minimum of thirty-
five percent window area.
   3.   Large, continuous expanses of glass without careful detailing shall be
avoided. Glass areas shall be subdivided by mullions, or decorative millwork to
reduce the size of the glass areas and to create a more human scale.
   4.   Bay, bow, and box windows may be used along storefronts to add visual
interest to a facade by providing variety, shadow, and texture.
   5.   Lightly-tinted glass may be used to reduce solar gain; however, deeply-
tinted glass and reflective glass which stops views into the interior of
buildings shall be avoided. The reflective coefficient of any glass used shall
be less than thirty. Where tinted glass is used, the transmittance coefficient
shall be greater than thirty.
   6.   Window and door frames may be constructed of any of the following
materials: steel, anodized aluminum, wood, wood and metal, and vinyl-covered
wood. The materials and finish of the frame shall be appropriate to the overall
building character. Silver- and gold-colored aluminum frames are not allowed.
   J.   Exterior Colors. Color can dramatically affect the visual appearance of
buildings and shall be carefully considered in relation to the overall design
intent of the building. Color can also affect the apparent scale and proportion
of buildings by highlighting architectural elements (e.g., doors, windows,
fascia, cornices, lintels, and sills). The following standards apply to new
development, including additions and renovations of existing buildings:
   1.   Neutral or soft colors are preferable for large wall surfaces (light
gray, cream, beige, tan, light blue, etc.) while brighter or deeper shades
provide effective accents and trim colors (brown, dark green, maroon, white,
black, charcoal gray, etc.);
   2.   Walls of intense white color and bright yellow and oranges are not
allowed;
   3.   The color palette chosen for a building shall be compatible with the
colors of adjacent buildings, except where the colors of adjacent buildings are
not consistent with the requirements of this subsection;
   4.   Buildings shall use no more than three colors;
   5.   When brick or stone are used on a building, their natural inherent
colors shall be maintained; and
   6.   Contemporary buildings that interpret a historical building style shall
follow the traditional color schemes of the particular style.
   K.   Lighting Standards. Lighting plays a major role in establishing the
nighttime character of the downtown, especially as it relates to the pedestrian
ambiance and safety of the area. The following standards apply to new
development, including additions and renovations of existing structures:
   1.   Neon lighting may be used for building outlining and other decorative
architectural accents.
   2.   Incandescent lamps shall be used whenever possible. The use of mercury
vapor and other similar high intensity light sources is not allowed except at a
rear entrance that is not visible from the street.
   3.   All lighting shall be shielded to confine light spread within the site
boundaries.
   4.   One footcandle evenly distributed across the surface of a parking lot
is the required minimum. Walkways shall have approximately two footcandles of
illumination at the surface. Building entrances shall also be well lighted.
   L.   Awnings and Canopies. The use of awnings and canopies on buildings add
architectural interest and are encouraged throughout the downtown area. They
provide a means of breaking up large walls that otherwise may be left blank
except for window openings. Awnings also provide protection from the elements
and opportunities for small-scale, pedestrian-oriented signs. The following
standards apply to all awnings:
   1.   An encroachment permit is required for any awning that is proposed to
extend over a public right-of-way.
   2.   The design of awnings shall be compatible to the overall facade on
which they are to be placed in terms of size, shape, scale, and color. See
Figure 2-17.
   FIGURE 2-17
AWNING DESIGN COMPATIBILITY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5706.jpg]
 
   3.   On existing buildings, the size and shape of the awnings shall be
compatible with the architectural style of the building.
   4.   The highest point of a first-floor awning shall not be higher than the
midpoint of the space between the second-story window sills and the top of the
first-floor storefront windows.
   5.   The overall size and shape of an awning shall be compatible with the
size and shape of the door, window, or other feature that it is accenting. See
Figure 2-18.
   FIGURE 2-18
AWNING SCALE COMPATIBILITY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5708.jpg]
 
   6.   A minimum seven-foot vertical clearance between the sidewalk and the
lower-most portion of the awning shall be maintained. An eight-foot clearance
shall be maintained between the sidewalk and the lowest structure member of the
awning. See Figure 2-19.
   FIGURE 2-19
CLEARANCE FROM SIDEWALK
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5710.jpg]
 
   7.   Awnings shall use a single color or two-color stripes. Lettering and
trim may be of other compatible colors. Signs may be painted on awnings but are
restricted to the awning flap (valance) or to the end panels of angled or box
awnings. See Figure 2-20.
   FIGURE 2-20
SIGNS ON AWNINGS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5712.jpg]
 
   8.   Awning material shall maintain the appearance of canvas or cotton
fabric. The use of aluminum, vinyl, or back-lit awnings is not allowed. Awning
material shall be fire treated per Section 8.04.050 of the Municipal Code.
Chapter 17.14 COMMERCIAL DESIGN STANDARDS
17.14.010 Purpose of chapter.
   The commercial design standards are intended to assist property owners and
project designers in understanding the city's goals for attaining high quality
commercial development that is sensitive to the city's small town scale and
coastal environment. The standards will be used during the site plan and
architectural review process as criteria for project review.
17.14.020 Applicability.
   A.   The provisions of this chapter apply to all commercial, office, and
institutional projects (additions, remodeling, relocation, or new construction)
on a citywide basis. Project proponents shall consult both sets of design
standards when preparing development plans within these zoning districts.
   B.   The design elements of each project (including site design,
architecture, landscaping, signs, parking design) will be reviewed on a
comprehensive basis using these design standards. Other provisions of this
Zoning Code pertaining to signs, landscaping, and parking shall also be
addressed whenever applicable.
   C.   The review authority may exercise discretion in applying the standards
of this chapter to proposed projects, where the review authority determines
that a design feature proposed by the applicant as an alternative to these
standards achieves substantially the same results as these standards.
17.14.030 Overall design objectives for commercial projects.
   The design of each project shall work toward achieving the following
objectives:
   A.   Consider Pismo's small-town scale and coastal environment and
demonstrate sensitivity to these influences;
   B.   Articulate building forms and elevations to create interesting roof
lines, building shapes, and patterns of shade and shadow. Avoid box-like
structure with large flat wall planes;
   C.   Utilize landscaping to provide project amenities and to screen parking,
equipment, and storage areas;
   D.   Provide site access, parking, and circulation that is planned in a
logical, safe manner;
   E.   Consider the need for signs and their appropriate locations early in
the design process; and
   F.   Design spaces for outside equipment, trash receptacles, storage, and
loading areas in the least conspicuous part of the site.
17.14.040 Site planning standards.
   Project site planning shall comply with the following standards.
   A.   Consider adjacent development. Each development proposal shall
demonstrate consideration for the existing conditions on and off the site
including the following:
   1.   Land use and site organization of neighboring properties;
   2.   Architectural character/style of neighboring structures;
   3.   Links to adjacent development using sidewalks and shared access drives
and parking.
   4.   Existing natural features (i.e., mature trees, landforms, etc);
   5.   Opportunities to preserve or enhance views of the ocean; and
   6.   Privacy and solar access of the site and neighboring properties.
   B.   Building and parking location.
   1.   Buildings shall generally be oriented parallel to streets and shall be
placed as close to the street as required and established setbacks permit.
Buildings may be angled to create interesting juxtapositions if there is a
legitimate goal to be achieved. However, the definition of the street edge is
an important and legitimate role for buildings and this needs to be considered.
Exceptions may occur for wider setbacks from the street if a compatible use is
proposed (e.g., outdoor dining or pedestrian plaza areas) or to maintain
continuity with landscaped areas on adjacent properties.
   2.   The orientation of buildings shall respond to the pedestrian or
vehicular nature of the street. Buildings in areas with high pedestrian use
shall face on, and be directly accessible from the public sidewalk.
   3.   Commercial sites (i.e., shopping centers) shall be designed to locate a
minimum of 30 percent of the total building frontage (including pad buildings)
close to the front setback line. This siting, together with substantial
landscaping treatment, reinforces, and strengthens the overall streetscape, and
helps to screen off-street parking areas. See Figure 2-22.
   FIGURE 2-21
BUILDING PLACEMENT AT STREET CORNERS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5714.jpg]
 
   4.   Corner buildings shall have a strong tie to the setback lines of each
street. The primary mass of the building shall not be placed at an angle to the
corner. This does not preclude angled building corners or an open plaza at the
corner which are strongly encouraged.
   5.   Multiple buildings in a single project shall create a positive
functional relationship with one another. Whenever possible, multiple buildings
shall be clustered to achieve a "village" scale. This creates opportunities for
plazas and pedestrian areas while preventing long "barracks-like" rows of
buildings. When clustering is impractical, a visual link shall be established
between buildings. This link can be accomplished through the use of an arcade
system, trellis, colonnade, or through enhanced paving. See Figure 2-22.
   FIGURE 2-22
BUILDING AND PARKING LOCATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5716.jpg]
 
   6.   The visual impact of parking lots shall be minimized by locating these
facilities to a portion of the site least visible from the street and by
providing adequate screening and parking lot landscaping. Refer to Section
17.34.080 (Parking Design Guidelines).
   7.   Projects shall connect the on-site pedestrian circulation system to the
off-site public sidewalk at intervals of one connection for each one hundred
lineal feet (or fraction thereof). See Figure 2-23.
   FIGURE 2-23
PEDESTRIAN ORIENTATION OF PARKING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5718.jpg]
 
   8.   Parking areas shall be connected to building entrances by means of
enhanced paving (patterned or stamped).
   9.   Loading facilities shall not be located at the front of buildings where
they will be difficult to adequately screen from view. These facilities are
more appropriate at the rear of the site where special screening may not be
required.
   10.   Building placement shall optimize off-site views to the ocean or
nearby hills.
   11.   Commercial buildings constructed on hillsides shall step to follow the
natural terrain. Projects that significantly alter the natural slope can have a
great visual impact and are strongly discouraged.
   C.   Landscaping.
   1.   Landscaped areas shall be planned as an integral part of the overall
project and not simply located in "left over" areas of the site.
   2.   Landscaping shall be used to help define outdoor spaces, soften a
structure's appearance, and to screen parking, loading, storage, and equipment
areas.
   3.   The use of on-site pedestrian amenities (e.g., benches, shelters,
drinking fountains, lighting, and trash receptacles) is strongly encouraged.
These elements shall be provided in conjunction with on-site open spaces and be
integrated into the site plan as primary features.
   4.   In addition to the above general standards for landscaping, more
detailed design standards are provided in Section
17.30.060 (Landscape Design Standards).
   D.   On-site lighting.
   1.   Exterior lighting shall be designed to be compatible with the
architectural and landscape design of the project.
   2.   An appropriate hierarchy of lighting fixtures/structures and intensity
shall be considered when designing the lighting for the various elements of a
project (i.e., building and site entrances, walkways, parking areas, or other
areas of the site). To achieve the desired lighting level for parking and
pedestrian areas, the use of more short, low intensity fixtures is encouraged
over the use of a few tall fixtures that illuminate large areas.
   3.   The use of exterior lighting to accent a building's architecture is
encouraged. All lighting fixtures shall be properly shielded to eliminate light
and glare from impacting adjacent properties, and passing vehicles or
pedestrians. If neon tubing is used to illuminate portions of a building it
shall be concealed from view through the use of parapets, cornices, or ledges.
Small portions of exposed neon tubing may be used to add a special effect to a
building's architecture but this shall be well thought out and integrated into
the overall design of the project. See Figure 2-24.
   FIGURE 2-24
SHIELDED EXTERIOR LIGHTING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5720.jpg]
 
   E.   Screening.
   1.   Screening is a technique used to protect and separate uses and site
functions from one another for the purpose of decreasing adverse noise, wind,
or visual impacts and to provide privacy. The need for screening shall be
considered early in the design process so that screening elements (e.g., walls,
fences, berms, landscaping) can be effectively integrated into the overall
project design and not added later as an afterthought.
   2.   The method of screening shall be compatible with the adjacent structure
in terms of overall design, materials, and color.
   3.   Where screening is required at the ground level, a combination of
elements shall be considered including solid masonry walls, wood fences, berms,
and landscaping.
   F.   Refuse, storage, and equipment areas.
   1.   Refuse containers, service areas, loading docks, and similar facilities
shall be located in areas out of view from the general public and so that their
use does not interfere with on-site parking or circulation areas, and adjacent
uses, especially residential uses.
   2.   Trash storage areas that are visible from the upper stories of adjacent
structures shall have an opaque or semi-opaque horizontal cover/screen to
mitigate unsightly views. The covering structure shall be compatible with the
site's architectural style.
   3.   Utility, plumbing and electrical equipment (including electric and gas
meters, electrical panels, junction boxes, and similar facilities) shall be
located in a utility room within the structure or enclosed utility cabinets at
the rear of the structure. See Figure 2-25.
   4.   Mechanical equipment (including compressors, air conditioners, pumps,
heating and ventilating equipment, generators, solar collectors, satellite
dishes, communications equipment and similar facilities) and other types of
mechanical equipment shall be concealed from view of public streets, and
neighboring properties. See Figure 2-25. Telecommunications equipment shall
also comply with the provisions of Section
17.38.040 (Antennas, Wireless Communications Facilities).
   5.   Mechanical equipment shall not be located on the roof of a structure
unless the equipment can be hidden by building elements that are an integral
part of the building's design. See Figure 2-25.
   FIGURE 2-25
SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5722.jpg]
 
17.14.050 General architectural design standards.
   A.   Architectural Style. No predetermined architectural style or design
theme is required in the city: Pismo Beach cannot be defined by any one
architectural style. A variety of architectural characteristics adds to the
city's overall image. While variety in design is generally encouraged,
compatibility of new projects with their surroundings shall be a priority.
   B.   Neighborhood Compatibility. In designing a building, it is important to
analyze the areas surrounding the building site to find elements of
compatibility that can be used in the new design. Sameness, however, shall not
be a design goal. It is important for each site to both maintain its own
identity and be complementary to its surroundings. Thus, a new building can be
unique and interesting and still show respect for and compatibility with the
architectural styles in its vicinity.
   Design factors to be considered include:
   1.   Appropriate design theme;
   2.   Proportional building scale/size;
   3.   Appropriate building setback;
   4.   Harmonious colors, textures, and building materials.
   C.   Design Consistency. Designs shall demonstrate a consistent use of
colors, materials, and detailing throughout all elevations of the building.
Elevations that do not directly face a street shall not be ignored or receive
only minimal architectural treatment.
   D.   Form and Mass. Structure design shall provide a sense of human scale
and proportion. Structures shall be designed to avoid a "box-like" appearance.
Horizontal and vertical wall articulation shall be expressed through the use of
wall offsets, recessed windows and entries, awnings, full roofs with overhangs,
second floor setbacks, or covered arcades. See Figure 2-26.
   FIGURE 2-26
FORM AND MASS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5725.jpg]
 
   E.   Rooflines.
   1.   The design of a structure's roof contributes strongly to its image as a
quality, permanent structure. Structures with full-pitched roofs project a more
small town image. Structures with flat roofs and parapets tend to appear
unfinished and less permanent in their structure.
   With the exception of the downtown area, where structures are usually built
to the front and side property lines and full roofs may not be appropriate, new
freestanding structures shall incorporate full-pitched roofs whenever possible.
See Figure 2-27.
   FIGURE 2-27
ROOFLINES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5727.jpg]
 
   2.   Roofs may be gable, hip, or shed-type, but in all cases shall either be
full pitched or shall appear so from the street. Any flat portions (i.e.,
equipment wells) shall be small and not visible from streets or other areas
where the public has access. On larger structures, pitched roofs shall be
multi-planed to avoid large expanses of monotonous single-planed roofs.
   3.   Flat roofs may be considered for larger commercial structures when it
is determined that a project's overall design is amenable to flat roofs and is
otherwise consistent with the objectives of these standards. When flat roofs
are used, there shall be a screening parapet topped with a coping, cornice, or,
if determined appropriate to the project's style, a modified mansard. Mansards
shall maintain the same roof pitch as surrounding structures and shall be both
high and deep enough to create the illusion of being a true roof. Small,
steeply-pitched mansard roofs that appear "stuck-on" are discouraged.
   F.   Parapets.
   1.   Parapet walls shall be treated as an integral part of the structure
design. They shall receive architectural detailing consistent with the rest of
the facade design and shall not appear as unrelated elements intended only to
screen the roof behind.
   2.   Where a mansard roof is incorporated into the parapet design, views
from above the structure shall also be considered relative to any visible
structural support elements.
   G.   Entries. Entries shall be protected from the elements and shall create
a focus or sense of entry for the building. Wall recesses, roof overhangs,
canopies, arches, signs, and similar architectural elements shall be integral
to the building's design and call attention to the importance of the entry.
   H.   Additions to Existing Structures.
   1.   The design of a proposed addition shall follow the general scale,
proportion, massing, and detailing of the original structure, unless the size
of the addition is equal to or greater than the existing structure, and
includes alterations to the existing structure to establish a new overall
style. The addition shall be harmonious with the original structure, not a
stark contrast. See Figure 2-28.
   FIGURE 2-28
ADDITIONS TO EXISTING STRUCTURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5729.jpg]
 
   2.   The new addition shall be an interpretation of the existing building
wherein the main characteristics of the existing structure are incorporated
into the design of the addition. This may include: the extension of
architectural lines from the existing structure to the addition; repetition of
bay, window, and entrance spacing; use of harmonizing colors and materials; and
the inclusion of similar, yet distinct, architectural details (e.g., window/
door trim, lighting fixtures, tile/brick decoration, etc.)
   I.   Building Materials.
   1.   False or decorative facade treatments, wherein one or more unrelated
materials appear "stuck-on" a building, shall be avoided. Materials shall be
used honestly. Fake products which attempt to imitate real materials (e.g.,
wood, stone, brick, etc) are discouraged.
   2.   The composition of materials shall avoid giving the impression of
thinness and artificiality. Veneers shall turn corners, avoiding exposed edges.
See Figure 2-29.
   FIGURE 2-29
CHANGES IN MATERIALS OR COLORS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5731.jpg]
 
   J.   Colors.
   1.   Colors shall be compatible with the existing colors of the surrounding
neighborhood but need not duplicate existing colors. The base color(s) of the
structure shall be of light muted tones.
   2.   Accent colors shall be used carefully and be complementary to the base
color or a variation of its hue, either weaker or stronger.
   3.   The transition between base and accent colors shall relate to changes
in building materials or the change of building surface planes. Colors shall
generally not meet or change without some physical change or definition to the
surface plane.
Chapter 17.16 SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS
17.16.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This Chapter regulates development and new land uses in the special purpose
zoning districts established by Section
17.06.020 (Zoning Districts Established).
17.16.020 Purposes of special purpose zoning districts.
   The purposes of the individual special purpose zoning districts and the
manner in which they are applied are as follows.
   A.   OS (Open Space) District. The OS zoning district is intended for areas
with significant natural resources, environmentally sensitive habitats, and/or
scenic views to be protected. These areas include: hillsides, waterways,
coastal and hillside view corridors, public beaches, and parks. Open space
lands are not intended to be intensively developed with buildings or other
structures. The OS zoning district is consistent with the open space land use
classification of the general plan/local coastal plan.
   B.   PF (Public Facilities) District. The PF zoning district is applied to
areas appropriate for public and semi-public land uses. Allowable land uses may
include: parks and other public facilities, schools, public parking lots and
garages, and government offices. The PF zoning district is consistent with the
Public and Semipublic land use classification of the general plan/local coastal
plan.
17.16.030 Special purpose district land uses and permit requirements.
   Table 2-7 identifies the uses of land allowed by this Zoning Code in each
special purpose zoning district, and the land use permit required to establish
each use, in compliance with Section
17.06.040(B), (Zoning District Regulations).
    Note: where the last column in the table ("See Standards in Section")
includes a Section number, the regulations in the referenced section apply to
the use; however, provisions in other sections of this Zoning Code may also
apply.
   TABLE 2-7
ALLOWED USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS
                PERMIT REQUIREMENT BY DISTRICT  
 LAND USE (1)  PF  OS  See standards in Section:   
                                    PERMIT REQUIREMENT BY DISTRICT  
 LAND USE (1)                     PF  OS  See standards in Section:   
 RECREATION, EDUCATION & PUBLIC              
ASSEMBLY USES   
Community centers                   P            
Nature preserve interpretive        CUP          
facilities
Parks and playgrounds               P     CUP       
Residential recreational facilities P            
Schools                             P            
 RESIDENTIAL USES                          
Home occupations                       CUP   17.38.070
Residential accessory uses and         CUP   17.38.150
structures
Short-term rentals and homestays          P     17.09
Single-family dwellings                CUP       
 SERVICE / COMMERCIAL USES                 
Ambulance services                  CUP          
Day care facilities                 P        17.38.050
Parking facilities/vehicle storage, P            
public
Public buildings                    P            
Public utility or safety facilities P            
Telecommunications facilities       CUP      17.38.040
 
 KEY TO PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
 
 Symbol  Permit Requirement                   Procedure is in Section:   
P         Permitted use--Zoning Clearance         17.42.020
          required. (2)
MUP       Conditional use--Minor Use Permit       17.42.050
          required. (2)
CUP       Conditional use--Conditional Use Permit 17.42.050
          required. (2)
      Use not allowed. (See 17.02.020.D           
          regarding uses not listed.)
 
   Notes:
   (1) See Article V for definitions of each of the land uses listed.
   (2) Site Plan and Architectural Review may also be required; see Section
17.42.030.
(Ord. O-2018-007 § 3, 2018)
17.16.040 Special purpose district general development standards.
   Subdivisions, new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land
uses and structures, shall be designed, constructed, and/or established in
compliance with the requirements in Table 2-8, in addition to any other
applicable requirements of this chapter, and the development standards in
Article III (Site Planning and General Development Standards).
   TABLE 2-8
SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICT GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
                       Requirement by Zoning District   
 Development Feature  OS  PF   
                          Requirement by Zoning District   
 Development Feature    OS                          PF   
 Minimum lot size (1)    Determined through subdivision review process
 Residential density (2) 1 unit per parcel              N.A.
                           Minimum setbacks required. See
 Setbacks required     Chapter 17.22 for setback measurement, allowed
                          projections into setbacks, and exceptions to required
                          setbacks.   
Front                     20 ft.
Sides (each)              Determined by Conditional Use Permit approval
Rear                          
                          25 ft. from the top of the bluff for parcels
Blufftop                  subdivided before 1-23-81; as determined by geologic
                          study elsewhere. See
                          Chapter 17.32 (Ocean Fronting Development).
 Site coverage (3) (5)   Up to 60%; or 5,000 sq. ft. of 80%
                          the parcel, whichever is less
 Floor Area Ratio (FAR) 0.60, or up to 2,000 sq. ft.,  2.0
                          whichever is less
 Open space (minimum)    As required by Conditional Use Permit
                           Maximum allowed height of structures, except where a
                          Height Limitation (HL), or View Considerations (V)
 Height limit          overlay district applies (Sections
                          17.18.040, and
                          17.18.060, respectively). See also
                          Chapter 17.20 (Height Measurement and Exceptions).   
Residences                15 ft. from site grade         N.A.
Other structures          N.A.                           25 ft. from site grade
 Landscaping (4)         Determined by Conditional Use  10% of site area
                          Permit for the approved use.
 Parking and loading   As required by
                          Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading)
 Signs                 As required by
                          Chapter 17.36 (Signs)
 
   Notes:
   (1) Minimum area and width for parcels proposed in new subdivisions.
   (2) Maximum number of dwelling units allowed for each specified unit of
land. No more than sixty percent or five thousand sq. ft. of the site,
whichever is less, shall be utilized for residential uses including buildings,
parking, landscaping, gardening, outdoor living area, or other uses.
   (3) Maximum percentage of site area that may be covered with structures. See
the definition of site coverage in Article VI (Definitions).
   (4) Minimum area of landscaping required, in compliance with
Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping).
   (5)   Landscaping, in excess of the site coverage limitation, may be
permitted for all open space properties located on the narrow strip of land
between Shell Beach Road and Highway 101 (within the Sunset Palisades and South
Palisades Planning Area) subject to the following requirements:
      a.   For properties where residences currently exist, the owner shall be
required to obtain approval of a zone clearance for any landscaping
improvements that are proposed to extend beyond the site coverage limitation.
      b.   A request for a landscaping square footage exception may also be
applied for as part of the Conditional Use Permit (CUP) application for new
single family residences in this area.
      c.   The landscape plan shall be designed consistent with the
requirements of
Chapter 17.30.
      d.   The landscaping shall be maintained such that it does not extend up
into the view corridor of Highway 101.
      e.   Any application proposing an exception to the open space landscaping
requirements, thru the zone clearance process, shall be noticed at least ten
calendar days prior to the City's decision on the application. Notification
materials shall be submitted to the City, which includes the following:
         (1)   One set of mailing labels with first and last names and
addresses of property owners with Assessor's Parcel Numbers (APN's), for all
property within three hundred feet of the subject site.
         (2)   One set of mailing labels made out of occupant, with Assessor's
Parcel Numbers (APN's) for all property within three hundred feet of the
subject site.
(Ord. O-2010-005 § 2, 2010: Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.16.050 Special development standards for conditional uses in the OS
district.
   A.   Purpose and Applicability. This district is intended to protect natural
open space and environmentally sensitive habitats by only allowing minimal
development on parcels in these areas. Examples of uses conditionally permitted
include: greenbelts for the protection of scenic resources, facilities for
wildlife habitat, groundwater retention basins, erosion control measures, and
passive recreational uses.
   B.   Minimum Resource Protection Standards. Protection of sensitive
resources in this district shall conform to the resource management guidelines
established for siting and designing projects in an environmentally sensitive
manner, as required by the California Coastal Act, Public Resources Code
Sections 30233, 30236, and 30240.
   C.   Additional Development Standards. The following development standards
apply to specific areas and land uses within the OS zoning district in addition
to the provisions of Section
17.16.040 (Special Purpose District General Development Standards).
   1.   Butterfly Habitat.
   a.   Limitation on Use. Development proposed at the State Park property
shall not alter or remove the butterfly habitat in any manner, except where the
development is intended to correct a serious threat to human life or property.
   b.   Setbacks. All proposed development shall be located a minimum of fifty
feet from the butterfly habitat area.
   2.   Stream or Riparian Corridors. Proposed development and new land uses
within stream or riparian corridors shall be subject to the criteria provided
by general plan/LCP policies CO-14 and CO-21.
   3.   Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Areas. No development shall be
allowed within an environmentally sensitive habitat area identified by the
general plan/LCP.
   4.   Pismo Marsh. Any development or new land uses proposed within the Pismo
Marsh area shall be subject to general plan policies CO-23 through CO-27.
Chapter 17.18 OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
17.18.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides regulations for development and new land uses in the
overlay zoning districts established by 17.06.020 (Zoning Districts
Established). The overlay zoning districts established by this chapter provide
guidance for development and new land uses in addition to the standards and
regulations of the primary zoning districts, where important site,
neighborhood, or compatibility issues require particular attention in project
planning.
17.18.020 Applicability of overlay district provisions.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to proposed land uses and development
in addition to all other applicable requirements of this Zoning Code. In the
event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and any other
provision of this Zoning Code, the most restrictive shall control.
   A.   Mapping of Overlay Districts. The applicability of any overlay zoning
district to specific sites is shown by the zoning map for the specific overlay
district. The districts are found in Sections
17.18.030 through
17.18.060.
   B.   Allowed Land Uses. Except as may be otherwise provided for a specific
overlay district, any land use normally allowed in the primary zoning district
by this Article may be allowed within an overlay district, subject to any
additional requirements of the overlay district.
   C.   Permit Requirements. Except as may be otherwise provided for a specific
overlay district, development and new land uses within an overlay district
shall obtain the land use permits required by this Article for the primary
zoning district.
   D.   Development Standards. Except as may be otherwise provided for a
specific overlay district, development and new land uses within an overlay
district shall comply with all applicable requirements of the primary zoning
district.
17.18.030 Coastal appeal (CA) overlay district.
   A.   Purpose. The CA overlay district is intended to identify areas of the
city where land use permit decisions may be appealed to the Coastal Commission.
   B.   Applicability. The CA overlay district is applied to areas located
between the Pacific Ocean and the first public road parallel to the ocean, or:
   1.   Within three hundred feet of the inland extent of the mean high tide,
in compliance with the Coastal Act, Public Resources Code Section 30603(A.1);
or
   2.   Within one hundred feet of any stream, wetland, estuary, tidelands, or
public trust lands.
   The CA overlay district may be combined with any residential, commercial, or
special purpose zoning district established by Section
17.06.020 (Zoning Districts Established), as well as with any other overlay
district.
   C.   Appeals to Coastal Commission. Coastal permit appeal procedures are
described in
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals).
17.18.040 Height limitation (HL) overlay district.
   A.   Purpose. The height limitations (HL) overlay district is intended to
establish maximum height limits on development in specific areas of the city,
to protect scenic hillside, canyon, and coastal views. The HL district may also
be applied to areas where the city has determined that it is necessary to
maintain and control building bulk and scale, and its relationship to the
surrounding environment.
   B.   Applicability. Multiple HL overlay subzones are established by this
section, each indicated by a numerical suffix, (e.g. RSHL1), which identifies
the area where the height limit applies.
   C.   Height Limit. Proposed development and new land uses, and alterations
to existing structures shall not exceed the applicable height limit shown in
Table 2-9 in the areas of the city where the HL overlay is applied on the
zoning map. See also
Chapter 17.20 (Height Measurement and Exceptions).
   TABLE 2-9
HEIGHT LIMITATION OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS
Height Limitation District Height Limit   
Height Limitation District           Height Limit   
HL-1 (Sunset Palisades, Pismo Heights, 25 ft. from site grade and 15 from the
St. Andrews Tract)                     highest point of natural grade.
HL-2 (Central Sunset Palisades)        15 ft. from site grade.
                                       Up to 2 stories, provided ocean views
                                       from Highway 101 are not substantially
HL-3 (South Palisades)                 blocked; 15 ft. from the center of the
                                       building footprint on ocean fronting
                                       sites.
                                       25 ft. from site grade; or up to height
                                       of the southbound lane of Highway 101
                                       adjacent to the buildable frontage along
HL-4 ((Dinosaur Caves)                 Shell Beach Road; and up to 98.0 ft.
                                       above sea level for the North Dinosaur
                                       Cave planning area; and 118.0 ft. above
                                       sea level for the South Dinosaur Cave
                                       planning area.
                                       25 ft. from site grade, or 3 stories
HL-5 (Freeway Foothills)               above site grade, whichever is less; and
                                       structures shall not detract from views
                                       of coastal landforms.
                                       25 ft. from site grade, and not to
HL-6 (Shell Beach)                     appear to be more than 2 stories from
                                       the exterior.
HL-7 (Spyglass)                        25 ft. from site grade.
                                       25 ft., from site grade within 125 ft.
HL-8 (North Spyglass)                  of the bluff; as required by the primary
                                       zoning district elsewhere.
                                       Buildings on blufftop properties
                                       adjacent to any public lateral accessway
                                       shall reduce building bulk by setting
                                   back each floor above the first
                                       successively from the edge of the first
                                       floor nearest the bluff top; and
                                       providing variations in setbacks.
                                       25 ft. from site grade within 100 ft. of
HL-9 (Motel District)                  the bluff; as required by the primary
                                       zoning district elsewhere.
                                       Buildings on blufftop properties
                                       adjacent to any public lateral accessway
                                       shall reduce building bulk by setting
                                   back each floor above the first
                                       successively from the edge of the first
                                       floor nearest the bluff top; and
                                       providing variations in setbacks.
 
(Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.18.050 Noise (N) overlay district.
   A.   Purpose. The N overlay district is intended to protect certain noise
sensitive land uses from excessive noise levels.
   B.   Applicability. The N overlay district is applied to areas adjacent to
significant noise sources identified by the general plan, where special design
and/or construction techniques are necessary to reduce interior and exterior
noise to acceptable levels.
   C.   Application Content. Land use permit applications for noise sensitive
land uses (see the noise element of the general plan) shall include an
acoustical engineer's report indicating the level of noise impacts for the
site, and appropriate mitigation measures.
   D.   Noise Standards. Proposed development and new land uses shall be
located, designed, and constructed so that exterior and interior noise levels
shall not exceed the maximum levels shown for the applicable land use type, in
the noise element of the general plan.
17.18.055 Residential very high density (RVHD) overlay district.
   A.   Purpose. The residential very high density (RVHD) overlay district
serves to implement general plan housing element policies of providing new
housing that addresses affordable housing needs in the city by establishing
development regulations and incentives for the development of higher density
affordable housing projects.
   B.   Applicability. The standards and regulations of this chapter apply to
areas designated with an RVHD extension on the zoning map. Except as provided
in this chapter, all new structures and development, as well as alterations to
existing structures, shall comply with the requirements and review procedures
of the R-3 zoning district.
   C.   Affordable housing requirement. One hundred percent (100%) of the total
number of residential units within the project, exclusive of units added by a
density bonus awarded pursuant to state law, shall be provided at prices
affordable to moderate-income or below households for a minimum of fifty-five
(55) years.
   D.   Density. Development within the RVHD overlay zone shall provide a
minimum density of twenty (20) residential units per acre and shall not exceed
a maximum density of fifty (50) units per acre, exclusive of units added by a
density bonus awarded pursuant to state law.
   E.   General development standards.
      1.   Building heights. No building or structure shall exceed thirty-five
(35) feet in height a   bove site grade except as provided below.
         a.   Height exception. Buildings may be up to forty-five (45) feet in
height where the planning commission finds that significant public views to and
along the coast and other scenic areas are protected.
         b.   Visual study required. In order to evaluate a proposed project's
compliance with the above criteria, submittal of a visual study that
substantiates the basis for granting a height exception is required.
      2.   Minimum yard setbacks. Each lot shall have a front yard setback of
not less than ten (10) feet. Other yard setbacks shall be provided in
accordance with those otherwise required in the R-3 zone.
      3.   Maximum allowable lot coverage for all structures. Maximum allowable
lot coverage limitations shall not apply.
      4.   Maximum allowable total building floor area for all structures as a
percentage of lot area. Maximum allowable total building floor area for all
structures as a percentage of lot area shall not apply.
      5.   Minimum planting and vegetation area (as a percentage of total lot
area). A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total lot area shall consist of
planting and vegetation area.
      6.   Minimum lot area per family unit. Minimum lot area per family unit
requirements shall not apply.
   F.   Parking. Parking shall be provided pursuant to
Chapter 17.108, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements, except as provided
below.
      1.   Minimum off-street parking requirements. Minimum off-street parking
requirements, inclusive of accessible parking and guest parking, shall comply
with California Density Bonus Law (California Government Code section 65915).
      2.   Configuration. Parking spaces may be covered or uncovered and may be
provided in a tandem configuration provided no more than two vehicles shall be
placed one behind the other and both spaces shall be assigned to a single
dwelling unit.
   G.   Open/amenity space. Open/amenity space shall be provided as follows.
      1.   Amount. A minimum of sixty (60) square feet of open/amenity space
shall be provided per unit.
      2.   Type of open/amenity space. The required open/amenity space may be
provided as private open space or common amenity space.
      3.   Minimum dimensions.
         a.   Private open space. Private open space located on the ground
level (e.g., yards, decks, patios) shall have no dimension less than eight (8)
feet. Private open space located above ground level (e.g., balconies) shall
have no dimension less than six (6) feet.
         b.   Common amenity space. Common amenity space, whether provided as
outdoor or indoor space, shall have minimum horizontal dimensions of twenty
(20) feet.
      4.   Configuration.
         a.   Private open space and outdoor common amenity space.
            i.   Private open space and outdoor common amenity space shall be
unoccupied by main or accessory buildings, parking areas, driveways, and
loading areas and be open and unobstructed to the sky.
            ii.   A surface shall be provided that allows convenient use for
outdoor living and/or recreation. Such surface may be any practicable
combination of lawn, garden, flagstone, wood planking, concrete, decking, or
other serviceable, dust-free surfacing.
            iii.   Slope shall not exceed ten percent (10%).
         b.   Indoor common amenity space. Indoor common amenity space shall
consist of common areas providing services to residents such as meeting and
community rooms, community kitchen, daycare and other social service areas,
gyms and other indoor recreation areas, and computer labs/media rooms.
      5.   Accessibility.
         a.   Private open space. Private open space shall be accessible to
only one living unit by a doorway to a habitable room or hallway.
         b.   Common amenity space. Common amenity space shall be accessible to
all of the living units on the lot.
(Ord. O-2019-010 § 1, 2019)
17.18.060 View considerations (V) overlay district.
   A.   Purpose. The view considerations (V) overlay zoning district is
intended to ensure that site planning, building design, grading and landscaping
techniques will preserve and protect the character and quality of the city's
visual resources including: predominant natural landforms; coastal, canyon, and
hillside views; distinctive vegetation, and urban form.
   B.   Applicability. The V overlay district is applied to areas along city
designated scenic highways (Highways 1 and 101, Price Canyon Road), and other
major public view corridors providing significant views and vistas to areas of
public lands, beaches, and waters within the city which characterize the city's
appearance.
   C.   Definitions. The following terms and phrases are defined for the
purposes of this section.
   1.   Bluff Sight Line. The line of sight projected between the freeway sight
position and the top of the bluff, as shown in a cross-sectional view (see the
example in Figure 2-30).
   2.   Freeway Sight Position. A viewing position three feet above the nearest
travel lane of Highway 101.
   3.   Horizon Sight Line. A line of sight projected from the freeway sight
position to the horizon, as shown in a cross-sectional view.
   4.   Story Pole. Poles of wood, fiberglass, PVC, or other suitable
materials, with lengths equivalent to the height of a proposed structure. These
poles are placed on a proposed development site where the corners of a proposed
structure will be located, to allow them to be photographed for the purpose of
visualizing: the bulk and mass of the proposed structure; its appearance; and
the extent to which it will block existing views, and create other visual
impacts.
   5.   Structure Silhouette. The outline of a proposed structure superimposed
against the vertical view plane as seen from the freeway sight position.
   6.   Vertical View Plane. The rectangular area defined by the vertical area
between the horizon and bluff sight lines, and the side property lines.
   7.   Visual Simulation. A computer-generated or manually produced
illustration of the appearance of a proposed development project. These
illustrations are created by superimposing an artist's rendering or computer-
generated image of the proposed structures upon a photograph of the site in its
pre-development condition.
   FIGURE 2-30
VISUAL IMPACT ANALYSIS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5733.jpg]
 
   D.   Application Content. All applications for development and new land uses
within areas described in Subsection (F)(1) below, shall include:
   1.   Graphic Visual Impact Analysis. Cross-sectional and elevational
drawings analyzing the impacts of the proposed project on scenic views, as
shown in Figure 2-30. Overviews are measured by describing the vertical view
plane first, and then superimposing the proposed structures against the
vertical view plane. This method will provide a two-dimensional illustration of
the extent of view blockage relative to the amount of view corridor and
overview required by subsection (F)(2), below.
   2.   Visual Simulations. Visual simulations of the proposed project
illustrating how proposed structures will appear within the existing landscape
after construction. The simulations shall be accurately prepared using
computerized photo montage techniques, and/or story poles placed on the site at
the locations of proposed building corners. Simulations shall be prepared
showing the proposed project from at least the following vantage points, and
any additional vantage points required by the director:
   a.   From all streets fronting the site; and
   b.   From any location adjacent to Highway 101 where the proposed structures
may be visible.
   E.   General Development Standards. Development and new land uses, or
changes to existing structures or land uses shall comply with the following
requirements.
   1.   Protection of Existing Views. Development and new land uses, or changes
to existing structures or land uses shall not result in a change in the
elevation of the land, or the construction of any improvement, which would
significantly, materially, and irrevocably, block, alter, or impair major
views, vistas, viewsheds of major coastal landforms from designated scenic
highways, public lands, waters or viewpoints.
   2.   Side Yard View Corridors. Where side yards provide a view from the
street to the ocean or a view to attractive hills and valleys, the side yards
should be maintained as open visual access corridors the width of the required
side yard setback. These areas shall be open to the sky and free from all
visual obstructions including trees and shrubs (except for a transparent gate
or fence) from the front property line to the rear property line. Existing
structures are exempt from this requirement.
   3.   Screening. All industrial facilities, public utilities, and public
works facilities shall be screened from the view of any scenic highway to the
maximum extent feasible. See also the screening requirements of Section
17.24.120 (Screening).
   4.   Existing Topography. Proposed development, including roads, shall
minimize the alteration of the natural topography and scenic values of the
area.
   a.   Sunset Palisades Area Requirements. All development shall be
constructed on or into existing grades.
   b.   Freeway Foothills Area Requirements. All development shall be
constructed on or into existing grades; and residential units shall be
clustered and located off the tops of ridges, knolls and hummocks a sufficient
distance to retain the silhouette profile of the topographic feature.
   5.   Foothill Backdrop. The size, location, and massing of structures shall
not significantly obscure views of the scenic backdrop provided by the
foothills from scenic highways.
   6.   Landscaping. Landscaping along scenic highways designated in the
general plan/LCP shall be designed to enhance existing scenic views.
   7.   Signs. All signs visible from scenic highways shall be designed so as
to not detract from the visual quality of the area.
   8.   Existing Trees. Existing mature trees visible from scenic highways
shall be conserved whenever feasible.
   F.   Protection of ocean views in specific areas. Proposed development and
new land uses shall be designed so that their height, bulk, and scale shall not
significantly block ocean views from city designated scenic highways, and shall
be designed to provide and maintain corridor views and/or overviews of the
ocean from the scenic highways.
   1.   General Site Planning Guidelines. Proposed development shall utilize
clustered design and/or planned development concepts.
   2.   Specific Area Requirements. Proposed development within the North
Spyglass, Motel District, and Dinosaur Caves planning areas shall be designed
and sited to comply with the following requirements.
   a.   North Spyglass and Motel District Planning Area. Development proposed
on any site with more than one thousand feet of frontage on Shell Beach Road
shall be designed to maintain at minimum:
   (1) Thirty-five percent of the site frontage width in open scenic view
corridors of twenty feet or more in width;
   (2) Forty percent scenic overviews, measured in compliance with subsection D
above; and
   (3) A combination of open scenic view corridors and overview totaling forty
percent of the vertical view plane, as defined in subsection C, above.
   b.   Dinosaur Caves Planning Area. For new development within the Dinosaur
Caves planning area, no structure or landscaping shall be allowed which would
significantly impair views from Highway 101.
   3.   Placement and design of view corridors. Proposed development shall be
designed and constructed to provide view corridors in compliance with General
Plan Policy D-41, and General Plan Figure D-3. Proposed projects shall be
designed to not impair the view corridor from Highway 101.
   4.   Required Findings. The approval of a land use permit for any project
within the planning areas listed in subsection (F)(2) above shall include
specific, project- and site-based findings by the review authority based on the
application of this Section and the potential for view preservation and
enhancement on each site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5735.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5737.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5739.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5741.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5743.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5745.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5747.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5749.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5751.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5753.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5755.jpg]
 
Chapter 17.20 HEIGHT MEASUREMENT AND EXCEPTIONS
17.20.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides the required methods for measuring the height of
structures in compliance with the height limits established by this Zoning
Code, and exceptions to the height limits established by this Zoning Code.
17.20.020 Maximum height of structures.
   The height of structures shall not exceed the standard for the applicable
zoning district established by this Article, except as otherwise provided by
this chapter.
17.20.030 Height measurement.
   The maximum allowable height shall be measured as the vertical distance from
the site grade to an imaginary plane located the allowed number of feet above
and parallel to the grade. See Figure 2-31.
   FIGURE 2-31
HEIGHT MEASUREMENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5757.jpg]
 
17.20.040 Exceptions to height limits.
   The height limits of this Zoning Code may be exceeded as follows.
   A.   Non-Residential and RR Districts. Uninhabited structures (including
chimneys, cupolas, domes, elevator housings, flag poles, spires, steeples,
towers, water tanks, and similar structures), may exceed the height limits of
the applicable zoning district by a maximum of fifteen percent, subject to site
plan and architectural review, or where applicable to the primary structure,
conditional use permit approval.
   Approval of increased height shall require that the review authority
determine that the height, bulk, and scale of the proposed structure is
compatible with the adjacent area, and is consistent with view and other
general plan/LCP considerations.
   B.   Residential Districts Other Than RR. Chimneys, television antennas,
cupolas, towers, solar collectors, and similar structures not exceeding a
dimension of six feet at their base may exceed the height limits of the
applicable zoning district by a maximum of five feet. (Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B
(part)), 2003)
Chapter 17.22 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS
17.22.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides standards for the use and minimum size of setbacks.
These standards are intended to provide open areas around structures for:
visibility and traffic safety; access to and around structures; access to
natural light, ventilation and direct sunlight; separation of incompatible land
uses; and space for privacy, landscaping and recreation.
17.22.020 Setback requirements.
   All structures shall comply with the setback requirements of each zoning
district, and with any special setbacks established for specific uses by
Article III (Site Planning and General Development Regulations), except as
otherwise provided by this chapter. No portion of any structure, including
eaves or roof overhangs, shall extend beyond a property line; or into an access
easement or street right-of-way, without first securing an encroachment permit.
   A.   Infill Development Within Previously Approved Projects. Where setbacks
have been established for individual vacant parcels by a specific plan, an
approved subdivision map, or other entitlement, those setbacks shall apply to
continuing development within the approved project instead of the setbacks
required for individual zoning districts by Article II (Zoning Districts and
Allowable Land Uses).
   B.   Special Setbacks for Planned Development Projects. The council may
authorize uniform setbacks for a specific project that are different from those
required by Article II (Zoning Districts and Allowable Land Uses), through the
approval of a planned development permit (Section
17.42.060), or specific plan (
Chapter 17.46).
   C.   Riparian Setbacks. Structures, paving, and grading (other than grading
determined by the director to be necessary for slope stabilization) shall be
set back from watercourses in compliance with Section
17.24.120 (Riparian Habitat Protection).
17.22.030 Measurement of setbacks.
   Setbacks shall be measured as follows. See Figure 2-32.
   FIGURE 2-32
LOCATION AND MEASUREMENT OF SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5759.jpg]
 
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks. The front yard setback shall be measured at right
angles from the nearest point on the front property line of the parcel (or edge
of access easement on a private street) to the nearest point of the wall of the
structure, except as follows.
   1.   Flag Lots. For a parcel with a fee ownership strip extending from a
street or right-of-way to the building area of the parcel, the measurement
shall be taken from the nearest point of the wall of the structure to the point
where the access strip ("flag pole") meets the bulk of the parcel along a
continuous line, establishing a parallel setback line. See Figure 2-33.
   FIGURE 2-33
FLAG LOT SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5761.jpg]
 
   2.   Corner Lots. The measurement shall be taken from the nearest point of
the structure to the nearest point of the property line bounding the street
which provides the street address of the site access.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks. The side yard setback shall be measured at right
angles from the nearest point on the side property line of the parcel to the
nearest line of the structure; establishing a setback line parallel to the side
property line, which extends between the front and rear yards.
   C.   Street Side Yard Setbacks. The side yard on the street side of a corner
parcel shall be measured from the nearest point of the side property line
bounding the street, or the easement for a private road.
   D.   Rear Yard Setbacks. The rear yard shall be measured at right angles
from the nearest point on the rear property line to the nearest line of the
structure, establishing a setback line parallel to the rear property line,
which extends between the side yards. The rear yard on the street side of a
double-frontage parcel shall be measured from the nearest point on the rear
property line bounding the street, or the easement for a private road.
17.22.040 Exemptions from setback requirements.
   The minimum setback requirements of this Zoning Code apply to all
development and new land uses, except the following:
   A.   Fences or walls six feet or less in height above the grade of the site,
when located outside of the front setback; and
   B.   Decks, earthworks, free-standing solar devices, steps, terraces, and
other site design elements that are placed directly upon grade and do not
exceed a height of eighteen inches above the surrounding grade at any point.
17.22.050 Limitations on uses of setbacks.
   A.   Structures. Required setback areas shall not be occupied by structures
other than:
   1.   The fences and walls permitted by Section
17.24.060 (Fences, Walls, and Hedges); and
   2.   The projections into setbacks allowed by Section
17.22.060 (Allowed Projections into Setbacks).
   B.   Storage. No front or street side setback shall be used for the storage
of inoperable vehicles scrap, junk, or similar material.
   C.   Parking. Residential parking is allowable within required setback areas
only as provided by Section
17.34.030.
17.22.060 Allowed projections into setbacks.
   Attached architectural features and certain detached structures may project
beyond the wall of the structure and into the front, side and rear yard
setbacks, in compliance with the following requirements.
   A.   Architectural Features. Architectural features attached to the primary
structure may extend beyond the wall of the structure and into the front, side
and rear yard setbacks, in compliance with Table 2-10. See also Figure 2-34.
   TABLE 2-10
ALLOWED PROJECTIONS INTO SETBACKS
                         Allowed Projection into Specified Setback   
 Projecting Feature   Front Setback  Side Setback    Rear Setback   
Bay windows, and                         20% of interior
similar projecting      20% of setback   setback;           20% of setback
windows
                                 40% of street side     
                                         setback (1)
Chimney/fireplace, 6    24 in. (1)       24 in. (1)         24 in. (1)
ft. or less in breadth
Cornice, eave, awning,  30 in.           30 in. (2)         30 in. (2)
roof overhang
Deck, balcony, porch,
stairway--Cantilevered, 20% of setback   20% of interior    20% of setback
uncovered, and 30 in.                    setback;
or more above grade
                                 40% of street side     
                                         setback (1)
Deck, balcony, porch,
stairway--Uncovered,    Unlimited        Unlimited          Unlimited
and less than 30 in.
above grade
Deck, balcony, porch,   Not allowed
stairway--Covered
Other architectural     24 in. (1)       24 in. (1)         24 in. (1)
features
 
   Notes:
   (1) Projecting feature shall maintain a minimum clearance of thirty-six
inches to any side property line, and to any wall or fence constructed on the
property line.
   (2) Feature may project no closer than twenty-four inches to any property
line.
   FIGURE 2-34
EXAMPLES OF ALLOWED PROJECTIONS INTO SIDE SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5763.jpg]
 
   B.   Equipment. Air conditioning, heating, and similar equipment may extend
up to thirty inches into side and rear yards, but to no closer than thirty-six
inches to any property line. Swimming pool, hot tub, and spa equipment are
instead subject to Section
17.22.060(C), below.
   C.   Setback Requirements for Specific Structures:
   1.   Fences. See Section
17.24.060 (Fences, Walls and Hedges).
   2.   Decks, Earthworks, and Other Site Design Elements. Detached decks,
earthworks, freestanding solar devices, steps, terraces, and other site design
elements which are placed directly upon the grade, and which exceed a height of
eighteen inches above the surrounding grade at any point, shall conform to the
setback requirements of this Zoning Code for detached accessory structures.
(Note: site design elements less than eighteen inches above grade are exempt in
compliance with subsection (C)(2) above.)
   3.   Swimming Pools, Hot Tubs, Etc. Swimming pools, hot tubs, spas, and
associated equipment shall be set back a minimum of five feet from side and
rear property lines, or any larger blufftop setback requirement.
   4.   Retaining Walls.
   a.   Retaining walls four feet or less in height may be located within a
required setback.
   b.   Retaining walls greater than four feet but less than six feet in height
may be located within a required setback, provided that the exposed side of the
wall faces into the property.
   c.   Retaining walls greater than four feet in height where the exposed side
of the wall faces out from the property, and all walls greater than six feet in
height shall be subject to the same requirements as the primary structure in
the applicable zoning district. See Figure 2-35.
   FIGURE 2-35
RETAINING WALLS IN FRONT SETBACK
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5765.jpg]
 
Article III SITE PLANNING AND PROJECT DESIGN STANDARDS
Chapter 17.24 GENERAL PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT AND USE STANDARDS
17.24.010 Purpose and applicability.
   A.   Purpose of Chapter. The provisions of this chapter expand the standards
of Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-Specific
Standards) by addressing the details of site planning and project design, to
ensure that new or modified land uses and development are of appropriate
character, considerate of the community's natural resources, compatible with
existing and future development, and consistent with the general plan.
   B.   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter apply to all proposed
development and new land uses regardless of the applicable zoning district.
   1.   These standards shall be considered in combination with the standards
for each zoning district in Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses,
and Zone-Specific Standards). If there is a conflict, the standards specific to
the zoning district shall override these general standards, except where these
standards provide otherwise.
   2.   All new or modified structures and uses shall comply with all
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   3.   The planning commission may modify or delete any one or more of the
standards of this chapter as they may apply to a specific project, based upon
findings consistent with the provisions of this chapter, that the benefits of
the project outweigh the need for the strict application of the standard(s).
17.24.020 Archaeological, historical, and paleontological resources.
   A.   Surface Survey Required. Where development is proposed on a site within
the areas identified in Figures 3-1 and 3-2 as archaeologically sensitive, a
land use permit application shall include an archeological surface survey of
the site, prepared by a qualified archaeologist approved by the director.
   FIGURE 3-1
ARCHAEOLOGICALLY SENSITIVE AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5767.jpg]
 
FIGURE 3-2
ARCHAEOLOGICALLY SENSITIVE AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5769.jpg]
 
   1.   The submitted survey shall include an evaluation of the likely presence
of cultural resources and their significance based on supportable evidence, and
shall also include recommendations for all appropriate mitigation measures for
the project.
   2.   Any site which is surveyed in compliance with this section shall not be
required to be further surveyed unless a further survey is recommended by the
findings of the original survey.
   B.   Construction Practices. In the event that archaeological or
paleontological materials/ resources are discovered during any grading,
excavation, or other construction, all activities shall cease. The find shall
remain untouched, and the Department shall be notified so that a qualified
archeologist may evaluate the significance and location of discovered
materials, and make recommendations for disposition, mitigation, and/or
salvage, in compliance with State and Federal law. The developer shall pay all
costs associated with the professional investigation.
   C.   Limitations on Non-Structural Development and Use. All non-structural
development and uses which may damage or destroy archaeological resources are
prohibited unless specifically authorized by land use permit. Any such land use
permit shall contain conditions which provide for protection of any
archaeological resources. Off-road vehicle activity on the site and the
unauthorized collection of artifacts shall be prohibited.
   D.   Transfer of City-Owned Properties. The deed transferring any city-owned
property containing known significant archaeological or historical resources
shall include restrictions protecting the archaeological or historical
resources.
17.24.040 Contiguous parcel development.
   When a single development is proposed over two or more contiguous parcels in
common ownership, the parcels shall be combined through lot line adjustment or
merger in compliance with Title 16 of the Municipal Code (Subdivisions) and the
Map Act prior to issuance of a building permit. Where parcels are subject to a
bona fide lien or mortgage which would prevent merger that was of record prior
to the adoption of this requirement, the city attorney may approve appropriate
deed restrictions which would adequately tie common uses across common property
lines. The commission may exempt parcels from this requirement if the
commission finds that merger is inappropriate or unnecessary, and that
appropriate deed restrictions or easements will adequately tie common uses.
17.24.050 Design considerations.
   Proposed development and new land uses shall be designed in compliance with
the policies of the Design Element of the general plan/local coastal plan.
17.24.060 Fences, walls, and hedges.
   The following standards shall apply to the installation of all fences, walls
and hedges.
   A.   Permit Requirement. Fences and walls require site plan and
architectural review (Section
17.42.030), except where exempted from land use permit requirements by
subsection B, below.
   B.   Exemptions From Permit Requirements. The following fences and walls do
not require land use permit approval when constructed, unless they are blufftop
fences subject to the provisions of Subsection E below, but shall otherwise
comply with all applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
   1.   Fences. Fences (wood, wrought iron, chain link, and similar materials)
and walls (concrete, concrete block, brick, other masonry) are exempt from land
use permit requirements when the height of the fence or wall measured from
existing grade does not exceed:
   a.   Forty-two inches when located within a front setback or street side
setback; or
   b.   Six feet when located outside of a front or street side setback.
   See Figure 2-31 for illustration of the locations of setbacks on property.
   2.   Retaining Walls. Retaining walls (retaining earth only) are exempt from
land use permit requirements when less than twenty-four inches in height with
no surcharge, and are not required by Title 18 of the Municipal Code (Grading
and Erosion Control Ordinance) to have a grading permit.
   3.   Required Fences. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
fence or wall required by any law or regulation of the city, State, or any
State agency.
   C.   Height Limitations. Fences and walls are subject to the height
limitations in Subsection B above except as follows, and except as provided by
Subsection D below, for coastal blufftop fences. Hedges within a front yard
setback shall be limited to a height of forty-two inches.
   1.   Public Signs and Facilities, and Vegetation. The height limitations of
this section shall not apply to: trees trimmed (to the trunk) to a line at
least six feet above the elevation of the intersection; saplings or plant
species of open growth habits and not planted in the form of a hedge, which are
planted and trimmed to leave a clear and unobstructed crossview during all
seasons; supporting members of appurtenances to permanent structures existing
on the date that this Zoning Code becomes effective; and official warning signs
or signals.
   2.   Parcels With Grade Differential. Where there is a difference in the
ground level between two adjoining parcels of less than two feet, the height of
any fence/wall constructed along the common property line shall be determined
by using the finished grade of the highest contiguous parcel. See Figure 3-3.
Where there is a difference in the ground level between two adjoining parcels
of two feet or more, the height of any fence/wall on the property line shall be
determined by the director.
   FIGURE 3-3
PROPERTY LINE FENCE HEIGHT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5771.jpg]
 
   3.   Retaining Walls. Individual retaining walls shall not exceed a height
of six feet unless otherwise approved by the Director. All retained slopes
should be terraced and landscaped/screened as shown in Figure 3-4.
   FIGURE 3-4
RETAINING WALL HEIGHT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5773.jpg]
 
   D.   Fence Design. Perimeter fences/walls adjacent to public rights-of-way
shall be articulated by providing a minimum of one, two-foot deep by five-foot
long landscaped recession for every one hundred feet of continuous wall. The
design may include an appropriate mix of materials and finish subject to the
approval of the director.
   E.   Coastal Blufftop Fences. Fences are not allowed in bluff retreat
setbacks except within the RSL district. Fences proposed in the RSL zoning
district within bluff retreat setbacks (Section
17.32.050(C)(1)) shall comply with the following requirements.
   1.   Height Limit, Opacity. Fences shall not exceed forty-two inches in
height, and shall be constructed so that ninety percent of the fence surface
area is transparent.
   2.   Readily Removable Fences Required. Fences shall be designed and sited
to allow their easy removal or relocation in order to continually maintain a
twenty-five-foot minimum setback from the top edge of the bluff. A document to
this effect, in a form approved by the city attorney, shall be recorded with
the title of the property.
   3.   Geologic Study Required. The application for site plan and
architectural review of a proposed blufftop fence shall include a site-specific
geologic study. The study shall be prepared for the proposed fence by a
qualified, registered geologist approved by the director. The report shall
assess the impact of those portions of the proposed structure which are located
within the retreat area on the stability and erosion of the bluff, and shall
propose alternative locations for the structure if the placement originally
proposed would have impacts on bluff stability or erosion.
   4.   Criteria for Approval. A fence proposed within a bluff retreat setback
shall only be approved when the fence complies with all applicable requirements
of this section and Zoning Code, and when the geologic study report finds that
the proposed fence (or alternate location, where appropriate) will not
contribute to the erosion or failure of the bluff.
   5.   Periodic Review. The building official is authorized to periodically
review all fences approved within bluff retreat setbacks to ensure that minimum
blufftop setbacks are maintained. Property owners with approved blufftop fences
shall permit periodic, pre-arranged entry by the building official to permit
these inspections.
   F.   Prohibited Materials. The use of barbed wire, electrified fence, or
razor wire fence in conjunction with any fence, wall, or hedge, or by itself
within any zoning district, is prohibited unless approved by the director or
required by any law or regulation of the city, State, or any agency thereof.
   G.   Fences Between Different Land Uses. Fences or walls may be required
between different land uses (e.g., commercial and residential, multi-family
residential and single-family residential, etc.) in compliance with Section
17.24.120 (Screening).
17.24.070 Flood hazard areas.
   Development and new land uses proposed within areas shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) as being subject to flood hazards shall comply with all applicable
provisions of
Chapter 15.44 of the Municipal Code (Flood Hazard Area Use Control).
17.24.080 Hazardous materials.
   The use, handling, storage, and transportation of hazardous substances shall
comply with all applicable State laws (Government Code Section 65850.2 and
Health and Safety Code Sections 25505, et seq.), all local hazardous waste
management plans, and all related provisions of the Municipal Code.
17.24.090 Noise.
   A.   Limitation on Development in High Noise Areas. Proposed development and
new land uses shall not be approved where the noise level caused by existing
stationary sources exceeds the standards of Table N-3 in the noise element of
the general plan or the noise levels from existing or projected transportation
noise exceeds the standards of Table N-4, unless it is determined that
effective noise mitigation measures have been incorporated into the project to
reduce noise exposure to acceptable levels, as defined by Table N-2 of the
noise element.
   B.   Standards for New Noise-Producing Uses. Development and new land uses
that will include stationary noise sources, or transportation noise sources,
which are proposed on or adjacent to lands designated for noise-sensitive uses,
shall incorporate mitigation measures so that the noise levels do not exceed
those set forth in Table N-3 of the noise element of the general plan.
17.24.100 Outdoor lighting, glare.
   All exterior lighting on private property within the city shall comply with
the requirements of this section.
   A.   Application Materials. Applications for land use permit approval for
multi-family dwellings, non-residential uses, and outdoor recreation and
athletic facilities including sport courts shall include complete photometric
plans in addition to all other information and materials required by the
department.
   B.   Lighting Standards. All new exterior lighting shall comply with the
following requirements.
   1.   Lighting shall be energy-efficient, and shielded or recessed so that
direct glare and reflections are confined to the maximum extent feasible within
the boundaries of the site, and shall be directed downward and away from
adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.
   2.   No permanently installed lighting shall blink, flash, or cast more than
1.0 foot candles of illumination on lighted areas.
   3.   All lighting fixtures shall be appropriate in scale, intensity, and
height to the use they are serving.
   4.   Security lighting shall be provided at all entrances/exits, except in
the residential zoning districts.
   5.   Exterior lighting within the V overlay zoning district shall be limited
to that necessary for safety and security, as determined by the director.
17.24.110 Radioactivity or electric disturbance.
   Any existing or proposed use that generates electrical disturbances or
produces radioactive emanations in quantities that may be considered a nuisance
or hazard shall apply the best available technology to prevent the issuance,
continuance or recurrence of any hazardous or disturbing emanations. The use or
transport of radioactive material within or through the city shall comply with
Chapter 8.24 of the Municipal Code (Radioactive Materials).
17.24.120 Riparian habitat protection.
   A.   Application Requirements--Resource Management Plan. A land use permit
application for any site which is traversed by, includes any portion of, or is
within one hundred feet of Pismo Creek, Pismo Marsh, or any other watercourse
shown as a blue line on a USGS topographic quadrangle map shall include a
biotic resources management plan. The plan shall include standards for project
development to avoid habitat disturbance. The standards specified in the plan
will be utilized to determine the scope of development.
   B.   General Habitat Protection Standards. The minimum standards that may be
specified in a biotic resources management plan shall include the following.
   1.   Provisions for the preservation of groupings of trees in which at least
ten trees with a minimum six-inch diameter (measured four and one half feet
above natural grade) will be retained.
   2.   Provisions for the removal of plants from the habitat areas which are
diseased or present public safety hazards. These conditions shall be certified
by a professional horticulturist or a licensed landscape architect. Plants
removed for these reasons must be replaced with at least four minimum fifteen
gallon specimens of each species.
   C.   Riparian Setbacks. Structures, paving, and grading (other than grading
determined by the director to be necessary for slope stabilization) shall be
set back from Pismo Creek, and Pismo Marsh, and any other watercourses shown as
blue lines on a USGS topographic quadrangle map, by the following minimum
distances:
   1.   Pismo Creek. The following required setbacks shall be measured from the
outer edge of riparian vegetation, or from the top of the creek bank where
there is no vegetation.
   a.   West Bank:
   (1) One hundred feet from Cypress Street northward to city limits;
   (2) Twenty-five feet from Cypress Street to the ocean.
   b.   East Bank:
   (1) One hundred feet from U.S. 101 northward to city limits;
   (2) Fifty feet from U.S. 101 to Dolliver Street;
   (3) Twenty-five feet from Dolliver to the ocean.
   2.   Pismo Marsh and Other Watercourses. The required setback shall be
measured from the outer edge of riparian vegetation, or from the top of the
creek bank where there is no vegetation. The minimum width of the creek setback
shall be one hundred feet between environmentally sensitive areas and proposed
development.
   D.   Additional Requirements. Exceptions to creek setbacks and additional
required riparian habitat protection measures are established by Policies CO-14
and CO-21 (Riparian Habitat and Pismo Creek Protection) of the conservation and
open space element of the general plan/local coastal plan.
17.24.130 Screening.
   A.   Screening Between Uses. Screening between different land uses shall be
provided as follows.
   1.   Non-residential development shall provide a six-foot high, solid
decorative masonry wall along any interior property line abutting a residential
zoning district or existing residential use, unless modified by the commission.
   2.   Multi-family residential development shall provide a six-foot high
solid wood fence, or solid decorative masonry wall, along any property line
abutting an RSL zoning district or existing single-family dwelling.
   3.   Required screening walls shall be architecturally treated on both
sides, subject to the approval of the director.
   B.   Screening of Equipment. In the RSM, RR, and all non-residential zoning
districts, all mechanical equipment (e.g., air conditioners, ducting, plumbing,
vents, and similar equipment), whether on the roof, side of structure, or
ground, shall be screened from public view. The method of screening shall be
architecturally compatible with other site development in terms of materials,
colors, shape and size. The screening design and construction shall be subject
to the approval of the director and shall blend with the design of the
structure(s) and include appropriately installed and maintained landscaping
when on the ground.
   C.   Screening of outdoor storage and trash collection areas. All areas used
for storage, or for trash collection, shall be located either within a
structure, or on the least visible portions of a site, and screened from view
by enclosure within a solid wall or fence not less than six feet in height. See
Figure 2-6.
   1.   Trash and storage areas shall be screened by landscaping, fencing,
berms or other devices integral with overall site and building design.
   2.   If visible from the upper stories of nearby structures, trash areas
shall incorporate overhead screening features such as trellises or solid roofs.
   3.   Outdoor trash storage areas subject to scavenging birds shall be
enclosed on all sides, and from above, to prevent access by birds.
Chapter 17.26 INCLUSIONARY HOUSING REQUIREMENTS AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING
INCENTIVES
17.26.010 Purpose of chapter.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to promote the public welfare, by
establishing inclusionary housing requirements and standards identified in
Section
17.26.020 (Inclusionary Housing Requirements) and increasing the production and
availability of affordable housing units, which assists in implementing the
housing element of the general plan. In addition, this chapter offers bonuses
and other incentives to developers for providing housing that is affordable to
the types of households and qualifying residents identified in Section
17.26.130 (Eligibility for Bonus and Incentives). In establishing these
inclusionary housing requirements and standards, and offering these bonuses and
other incentives, this chapter is intended to implement the requirements of
State law (Government Code Sections 65302, 65913 and 65915, et seq.) as they
may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.012 Definitions.
   A.   Affordable/Affordable Housing. Housing which can be purchased or rented
by a household with very low, low or moderate income.
   B.   Affordable Housing Agreement. A written agreement between the
developer, city and possibly additional parties which specifies the terms and
under which inclusionary housing requirements are to be met.
   C.   Affordable Housing Fund. A fund established and administered by the
city, containing in-lieu fees and other assets held and used exclusively to
increase and improve the supply of affordable housing.
   D.   Affordable Housing Project. A development project in which one hundred
percent of the dwellings to be built will be sold or rented in conformity with
the city's inclusionary housing requirements.
   E.   Affordable Housing Unit. A dwelling or dwelling unit which is built
under the provisions of
Chapter 17.26, and which meets the city's inclusionary housing requirements as
described in Section
17.26.020 of
Chapter 17.26 of the city's Zoning Code.
   F.   Building Valuation. The total value of all construction work for which
a permit is required, as determined by the building official using the Uniform
Building Code.
   G.   Commercial Project. A development project involving primarily non-
residential uses, including retail, office, service commercial, visitor serving
commercial, hotel, light industrial, and manufacturing uses, as detailed in the
Zoning Code.
   H.   Density Bonus. A density increase of up to twenty-five percent over the
otherwise maximum allowable residential density under the Zoning Code and land
use element of the General Plan as of the date of application by the developer
to the city, as provided by Government Code Section 65915(f).
   I.   Development Project. An activity for which a subdivision map or
construction permit is required, including new buildings and building additions
or remodels, but not including changes in ownership, occupancy, management or
use.
   J.   Dwelling Unit Dedication Trust. A trust established and administered by
the city, consisting of existing dwelling units irrevocably dedicated, and used
exclusively to increase and improve the supply of affordable housing.
   K.   Inclusionary Housing Requirements. The requirements set forth in
Sections
17.26.070--
17.26.120 of
Chapter 17.26 of the city's Zoning Code.
   L.   In-Lieu Fee. A fee paid to the city as an alternative to the production
of affordable housing to be used in the acquisition, construction or
rehabilitation of affordable housing.
   M.   Lower/Lower Income Households. As defined in Health and Safety Code
Section 50079.5, provided the income of such persons and families shall not
exceed eighty percent of the median income of San Luis Obispo County, adjusted
for family size and revised annually.
   N.   Market Value. The highest price a willing buyer would pay and a price a
willing seller would accept, both being fully informed and in an open market,
as determined by an appraiser or other qualified professional.
   O.   Moderate/Moderate Income Households. Those persons and families whose
incomes exceed eighty percent, but are less than, or equal to, one hundred-
twenty percent of the median income of san Luis Obispo County, adjusted for
family size and revised annually.
   P.   Real Property. Land and improvements, if any, including anything
permanently affixed to the land, such as buildings, walls, fences, and paved
areas.
   Q.   Real Property Dedication Trust. A trust established and administered by
the city, consisting of real property irrevocably dedicated, and used
exclusively to increase and improve the supply of affordable housing.
   R.   Residential Project. A development project which results in the
subdivision of land and/or the construction or conversion of dwellings,
including, but not limited to single family detached homes, apartments,
condominiums, live/work studios, mobile homes, and group housing.
   S.   Very Low/Very Low Income Households. As defined in Health and Safety
Code Section 50105, provided the income of such persons and families shall not
exceed fifty percent of the median income of San Luis Obispo County, adjusted
for family size and revised annually. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.020 Inclusionary housing requirements.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all new residential and
commercial projects within, and to be annexed to, the city.
   A.   Methods of Meeting Inclusionary Housing Requirements. New development
projects shall satisfy the inclusionary housing requirement, as specified in
Section
17.26.022 contained herein. To meet the inclusionary housing requirements, the
developer shall comply with one or more of the following methods:
   1.   Construct the required number of affordable housing units, as specified
in this chapter; or
   2.   Pay an in-lieu fee as described in this chapter; or
   3.   Dedicate existing dwelling units for affordable housing equal to or
greater than the equivalent value to the applicable in-lieu fee which would
otherwise be required by this chapter and table; or
   4.   Dedicate real property for affordable housing equal to or greater than
the equivalent value to the applicable in-lieu fee which would otherwise be
required by this chapter; or
   5.   Use a combination of the above methods subject to the approval of the
city council.
   B.   Inclusionary Housing Standards. Affordable housing units acquired or
constructed must meet inclusionary housing requirements, and must be consistent
with the affordability policies contained in the housing element of the general
plan.
   C.   Concurrent Development. The required affordable housing units shall be
acquired or constructed before, or concurrently with, market value dwelling
units, unless the developer and the city council agree within an affordable
housing agreement to an alternate development schedule. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1
(part)), 2000)
17.26.022 Applicability.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the following types and
numbers of development projects:
   A.   Residential Developments. Residential development shall provide housing
as set out below.
   Fraction units less than 0.5 shall be rounded down to the first whole number
unit, and fractional units of 0.50 percent or greater shall be rounded up to
the next higher number unit.
   For residential projects consisting of custom built dwelling units which are
to be constructed subsequently to the completion of the subdivision, building
valuation shall be determined by using the average building permit value of
five recently constructed comparable dwelling units. Under circumstances where
recent construction values cannot be used, the average value of constructed
dwelling units listed as property improvements on the assessor's roll shall be
used in calculating in-lieu fees.
   1.   For each ten residential units provide one affordable unit; or
   2.   For five or more residential units provide in-lieu fees equal to or
more than five percent of building permit value; or
   3.   For each ten residential units dedicate one used dwelling or real
property equal to or more than the applicable in-lieu fee; or
   4.   A combination of the above methods subject to city council approval;
   5.   Projects which involve subdivision of residential lots only shall be
required to either:
   a.   Dedicate a number of lots equal to ten percent of the total, or an
equivalent land area, to the city for future development of low and moderate
income housing; or
   b.   Pay in-lieu housing fees established by the city ordinance; or
   c.   A combination of the above methods subject to city council approval;
   d.   Residential projects in which the total development on the property is
more than one unit but less than twenty units shall be required to either
provide affordable units on the same percentage bases specified in item 1 or to
pay in-lieu fees as established by city ordinance. If affordable units are to
be provided, the city may permit those units to be developed elsewhere at other
appropriate sites within the city.
   e.   The percentages of this housing set aside shall apply to the total
development project and be proportionally included in annual phasing.
   B.   Commercial Developments in the City and for Annexed Properties
Designated for Commercial Use. Commercial developments in the City or to be
annexed shall:
   1.   For each five thousand sq.ft. of commercial area, provide one
affordable unit; or
   2.   For a commercial building five thousand sq.ft. or greater, provide in-
lieu fees equal to or more than two percent of building permit value; or
   3.   For each five thousand sq.ft. of commercial building provide one used
dwelling or real property equal to the value of, or more than, the applicable
in-lieu fee; or
   4.   A combination of the above methods subject to city council approval.
(Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.030 Exclusions to inclusionary housing requirements.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following types of
development projects:
   A.   Residential projects consisting of four or less lots or new dwelling
units;
   B.   New commercial projects consisting of less than five thousand square
feet of gross floor area;
   C.   Residential and commercial building additions, repairs or remodels,
provided that such work does not increase the number of existing dwelling units
in a residential project by five or more units or result in an increase in
gross floor area of five thousand square feet or more in a commercial project;
   D.   Residential conversions of less than ten dwelling units to condominiums
within any five-year period;
   E.   Commercial condominium conversions which do not result in the creation
of new spaces exceeding five thousand square feet;
   F.   Affordable housing projects;
   G.   Emergency projects, or projects which the city council determines are
necessary to protect public health and safety;
   H.   Development projects which the city council determines in its sole
discretion are essentially non-commercial and non-residential in nature, which
provide educational, social or related services to the community and which are
proposed by public agencies, foundations and other similar organizations;
   I.   Projects which replace or restore a structure damaged or destroyed by
fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster. Application for a new replacement
structure(s) shall be made within three years of date of said disaster;
   J.   Approved projects for which a construction permit was issued prior to
the effective date of this chapter and which continue to have unexpired
permits. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.040 Affordable housing units method/procedures.
   A.   Affordable Housing Unit Number Determination. In determining the number
of affordable housing units required to be constructed pursuant to Section
17.26.022. Residential projects phased over time, shall meet the inclusionary
housing requirements cumulatively. The first development phase shall be
required to meet the inclusionary housing requirements based upon the number of
affordable housing units in that phase. Each additional development phase shall
be required to meet the inclusionary housing requirements for all development
phase approve, less the number of affordable housing units already constructed
as required by this chapter and Section
17.26.022.
   B.   Timing Regarding Inclusionary Housing Requirements. The inclusionary
housing requirements contained in this chapter applicable to the construction
of affordable housing units shall be satisfied prior to the following:
   1.   The issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the first unit in a
building; or
   2.   The first building in a complex to be constructed or remodeled; or
   3.   Final map approval, for subdivisions; or
   4.   Building permit issuance, for projects for which a certificate of
occupancy is not issued; or
   5.   As otherwise agreed to by the city council as part of a tentative map,
rezoning, conditional use permit or other development approval. (Ord. 00-03 § 2
(Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.050 In-lieu fee method/procedures.
   A.   Payment of In-Lieu Fee. As an alternative to constructing a required
number of affordable housing units, the developer may, at his/her discretion,
choose to pay an in-lieu Fee to the city to meet the inclusionary housing
requirements.
   B.   Amount and Method of Paying In-Lieu Fee. The dollar amount and method
of payment of an in-lieu fee shall be as described in Section
17.26.022.
   C.   Timing Regarding Inclusionary Housing Requirements. The in-lieu fee
shall be paid, and other requirements met prior to the following, as decided by
the community development director:
   1.   The release of occupancy of the first dwelling within a residential
development; or
   2.   The final subdivision map approval, for residential subdivisions to be
built out by others; or
   3.   Occupancy for new commercial buildings or remodels; or
   4.   Building permit issuance, for projects for which a certificate of
occupancy is not issued; or
   5.   As otherwise agreed to by written agreement between the developer and
the city, with the approval of the community development director.
   D.   Affordable Housing Fund. An in-lieu fee paid and collected pursuant to
this chapter shall be deposited into an affordable housing fund. The affordable
housing fund shall be administered by the city's finance director, and shall be
used exclusively to provide funding for the provision of affordable housing and
for reasonable costs associated with the development of affordable housing, at
the discretion of the city council. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.060 Dwelling unit dedication method/procedures.
   A.   Irrevocable Offer to Dedicate Dwelling Units. As an alternative to the
construction of a required number of affordable housing units or paying an in-
lieu fee to the city to meet the inclusionary housing requirements, the
developer may make an irrevocable offer to dedicate existing dwelling units
located within three miles of the development project within the city limits
equal to, or greater in value than the applicable in-lieu fee which would
otherwise be required pursuant to Section
17.26.022. The existing dwelling unit or units shall be dedicated to the city
or to the housing provider designated by the city. Existing dwelling units must
comply with all applicable building codes before they are accepted for
dedication. In considering the dedication of dwelling units, the city council
must find that converted affordable housing units will provide equal or greater
public benefit than the construction of affordable housing units or the value
of in-lieu fees. The city council shall consider the following criteria when
making the necessary findings:
   1.   Valuation of the acquired existing dwelling units to be dedicated
relative to other methods of meeting the inclusionary housing requirements; and
   2.   Feasibility of conversion of the acquired existing dwelling units to
affordable housing units, including general plan consistency, and availability
of infrastructure.
   B.   Existing Dwelling Unit Valuation. The valuation of the existing
dwelling units shall be determined by the community development director, based
upon an appraisal made by a qualified appraiser chosen by the director.
   C.   Agreement/Timing Regarding Dwelling Unit Dedication. The dwelling unit
dedication shall be by deed or other instrument acceptable to the city and
shall be completed by recordation with the Recorder of the County of San Luis
Obispo prior to the following:
   1.   The occupancy release of the first residential unit or commercial
building in the development project; or
   2.   Prior to recordation of a final map for a residential subdivision to be
built out by others; or
   3.   Building permit issuance for a project for which a certificate of
occupancy is not issued; or
   4.   As otherwise provided by written agreement between the developer and
the city.
   D.   Dwelling Unit Dedication Trust. Existing dwelling units irrevocably
offered for dedication pursuant to this chapter, shall be phased into a
dwelling unit dedication trust. The dwelling unit dedication trust shall be
administered by the city's finance director, or a designated housing agent
approved by the city council, and shall be used exclusively to provide
affordable housing and for reasonable costs associated with the development of
affordable housing, at the discretion of the city council. Toward this goal,
the existing dwelling units may be sold, leased, traded, developed or improved.
   E.   Conversion of Rental Units. Conversion any rental units to ownership
units occurring during the period the rental controls are in effect will
require the percentage of controlled units to be offered for sale at a cost
affordable to the eligible moderate income household, and resale controlled by
the city or housing authority. This policy applies to all property for which
development application or specific plan has not been previously approved at
the time of adoption of the housing element.
   F.   Cost of Dedication. Costs associated with the dedication, including,
but not limited to appraisal, title insurance, transfer recordation and related
costs, shall be borne by the developer. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.070 Real property dedication method/procedures.
   A.   Irrevocable Offer to Dedicate Real Property. As an alternative to the
construction of a required number of affordable housing units or paying an in-
lieu fee to the city to meet the inclusionary housing requirements, the
developer may make an irrevocable offer to dedicate real property within the
city limits equal to or greater in value than the applicable in-lieu fee which
would otherwise be required pursuant to Section
17.26.022. The property shall be dedicated to the city or to a housing provider
designated by the city. In considering an offer to dedicate real property, the
city council must find that the dedication of real property will provide equal
or greater public benefit than the construction of affordable housing units or
paying in-lieu fees. The city council shall consider the following criteria in
making the necessary findings:
   1.   Valuation of the land and/or improvements to be dedicated relative to
other methods of meeting the inclusionary housing requirements;
   2.   Suitability of the land and/or improvements for housing, including
general plan conformity, size, shape, topography, and location; and
   3.   Feasibility of developing affordable housing, including general plan
consistency, and availability of infrastructure.
   B.   Real Property Valuation. The valuation of real property offered shall
be determined by the community development director, based upon an appraisal
made by a qualified appraiser chosen by the director.
   C.   Agreement/Timing Regarding Real Property Dedication. The real property
dedication shall be by deed or other instrument acceptable to the city, and
shall be completed by recordation with the Recorder of the County of San Luis
Obispo prior to the following:
   1.   The occupancy release of the first residential unit or commercial
building in the development project; or
   2.   Prior to recordation of a final map for a residential subdivision to be
built out by others; or
   3.   Building permit issuance for projects for which a certificate of
occupancy is not issued; or
   4.   As otherwise provided by written agreement between the developer and
the city.
   D.   Real Property Dedication Trust. Real property irrevocably offered for
dedication pursuant to this chapter shall be placed into a real property
dedication trust. The real property dedication trust shall be administered by
the city's finance director or a designated housing agent approved by the city
council, and shall be used exclusively to provide Affordable housing and for
reasonable costs associated with the development of affordable housing, at the
discretion of the city council toward this goal, the existing dwelling units
may be sold, leased, traded, developed or improved.
   E.   Cost of Dedication. Costs associated with the dedication, including,
but not limited to appraisal, title insurance and transfer, recordation and
related costs, shall be borne by the developer. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1
(part)), 2000)
17.26.080 Affordable housing project application.
   A.   Method of Application. An applicant proposing a development project for
which affordable housing is required shall submit a statement with a standard
planning application, describing the affordable housing project proposal. The
developer's statement shall include the following:
   1.   A brief description of the proposal including the method chosen to meet
the inclusionary housing requirements, the number, type and location of
affordable housing units, the term of affordability, a preliminary calculation
of in-lieu fees, or an offer of existing dwelling units or real property
dedication;
   2.   A description of how the proposal meets the general plan policies and
the inclusionary housing requirements;
   3.   Plans and other exhibits showing preliminary site layout, grading,
building elevation, parking and other site features, and the location of the
affordable housing units and, where applicable, the market value dwelling
units;
   4.   A description of financial assistance requested. Such financial
assistance could be in the form of a density bonus, reduced permit fees,
exceptions to development standards, or any other incentives; and
   5.   Such other information which the community development director
determines necessary to adequately evaluate the proposal.
   B.   Community Development Director Response. After receiving a developer's
required statement with a standard planning application for a development
project, the community development director shall respond to the applicant/
developer's affordable housing proposal. The city's response shall identify the
following:
   1.   The affordable housing proposal, issues and constraints;
   2.   The incentives which the community development director can support
when making a recommendation to the decision-making body; and
   3.   The procedures that are required to be followed to comply with the
inclusionary housing requirements. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.090 Affordable housing agreement.
   A.   Submittal of Affordable Housing Agreement. Applicants for an affordable
housing project subject to this chapter shall, as a condition of development
approval, prepare and submit a proposed affordable housing agreement for
approval by the community development director and city attorney. The draft
agreement shall comply with these inclusionary housing requirements, city
policies and standards, and applicable codes. Following approval and signing of
the affordable housing agreement by the parties, the final agreement shall be
recorded and relevant terms and conditions shall be recorded as a deed
restriction on those lots or affordable housing units subject to the
inclusionary housing requirements. The affordable housing agreement shall be
binding on all future owners and successors in interest.
   B.   Agreement Regarding Construction of Affordable Housing. For development
projects meeting their inclusionary housing requirements through the
construction of affordable housing units, the affordable housing agreement
shall specify at least the following:
   1.   The number and location of the affordable housing units;
   2.   The size (square footage), number of bedrooms, and design of the
affordable housing units;
   3.   The terms of affordability;
   4.   The schedule for construction of the affordable housing units;
   5.   The incentives or other financial assistance to be provided by the
city;
   6.   Where applicable, the procedures to be used for qualifying tenants or
buyers, setting rental/sales costs, renting or selling units, filling
vacancies, and managing the units; and
   7.   Such other terms and conditions requested by the city.
   C.   Agreement Regarding Payment of In-Lieu Fees. An affordable housing
agreement or agreements for existing dwelling unit or real property dedication
shall not be required for development projects which meet their inclusionary
housing requirements through the payment of in-lieu fees.
   D.   Agreements for Dwelling Unit or Real Property Dedication. For
development projects meeting their inclusionary housing requirements through
existing dwelling unit or real property dedication, the affordable housing
agreement shall specify the following: 1. The method of conveyance, schedule,
and appraisal value of the proposed dedication;
   2.   The calculation of affordable housing in-lieu fees otherwise applicable
(pursuant to Section
17.26.022) to the development project at the time of recordation;
   3.   Provide title report and insurance;
   4.   The description of the location, condition, improvements, and other
relevant factors applying to the real property; and
   5.   Such other information required by the city. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1
(part)), 2000)
17.26.100 Affordable housing eligibility.
   A.   Eligibility. Only moderate income households, low or lower income
households, shall be eligible to rent, purchase or occupy affordable housing
units developed or funded in compliance with the inclusionary housing
requirements. For sale of affordable dwelling units, the affordable housing
units shall be occupied by the owner for the entire term of the affordable
housing agreement.
   B.   Eligibility Screening. The city, or other approved housing provider
designated by the city shall screen prospective renters or buyers of the
affordable housing units. Renters or buyers of inclusionary dwelling units
shall enter into an agreement with the city, its housing authority or other
approved housing provider to comply with the inclusionary housing requirements.
Priority for purchase or rent of affordable housing units shall be offered to
applicants who have been employed in or have been residents of the city for the
previous two years and are first time home buyers. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1
(part)), 2000)
17.26.110 Affordability restrictions.
   Developers of affordable housing units for sale shall specify the
inclusionary housing requirements to be applied. The developer shall choose to
either:
   1.   Enter into an affordable housing agreement to ensure that affordability
is maintained for a period of not less than thirty years, or as otherwise
required by State law (affordable housing units shall also be subject to a
thirty-year term of affordability); or
   2.   Participate in a shared equity purchase program, as described in
Section
17.26.120. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.120 Shared equity purchase program.
   Under the shared equity purchase program, the qualified buyer of a
designated affordable housing unit shall enter into a shared equity agreement
with the city. Said agreement shall be recorded as a second trust deed against
the purchased property, at no interest. It shall secure the city's equity share
as calculated by the community development director, which shall be the decimal
percentage of the real property's value resulting from the following:
   A.   The difference between the real property's market value and the actual
price paid by the homeowner, divided by the real property's market value; or
   B.   When applicable, the amount of subsidy provided by the city to the
homeowner to purchase the real property, divided by the real property's market
value.
   Upon sale, the city's equity share shall be repaid to the city from the
proceeds of the sale, at the close of escrow. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)),
2000)
17.26.130 Eligibility for bonus and incentives.
   In order to be eligible for a density bonus and other incentives as provided
by this chapter, a proposed residential project shall:
   A.   Consist of five or more rental units;
   B.   Be designed and constructed so that at least:
   1.   Twenty percent of the total number of proposed units are for lower
income households, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 50079.5;
   2.   Ten percent of the total number of proposed units are for very low
income households, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 50105; or
   3.   Fifty percent of the total number of proposed units are for qualifying
residents (senior citizens) as defined by Section 51.2 of the Civil Code
(senior Citizens of any income level); and
   C.   Satisfy all other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code. (Ord. 00-
03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.140 Type of bonus and incentives allowed.
   A residential project that satisfies all applicable provisions of this
section shall be entitled to the following density bonus and other incentives.
If a density bonus and/or other incentives cannot be accommodated on a site due
to strict compliance with the provisions of this Zoning Code, the planning
commission is hereby authorized to waive or modify development standards as
necessary to accommodate all density bonus units and other incentives to which
the development is entitled.
   A.   Density Bonus. The density bonus allowed by this section shall consist
of a twenty-five percent increase in the number of dwelling units normally
allowed by the zoning district applicable to the site as of the date of the
project land use permit application. No single project shall be granted more
than one density bonus in compliance with this section.
   B.   Other Incentives. A qualifying housing development shall be entitled to
at least one of the concessions or incentives identified by Government Code
Section 65915(b). The commission shall approve one or more of the above
incentives, notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, unless it
makes a written finding that the additional concession or incentive is not
required in order for rents for the targeted units to be set in compliance with
Government Code Section 6591 5(c).
   1.   A reduction in the site development standards of this Zoning Code,
including, but not limited to setback, coverage, and/or parking requirements;
   2.   Approval of mixed-use zoning in conjunction with the housing project if
non-residential land uses will reduce the cost of the housing project, and the
non-residential land uses are compatible with the housing project and
surrounding development; or
   3.   Other regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the developer or
the city that will result in identifiable cost reductions. (Ord. 00-03 § 2
(Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.150 Continued availability.
   The land use permit application for the residential project shall include
the procedures proposed by the developer to maintain the continued
affordability of all lower income density bonus units as follows:
   A.   Projects with City Funding. Projects receiving a direct financial
contribution or other financial incentives from the city, or a density bonus
and at least one other concession or incentive as provided by subsection (B) of
Section
17.26.140, shall maintain the availability of all lower income density bonus
units for a minimum of thirty years, as required by Government Code Sections
6591 5(c) and 65916; or
   B.   Private Projects--Density Bonus Only. Privately-financed projects that
receive a density bonus as the only incentive from the city shall maintain the
availability of lower income density bonus units for a minimum of fifteen
years. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.160 Location and compatibility of density bonus units.
   As required by State law (Government Code Section 65915(g)), the location of
density bonus units within the qualifying housing project may be at the
discretion of the developer, and need not be in the same area of the project
where the units for the lower income households are located. However, units for
lower income households shall be reasonably dispersed throughout the project
where feasible, shall contain on average the same number of bedrooms as the
other units in the project, and shall be compatible with the design of the
other units in terms of appearance, materials, and finished quality. (Ord. 00-
03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)), 2000)
17.26.170 Processing of density bonus request.
   Proposed density bonus requests shall be included as part of a conditional
use permit application for the residential project, and shall be reviewed and
approved as follows:
   A.   Initial Review of Density Bonus Request. The community development
director shall notify the developer within ninety days of the filing of the
project land use permit application of whether the project qualifies for the
additional density;
   B.   Criteria to be Considered. Criteria to be considered in analyzing the
requested density bonus will include the availability and capacity of
infrastructure (water, sewer, roads and similar facilities), and affected
schools to accommodate the additional density;
   C.   Findings for Approval. In addition to the findings required for the
approval of land use permits under
Chapter 17.42 (Permit Approval or Disapproval) the approval of the density
bonus by the planning commission shall also require the following special
findings:
   1.   The project will not be a hazard or nuisance to the community at large
or establish a use or development inconsistent with the goals and policies of
the general plan;
   2.   The number of dwellings approved by the land use permit can be
accommodated by existing and planned infrastructure capacities;
   3.   Adequate evidence exists to indicate that the development of the
property in compliance with the permit will result in the provision of
affordable housing in a manner consistent with the purpose and intent of this
section;
   4.   In the event that the city does not grant at least one financial
concession or incentive as defined in Government Code Section 65915 in addition
to the density bonus, that additional concessions or incentives are not
necessary to ensure affordable housing costs as defined in Health and Safety
Code Section 50052.5, or for the rents for the targeted units to be set as
specified in Government Code Section 65915(c); and
   5.   There are sufficient provisions to guarantee that the units will remain
affordable in the future.
   D.   Appeals. Any decision of the planning commission under this section
maybe appealed to the city council pursuant to the provision of
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals) of the ordinance. (Ord. 00-03 § 2 (Exh. 1 (part)),
2000)
Chapter 17.28 HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT
17.28.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter establishes regulations for development within the hillside
areas of the city in order to:
   A.   Preserve and protect the views to and from hillsides in order to
maintain the identity, image and environmental quality of the city;
   B.   Ensure that hillside development is located in areas with the least
environmental and visual impact and is designed to conform with existing land
forms; and
   C.   Preserve significant features of the natural topography, including
swales, canyons, knolls, ridgelines, and rock outcrops.
17.28.020 Applicability.
   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to development proposed on
sites with a natural slope of fifteen percent or more, or sites where proposed
access will cross an area with a slope of fifteen percent or more; except that
these provisions shall not apply to existing single-family dwellings and
accessory structures within the Pismo Heights planning area, within the RSL
zoning district, on parcels recorded prior to January 23, 1981, nor shall these
provisions apply to lots where the average slope is fifteen percent or more,
but where the portion of the lot that would be under the building footprint has
an average slope of less than fifteen percent. (Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)),
2003)
17.28.030 Permit requirements.
   A.   Permit Required. Approval of a development permit or a coastal
development permit by the planning commission shall be required prior to the
issuance of building or grading permits, or tentative map approval, for all
development that is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application Content. Conditional use permit applications for hillside
projects subject to the provisions of this chapter shall include all
information and materials required by Section
17.40.040 (Application Preparation and Filing), and all additional information
and materials listed in the Instructions for Hillside Development Applications,
available from the department. (Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.28.040 Design objectives.
   Conditional use permit approval in compliance with this chapter shall
require that the review authority determine that development proposed on
hillsides has been designed to achieve the following objectives.
   A.   Preservation of natural terrain appearance. Proposed hillside
development shall preserve natural topographic features and appearances:
   1.   Through land sculpturing, to blend any constructed or altered slopes
into the natural topography;
   2.   By avoiding excessive terracing and padding of building sites;
   3.   By designing and locating structures to avoid a continuous hard skyline
effect; and
   4.   By retaining major natural skyline profiles wherever feasible.
   B.   Retention of major natural features. Proposed hillside developments
shall be designed to:
   1.   Retain major natural topographic features including canyons, drainage
swales, steep slopes, watershed areas, flood plains, view corridors, and scenic
vistas; and
   2.   Preserve and enhance prominent landmark features including rock
outcroppings, prominent trees and other vegetation, and other areas of special
natural beauty.
   C.   Limitation on grading. Proposed hillside developments shall limit the
extent of site grading through:
   1.   The design and arrangement of alternative building sites, lot sizes,
setbacks and setback variations, and limited residential densities on steeper
terrain;
   2.   The use of clustered building sites and structures, and increased
densities on more gently sloping terrain; and
   3.   The use of street designs and improvements which follow natural
contours and preserve the character of the hillside.
   D.   Landscaping. Proposed hillside developments shall provide for the
preservation and enhancement of native plant materials to protect slopes from
soil erosion and slippage, and to minimize the visibility of grading and
construction.
   E.   Building Colors and Materials. Development on the hillsides shall be
visually subordinated to the hills. Colors used on buildings and structures
shall be dark, natural colors with a light reflective value of less than forty
percent, or as approved by the planning commission. Light colors including
white, cream, and light blue shall not be allowed, nor shall the lighter or
more brilliant colors of red fired clay tile, brightly colored glazed tile, or
reflective metal be used for roofs. Development shall also be screened to the
extent possible from freeway views through the use of trees and other
landscaping materials.
   F.   Hillside View Corridors. Where side yards provide a view from the
street to the ocean or a view to hills and valleys, the side yards should be
maintained as open visual access corridors the width of the required side yard
setback. These areas shall be open to the sky and free from all visual
obstructions including trees and shrubs (except for a transparent gate or
fence) from the front property line to the rear property line. Existing
structures are exempt from this requirement. (Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)),
2003)
17.28.050 Hillside grading standards.
   Development and new land uses proposed in hillside areas shall comply with
the following requirements.
   A.   Grading on Steep Slopes Prohibited. No grading shall be allowed on
slopes greater than thirty percent. This provision shall not apply to lots
existing as of October 21, 2003 with average slopes of thirty percent or
greater, zoned for development.
   B.   Grading Standards. The overall shape, height, and grade of any cut or
fill shall be designed and constructed to blend with the existing natural
contours and character of the site terrain.
   1.   All cut and fill slopes with a vertical height of more than ten feet
shall be rounded with vertical curves from the crest of the slope and from any
surface drains constructed on the face or top of the slope.
   2.   Where two cut or fill slopes intersect, the ends of each slope shall be
horizontally rounded and blended with a minimum radius of twenty-five feet.
   3.   Where cut or fill slopes meet natural grade, the ends of each slope
shall be vertically and/or horizontally rounded and blended with the natural
contours to create the appearance of a natural slope.
   4.   The horizontal contours of any cut or fill slope in excess of one
hundred feet in horizontal length shall be curved in a continuous, undulating
fashion.
   5.   The top and toe of each slope with a vertical height of more than ten
feet shall be vertically rounded and designed in proportion to the total height
of the slope, except the toe of any slope within twenty-five feet of a
dwelling.
   C.   General Plan Requirements. Proposed hillside development shall also
comply with General Plan Policies CO-9 through CO-12. (Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B
(part)), 2003)
Chapter 17.30 LANDSCAPING
17.30.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter establishes landscape regulations that are intended to enhance
the appearance of developments, reduce heat and glare, control soil erosion,
conserve water, screen incompatible land uses, preserve the character of
neighborhoods, and improve pedestrian and vehicular traffic and safety. See
General Plan Policy CO-13.
17.30.020 Applicability.
   All proposed development shall provide and maintain landscaping in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and
Chapter 15.48 of the Municipal Code (Water-Efficient Landscape Standards and
Requirements).
17.30.030 Landscape approval requirements.
   Landscape plans shall be prepared and submitted in compliance with
Chapter 15.48 of the Municipal Code (Water-Efficient Landscape Standards and
Requirements).
17.30.040 Landscape planning requirements.
   Landscape shall be provided in the locations described in this Section in
compliance with Section
17.30.050 (Landscape Standards), in addition to any areas required by
Chapters 17.24 (General Property Development and Use Standards) and
17.38 (Standards for Specific Land Uses).
   A.   General Locations for Landscape. Landscape shall be provided in the
following locations, unless the director determines that the required landscape
is not necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter.
   1.   Setbacks. All setback areas required by this Zoning Code shall be
landscaped in compliance with this section, except where a required setback is
occupied by a sidewalk or driveway, or is enclosed and screened from public
view.
   2.   Unused Areas. All areas of a site not intended for a specific use or
purpose, including pad sites in shopping centers held for future development,
shall be landscaped.
   3.   Parking Areas. Landscape shall be located within parking areas in
compliance with Section
17.34.070(E) (Development Standards for Off-Street Parking).
   B.   Specific Zone Landscaping Requirements. Proposed development and new
land uses shall be designed, constructed and maintained with landscaped open
space areas of the minimum size shown in Table 3-1, based on the zoning
district applicable to the site. These required landscaped open space areas are
in addition to the landscaping required by subsections (A)(2) and (A)(3),
above. Additional landscaping may be required by the review authority to
provide visual relief or contrast, or to screen incompatible or obtrusive
features.
   TABLE 3-1
MINIMUM LANDSCAPED AREA BY ZONING DISTRICT
Zoning District Minimum % of Site Area Required to be Landscaped   
Zoning District Minimum % of Site Area Required to be Landscaped   
RSM               20%
RR                20%
CRS               20%
CG                10%
CS                10%
CD-C              10%
CD-M              10%
CD-V              10%
PF                10%
  
17.30.050 Landscape standards.
   Landscape areas and materials shall be designed, installed, and maintained
as provided by
Chapter 15.48 of the Municipal Code (Water-Efficient Landscape Standards and
Requirements).
17.30.060 Landscape design guidelines.
   A.   Purpose. This section provides landscape design guidelines that are
intended as a guide to assist property owners and project designers in
understanding the general plan's goals for attaining high quality development
that is sensitive to the city's unique character and climate.
   B.   Applicability. These guidelines will be used during the site plan and
architectural review process as criteria against which to review projects
requiring design approval.
   1.   The provisions of this chapter apply to all development projects
providing required landscaping, unless otherwise specified. Any addition,
relocation, or construction requiring site plan and architectural review in
compliance with Section
17.42.030 shall adhere to these guidelines where applicable.
   2.   These design guidelines may be interpreted with some flexibility in
their application to specific projects as not all design criteria may be
workable/appropriate for each project. In some circumstances, a guideline may
be relaxed in order to accomplish another, more important guideline. The
overall objectives are to ensure that the intent and spirit of the design
guidelines are followed, and to attain the best possible design within reason.
   C.   General Guidelines.
   1.   Proposed landscaping should relate to the scale of the structures on
the site and should be compatible with the character and scale of adjacent
landscaping that complies with the provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 17.30 (Landscape Standards).
   2.   Landscaping should not be used to screen or hide an otherwise
unattractive structure or other elements of the project (e.g. trash enclosures)
that might be more appropriately located in areas of the site where screening
may not be necessary.
   3.   Landscape design should accent the overall design theme through the use
of structures, arbors, and trellises that are appropriate to the particular
architectural theme of the project.
   4.   Landscape designs should generally use a three tier concept:
   a.   Hardy, low growing ground covers;
   b.   Medium height shrubs; and
   c.   Trees.
   5.   The following are common landscape design concepts that can be used to
increase the visual and functional quality of the development:
   a.   Specimen trees (minimum forty-eight inch box) used in informal
groupings or rows at major focal points (e.g. project entry, pedestrian plaza,
etc.);
   b.   Use of flowering vines both on walls and arbors;
   c.   Use of pots, vases, wall, or raised planters for accents in locations
that otherwise would be difficult to provide in-ground landscaping;
   d.   Use of planting to soften hardscape and provide shadows/patterns
against walls;
   e.   Use of distinctive plants and colors as focal points;
   f.   Use of berms, plantings, and low walls to screen parking areas while
allowing views to larger structures beyond; and
   g.   Dense landscaping to screen unattractive views and features (e.g.
storage areas, trash enclosures, freeway structures, transformers and
generators) and other project features that do not contribute to the
enhancement of the surroundings.
   6.   Landscaped areas should be separated from paved areas by a poured-in-
place concrete curb or curb-and-gutter to prevent water leakage to the pavement
area.
   7.   Existing on-site vegetation should be retained whenever possible and
new landscaping should respect and incorporate existing landscape elements.
   8.   Landscape areas should be provided in plazas, courtyards, and areas of
frequent pedestrian use. Plazas should be designed and planted to reflect an
informal place suited to the pedestrian scale.
   9.   Landscape design should reflect a variety of deciduous and evergreen
trees, shrubs, perennials, and groundcovers. Plant materials should be selected
for their structure, texture, color, ultimate growth characteristics, and sense
of unity with their surroundings.
   D.   Project Entry Landscaping. See Figure 3-5
   1.   Entries to multi-tenant projects should be designed as special
statements reflective of the character and scale of the project in order to
establish identity for tenants, visitors, and patrons. Flowering accent
plantings and specimen trees should be used to reinforce the entry statement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5775.jpg]
 
   2.   Textured paving treatments (e.g., interlocking pavers, stamped
concrete, etc.) should be used at project entries. Textures should be selected
that:
   a.   Provide a visual of transition between the street, sidewalk, and the
entry driveway;
   b.   Do not become slippery when wet; and
   c.   Are not so rough or irregular as to make walking difficult, discourage
the use of baby strollers or wheelchairs, conflict with adjacent uses, or
create noise.
   3.   Project identification signs are encouraged at entry drives. These are
subject to approval in compliance with
Chapter 17.36 (Signs).
   E.   Pedestrian Area Landscaping.
   1.   Planting next to walkways, within plazas, and adjacent to other
pedestrian spaces should include smaller species of shrubs and trees in keeping
with the intent to maintain an intimate human scale in these areas.
   2.   Pedestrian spaces should be enhanced by planting accents including
vines espaliered against wall surfaces, flower beds, window boxes, and hanging
pots with flowers and vines.
   F.   Installation of Landscaping.
   1.   Trees should be planted three to five feet from turf areas. This will
prevent over-watering of the tree, surface rooting, crown-rot, and "girdling"
of the tree trunk by maintenance equipment.
   2.   If trees are to be planted in a turf area, the following criteria
should be followed:
   a.   Only deep-rooted tree species should be used;
   b.   Turf areas around trees should be graded so that water drains away from
the tree; and
   c.   Turf irrigation should be directed away from the tree. The tree should
be irrigated by a combined bubbler/deep water pipe fixture.
   3.   The spacing of trees and shrubs should be appropriate to the species
used. Spacing should ensure unobstructed access for vehicles and pedestrians
and provide clear vision of intersections.
   4.   Plant material should conform to the following spacing criteria:
   a.   A minimum of twenty-five feet from the property corner at a street
intersection to the center of the first tree or large shrub;
   b.   A minimum of fifteen feet between the center of trees and large shrubs
to light standards and fire hydrants; and
   c.   A minimum of ten feet between the center of trees and large shrubs and
the edge of a driveway.
   5.   Tree grates should be installed around trunks where trees are planted
within sidewalks or other paved pedestrian areas.
   6.   Deciduous trees should predominate along south and west building
exposures.
17.30.070 Oak tree preservation.
   A.   Purpose. This section provides standards for the preservation of native
oak species, Quercus agrifolia, Quercus lobata, Quercus chrysolepis), in
compliance with Policy CO-13 of the conservation and open space element of the
general plan/local coastal plan.
   B.   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to all native oak
species (Quercus agrifolia, Quercus lobata, Quercus chrysolepis) measuring at
least six inches in circumference at four and one-half feet above natural
grade, except scrub oak (Quercus dumosa). The review authority shall apply
these provisions when reviewing an application for site plan and architectural
review, minor use permit, conditional use permit, planned development permit,
variance, or specific plan.
   C.   Protection Required. No person shall cut, remove, encroach into, or
remove brush from the protected zone of any oak tree, or remove or transplant
any oak tree on any public or private property within the city, unless removal
has been authorized in conjunction with the approval of a land use permit in
compliance with this section.
   1.   Exemptions. The requirements of this section do not apply to:
   a.   Dead trees, as verified by the director;
   b.   Domestic oak trees that do not exceed eight inches in diameter and are
not located within a public right-of-way, front or street side setback;
   c.   Trees damaged by storms, floods, earthquakes, fires, or other
disasters, and determined to be hazardous and in need of emergency removal or
alteration by a federal, state, county, or city official in his/her official
capacity. The department shall be notified of the emergency action at the first
reasonable opportunity;
   d.   Replacement, modification, and repair of exiting utility lines and
equipment, emergency actions, or routine maintenance activities necessary to
maintain the facilities or property of a public utility; or
   e.   Trimming of healthy oaks for fire safety purposes, as verified by the
Fire Department, and approved by the director.
   2.   Utility Projects. New construction and the replacement of existing
facilities (other than the replacement, modification or repair of existing
utility lines and equipment covered under subsection (B)(1)(a) above) shall
comply with all applicable provisions of this section.
   a.   Utilities shall be held responsible for unnecessary damage to nonexempt
oak trees.
   b.   Utilities shall notify the department five working days in advance of
any maintenance activity that may affect a nonexempt oak. As an alternative to
individual prior notification for each maintenance activity, the utility may
submit to the city an annual notification. An annual notification shall
include:
   (1)   A list of the facilities to be maintained;
   (2)   A schedule of work;
   (3)   The extent of maintenance activities; and
   (4)   A list of nonexempt oak trees that may be affected.
   c.   Utilities may take emergency action regarding nonexempt oak trees
without advance notice to the city when immediate action is required to protect
public or utility employees, prevent damage or destruction of facilities and
property, or for the prompt reinstatement of utility service after an
interruption. The utility shall notify the city of any emergency action taken
at the first reasonable opportunity.
   D.   Application Filing and Processing. Land use permit applications
proposing the removal of oak trees shall be prepared, filed, and processed in
compliance with
Chapter 17.40 (Applications--Filing and Processing), and the following
requirements.
   1.   Application Materials. The application shall include the following, in
addition to all information and materials required by
Chapter 17.40.
   a.   Oak Tree Report. An oak tree report prepared by a city-qualified
arborist, including a topographic plot plan showing the following:
   (1)   Natural grade plan indicating genus, location, diameter, orientation,
and of all trees on the site, and identifying trees that are proposed to be
removed, transplanted, or altered; and
   (2)   Finished grade plan indicating genus, location, diameter, orientation,
registration number and trees that have been planted or transplanted.
   b.   Management Plan. A management plan in compliance with Policy CO-13 of
the general plan/LCP.
   c.   Explosives Bond or Insurance. A bond and/or insurance as determined to
be necessary by the director, where work on an oak tree that is subject to this
section is proposed to involve the use of explosives.
   2.   Oak Tree Consultant Review. The director shall forward a complete land
use permit application proposing oak tree removal to a city-qualified oak tree
consultant for review and comment prior to completion of a staff report.
   E.   Findings and Decision. The review authority may approve oak tree
removal only after first finding that:
   1.   The condition or location of the oak tree or trees requires altering to
maintain or aid tree health, balance or structure;
   2.   The condition of the tree or trees with respect to disease, danger of
falling, proximity to existing structures, high pedestrian traffic areas
including parking lots, and pedestrian walkways, cannot be controlled or
remedied through reasonable preservation and/or prevention procedures and
practices; or
   3.   The removal, transplanting, alteration, or encroachment into the
protected zone of an oak tree is necessary to enable the reasonable and
conforming use of the site, which is otherwise prevented by the presence of the
tree. Reasonable use of the property shall be determined as part of the review
of the permit application.
   F.   Conditions for Altering, Transplanting, or Removal. The review
authority may impose any conditions on the permit deemed necessary and
reasonable, including any of the following.
   1.   Fencing. The fencing of the protected zone of potentially affected
trees prior to any construction activity on the site.
   2.   Bonds. Bonds and/or sureties for reforestation, monitoring and
maintenance, in compliance with Section
17.44.040 (Performance Guarantees).
   3.   Replacement. Replacement or placement of additional trees, associated
hardwood canopy, land or wildlife habitat to offset the impacts associated
with: the loss of oak trees, limbs, or roots; or encroachments into the
protected zone(s).
   4.   Monitoring. Where required, monitoring may be conducted during all
grading and construction activities, at quarterly intervals, or more frequently
if the review authority determines that site conditions warrant. Information
provided by monitoring will be used by the city in establishing realistic
mitigation measures and to ensure the future oak resources of the city.
   a.   Type of Monitoring. Monitoring shall consist of quantitative and
qualitative observations, useful in identifying stress-related responses of the
trees.
   b.   Duration. After construction, monitoring should be required for a
minimum of five years on a biannual basis, or more if warranted by site
conditions, to ensure the continued health of the trees.
   c.   Personnel. All monitoring will be done by a city-approved person or
firm and the cost borne by the applicant.
   G.   Nonliability of City. Nothing within this Section shall impose any
liability for damages, or a duty of care and maintenance upon the city, or its
officers or employees. Any person in possession and/or control of an oak tree
on public or private property shall have a duty to keep the oak trees in a
safe, healthy condition.
Chapter 17.32 OCEAN FRONTING DEVELOPMENT
17.32.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides standards for proposed development and new land uses
on parcels which border the ocean, where careful design and development
practices are necessary to preserve significant coastline features, implement
applicable provisions of the general plan/local coastal plan, and comply with
the Coastal Act.
17.32.020 Applicability.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to all development and new land uses
proposed on parcels adjacent to the ocean. In the event of any perceived
conflict between the provisions of this chapter and any other provision of this
Zoning Code, this chapter shall control.
17.32.030 Limitations on development.
   A.   Prohibition on Development Needing Protection. Proposed development
shall not be approved where the review authority determines that shoreline
protective structures will be necessary to protect the new structures at the
time of development, or within one hundred years of development.
   B.   Prohibition on New Access Stairways--Sunset Palisades. In compliance
with General Plan Policy LU-A-11, no new public or private beach stairways
shall be allowed within the Sunset Palisades planning area designated by the
general plan. If existing stairways are removed, damaged, or destroyed, they
shall not be repaired or replaced.
   C.   Public Structures. Stairs, retaining walls, fences, pipelines, and
similar public or quasi-public facilities located on coastal bluffs shall
require a conditional use permit in compliance with the general plan/local
coastal plan.
17.32.040 Application content.
   Land use permit applications for development on ocean fronting parcels shall
include the following information where applicable, in addition to all the
information required by Section
17.40.040 (Application Preparation and Filing).
   A.   Erosion Control Plan. All land use permit applications for ocean
fronting parcels shall include a site specific erosion control plan. The plan
shall be prepared by a registered engineer qualified in hydrology and soil
mechanics, and shall ensure that the development will not contribute to the
erosion or failure of any bluff face, and will eliminate or mitigate any
adverse impacts on local shoreline sand supply to the maximum extent feasible.
   B.   Geology Report. A geology report shall be required when structures are
proposed within an area between the face of the bluff, and a line described on
the blufftop by the intersection of a plane inclined at a twenty degree angle
from horizontal, passing through the toe of the bluff or cliff, or 50 feet
inland from the blufftop, whichever is greater. See Figure 3-6.
   FIGURE 3-6
AREA WHERE GEOLOGY REPORT REQUIRED
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5777.jpg]
 
   C.   Preparation and Contents of Geology Report. A required geology report
shall be prepared by a qualified, licensed engineer approved by the city, and
shall be submitted with the land use permit application for the proposed
structure. The report shall consider, describe, and analyze the following:
   1.   Cliff geometry and site topography, extending the surveying work beyond
the site as needed to depict unusual geomorphic conditions that might affect
the site;
   2.   Historic, current, and foreseeable cliff erosion, including
investigation of recorded land surveys and tax assessment records in addition
to the use of historic maps and photographs where available, and possible
changes in shore configuration and sand transport;
   3.   Geologic conditions, including soil, sediment, and rock types and
characteristics, in addition to structural features such as bedding, joints,
and faults;
   4.   Evidence of past or potential landslide conditions, the implications of
such condition for the proposed development, and the potential effects of the
development on landslide activity;
   5.   Impact of construction activity on the stability of the site and
adjacent area;
   6.   Ground and surface water conditions and variations, including
hydrologic changes caused by the development (e.g., introduction of sewage,
effluent, and irrigation water to the groundwater system, alterations to
surface drainage, and the like);
   7.   Potential erodibility of the site and mitigation measures to be used to
ensure minimized erosion problems before and after construction (i.e.,
landscape and drainage design);
   8.   Effects of marine erosion on seacliffs;
   9.   Potential effects of seismic forces resulting from a maximum credible
earthquake; and
   10.   Any other factors that might affect slope or bluff stability.
17.32.050 Site planning and project design.
   A.   Design. All development adjacent to coastal bluffs and beaches shall be
sited and designed to reduce the visual impact of bulk and scale.
   B.   Height Limits. Height limits for structures on ocean fronting parcels
are established by the primary zoning district (see Article II--Zoning
Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards) or, where
applicable, the HL (Height Limitation) overlay zoning district, Section
17.14.040.
   C.   Setbacks. Development proposed on ocean fronting parcels shall comply
with the setback requirements of the applicable primary zoning district
established in Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-
Specific Standards), except where a side or rear lot line is adjacent to a
coastal bluff, or where public access and/or recreational areas are required in
compliance with Section
17.32.060 (Public Access). Proposed development shall be set back from the top
of the bluff as provided by this subsection.
   1.   Bluff Retreat Setback Requirements. New structures shall be set back a
sufficient distance from the bluff top to be safe from bluff erosion for a
minimum of one hundred years as determined by a site-specific geology report,
prepared in compliance with Section
17.32.040(B) (Application Content--Geology Report); provided that in no case
shall the minimum setback be less than twenty-five feet.
   2.   Use of Bluff Retreat Setbacks. No development except public access
pathways and existing stairways (see Section
17.32.030(B) - Prohibition on new access stairways) shall be permitted within
the bluff retreat setbacks identified in site specific geologic reports, except
for fences in the RSL zoning district, in compliance with Section
17.24.060(E).
   3.   Access and Recreational Area Setbacks. Additional blufftop setbacks may
be required in compliance with general plan/local coastal plan policies in
specific planning areas, to accommodate public access and recreational areas,
in compliance with Section
17.32.060 (Public Access).
   4.   Boardwalk Setbacks. Structures adjacent to the boardwalk within the CD
zoning districts shall comply with the special setback requirements and height
limits established Section
17.12.050(B).
17.32.060 Public access.
   This section provides requirements for the dedication and improvement of
public access to, and along the coast, in conjunction with proposed development
and new land uses. The intent of this section is to assure public rights of
access to the coast are protected as guaranteed by the California Constitution.
Coastal access standards are also established by this section to satisfy the
intent of the California Coastal Act.
   A.   Access Defined.
   1.   Lateral access: Provides for public access and use along the shoreline.
   2.   Vertical access: Provides access from the first public road to the
shore, or perpendicular to the shore.
   B.   Protection of existing coastal access. Development may not interfere
with public rights of access to the sea where such rights were acquired through
use or legislative authorization. Public access rights may include but are not
limited to the use of dry sand and rocky beaches to the first line of
terrestrial vegetation.
   C.   Access Dedication Requirements. The review authority may require the
dedications described in following subsections (C)(1) and (C)(2) upon making
specific findings documenting the need for additional public access on and/or
through the site, and the relationship of the required dedication to the
impacts on existing access, or needs for additional access created by the
project.
   1.   Lateral and Vertical Access. Proposed development and new land uses
located between the ocean the first public road may be required to provide
vertical (perpendicular) access from the public road to bluff and beach areas,
and lateral access along the beach, shoreline and blufftops, in compliance with
policies PR-22 through PR-33 of the parks, recreation and access element of the
general plan/local coastal plan.
   2.   Sites Adjacent to the Boardwalk. Proposed projects on sites adjacent to
the area intended for the Boardwalk may be required to comply with the
following access requirements.
   a.   Lateral Access for Boardwalk. As a condition of approval, any
development on any oceanfront parcel located between Pismo Creek and Main
Street, may be required to dedicate a lateral access easement to allow public
access, development and maintenance of the Boardwalk. The width of the easement
shall generally be twenty feet, unless the size, shape or location of a parcel
make this dedication infeasible or unnecessary. If special circumstances exist
which would impose a unique hardship for a particular parcel, the commission
may reduce the required width of the access easement to a minimum of ten feet.
   b.   Developer Construction of Boardwalk Improvements. Where the review
authority determines that a land use permit application proposes substantial
development along the area intended of the Boardwalk, land use permit approval
may be subject to the condition that the developer construct and install
boardwalk improvements of the segment located within or adjacent to the site.
Projects determined to include only minor development may be permitted to pay
in-lieu fees as provided by council resolution.
   D.   Permitted Development in Blufftop Access Areas. The development and use
of blufftop access areas shall comply with policy PR-33 of the parks,
recreation and access element of the general plan/local coastal plan.
   E.   Timing of Access Requirements. The type and extent of access to be
dedicated, and/or constructed and maintained, as well as the method by which
its continuing availability for public use is to be guaranteed, shall be
established at the time of land use permit approval, as provided by this
section.
   1.   Dedication. Shall occur before issuance of construction permits or the
start of any construction activity not requiring a permit.
   2.   Construction of Improvements. Shall occur at the same time as
construction of the approved development, unless another time is established
through conditions of land use permit approval.
   3.   Interference with Public Use Prohibited. Following an offer to dedicate
public access pursuant to this section; the property owner shall not interfere
with use by the public of the areas subject to the offer before and after
acceptance by the responsible entity.
   F.   Access Title and Guarantee. Where public coastal accessways are
required by this section, approval of a land division, or land use permit for
new development shall require guarantee of such access through deed
restriction, or dedication of right-of-way or easement. Before approval of a
land use permit or land division, the method and form of such access guarantee
shall be approved by city attorney, and shall be recorded in the office of the
County Recorder, identifying the precise location and area to be set aside for
public access. The method of access guarantee shall be chosen according to the
following criteria:
   1.   Deed Restriction. Shall be used only where an owner, association or
corporation agrees to assume responsibility for maintenance of and liability
for the public access area, subject to approval by the planning director.
   2.   Grant of Fee Interest or Easement: Shall be used when a public agency
or private organization approved by the planning director is willing to assume
ownership, maintenance and liability for the access.
   3.   Offer of Dedication. Shall be used when no public agency, private
organization or individual is willing to accept fee interest or easement for
accessway maintenance and liability. Such offers shall not be accepted until
maintenance responsibility and liability is established.
17.32.070 Shoreline protection.
   A.   Erosion Control. Proposed blufftop development shall be designed and
constructed to incorporate appropriate erosion control measures, in compliance
with the city's grading standards (
Chapter 15.16 of the Municipal Code), and the Erosion Control Handbook in
Appendix 2 of the general plan/local coastal plan.
   B.   Drainage Devices. Drainage devices extending over the bluff face shall
not be permitted if the property can be drained away from the bluff face. All
new drainage structures shall be constructed so that drainage water will not
spill over or onto the bluff face. Drain pipes shall be allowed only where no
other less environmentally damaging drain system is feasible, and drain pipes
are designed and placed to minimize impacts to the bluff face, toe of bluff,
and beach.
   C.   Shoreline Protective Structures. Shoreline protective structures
including sea walls, revetments, groins, breakwaters, and rip-rap may be
allowed with conditional use permit approval, only when the review authority
determines that the structure is:
   1.   Necessary to protect existing structures, coastal-dependent uses,
public beaches and parks in danger of erosion;
   2.   The least environmentally damaging feasible alternative;
   3.   Designed to successfully eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts on local
shoreline and sand supply;
   4.   Designed to avoid significant rocky points and intertidal or subtidal
areas;
   5.   Designed to provide lateral beach access, where feasible;
   6.   Designed to respect natural land forms and minimize visual impact to
the extent possible, through means including the use of visually compatible
colors and materials; and
   7.   Consistent with policy CO-17 of the conservation and open space element
of the general plan/local coastal plan.
   D.   Structures on Sandy Beach. No permanent structures shall be permitted
on the dry sandy beach except facilities necessary for public health and
safety, including lifeguard towers, the pier and boardwalk.
   E.   Offshore Oil Operations. Offshore oil drilling or any other activity
that may endanger the Pismo Clam, or the recreational value of the beach, shall
be prohibited within the city's jurisdiction, and discouraged in adjacent
outside ocean areas.
   F.   Sand Mining. Offshore sand mining shall be prohibited within the city's
jurisdiction.
Chapter 17.34 PARKING AND LOADING
17.34.010 Purpose of chapter.
   The off-street parking and loading standards of this chapter are intended
to:
   A.   Provide sufficient parking facilities to meet the needs generated by
the proposed use;
   B.   Provide accessible, attractive, secure, properly lighted, and well-
maintained and screened off-street parking and loading facilities;
   C.   Reduce traffic congestion and hazards;
   D.   Encourage the use of alternative modes of transportation by providing
for safe, adequate and convenient bicycle and carpool parking;
   E.   Protect neighborhoods from the effects of vehicular noise and traffic;
   F.   Ensure access and maneuverability for emergency vehicles; and
   G.   Provide loading and delivery facilities in proportion to the needs
generated by the proposed use.
17.34.020 Applicability.
   Every permanent land use (including a change of use), and every structure
shall be provided permanently maintained off-street parking and loading areas,
in compliance with this chapter.
17.34.030 General parking and loading regulations.
   A.   Location of Parking and Loading Areas. All parking and loading spaces,
areas, and their accessways shall be located on the site of a proposed land
use, outside of the public right-of-way, in compliance with Section
17.34.070 (Development Standards for Off-Street Parking). Off-site spaces may
be used to satisfy the parking requirements of this chapter as follows.
   1.   The director or commission may authorize a portion or all of the
required parking to be located on an adjacent parcel or on a non-contiguous
parcel, provided that all required parking spaces will be within three hundred
feet of the use requiring the parking; and
   2.   Off-site parking may also be authorized in compliance with Section
17.34.050 (Reduction of Off-Street Parking Requirements).
   B.   Maintenance of Parking and Loading Areas. All covered or uncovered off-
street parking and loading facilities required by this chapter shall be
permanently reserved for parking and loading purposes, without any fee or
charge to patrons of the site requiring the parking. All parking facilities,
including but not limited to curbs, directional markings, disabled symbols,
landscaping, pavement, signs, striping, and wheel stops, and other facilities,
shall be permanently maintained by the property owner/tenant in good repair,
free of litter and debris, potholes, obstructions, and stored material.
   C.   Residential Guest Parking. Required guest parking in residential zoning
districts shall be designated and restricted for the use of guests.
   D.   Recreational Vehicle Parking--Residential Areas. The storage (parking
for any period longer than seventy-two hours) of recreational vehicles and
boats on private property in residential zoning districts shall be allowed only
within driveway areas, within interior side setbacks, and rear setbacks.
   1.   All vehicles stored in areas other than driveways that may be visible
from the public view of the front, or street-side areas of the site shall be
screened by a combination of fencing, walls, and/or screening landscaping as
determined by the director.
   2.   Stored vehicles shall be solely for the personal use of the property
owner or residents of the site intended for accessory storage. Recreational
vehicles shall not be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes when
stored on a residential lot, or in any location not approved for these
purposes.
   E.   Commercial Vehicle Parking--Residential Areas. No commercial vehicle
exceeding eight feet in height and/or twenty feet in combined total length, or
towed equipment, shall park between the hours of six p.m. and six a.m. on
private property or public rights-of-way within residential zoning districts.
This prohibition shall not apply to construction sites during the construction
process or to vehicles in the process of making deliveries or pickups.
Additional requirements for the parking of commercial and oversize vehicles are
provided by
Chapter 10.08 (Stopping, Standing, and Parking) of the Municipal Code.
17.34.040 Number of parking spaces required.
   All proposed land uses shall be designed and constructed to provide the
minimum number of off-street parking spaces required by this Section, except
where a greater number of spaces is required through land use permit conditions
of approval.
   A.   Expansion of Existing Structure, Change in Use. When a structure is
enlarged or increased in capacity, or when a change in use is required by this
section to have more parking than the former use, the additional off-street
parking spaces required by this Section shall be provided on the site, except
where a reduction in parking space requirements is approved in compliance with
Section
17.34.050 (Reduction of Off-Street Parking Requirements).
   B.   Alteration of Existing Structure, Change in Use--CD Districts. The use
of any structure which existed within the CD zoning district as of December 14,
1983, may be changed without providing the parking spaces required by this
section, except as follows.
   1.   Change of Use from Residential to Commercial. Additional parking spaces
shall be provided where a change of use from residential to commercial is
proposed, and the commercial use would be required by this section to have more
than fifty percent more parking spaces than the former residential use. The
number of spaces provided shall be the number required by this section for the
new use, minus two spaces, and minus the number of spaces required for the
residential use.
   2.   Reconstruction or Structural Alteration. Reconstructions or major
structural alterations (not including seismic retrofitting) which exceed fifty
percent of the assessed value of the existing improvements, and do not increase
floor area shall provide one-half of the number of spaces required by this
section for all uses within the structure and on the parcel.
   3.   Additions within CD-C Zoning District. Additions to structures within
the CD-C zoning district shall be required to provide parking in compliance
with this section for the area of the addition only.
   C.   Multiple uses on a Single Site. A site or facility proposed for
multiple tenants or uses (for example, a building with ground-floor shops and
second-floor offices) shall provide the aggregate number of parking spaces
required by this section for each separate use; except where shared parking is
allowed in compliance with Section
17.34.050 (Reduction of Off-Street Parking Requirements).
   D.   Parking Required by Development Agreements and Specific Plans. Parking
requirements established by applicable development agreements or specific plans
supersede the provisions of this section.
   E.   Parking Districts. The parking requirements of this section do not
apply to any use proposed within a parking district established by the council
after the effective date of this section, except for hotels, motels, bed and
breakfast inns, and other transient lodging facilities.
   F.   Parking Requirements by Land Use. Each land use shall be provided the
minimum number of off-street parking spaces shown in Table 3-2.
   1.   Additional Requirements. Additional spaces may be required by the
review authority through land use permit conditions of approval, where
applicable.
   2.   Uses Not Listed. Land uses not specifically listed by Table 3-2 shall
provide parking as required by the director. In determining appropriate off-
street parking requirements, the director shall use the requirements of Table
3-2 as a general guide in determining the minimum number of off-street parking
spaces necessary to avoid undue interference with public use of streets.
   3.   Rounding of Quantities. Where the number of required parking spaces
results in a fraction of 0.50 or higher, the requirements shall be rounded up
to the next whole space.
   TABLE 3-2
REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES
 
Land Use Type: Manufacturing &         Number of Parking Spaces Required   
Processing  
                                       1 space for each 500 sq. ft. of gross
Manufacturing, industrial, warehousing floor area plus 1 space for each vehicle
                                       operated in connection with each on-site
                                       use.
                                       If the facility is open to the public,
                                       an on-site parking area shall be
                                       provided for a minimum of 10 customers
Recycling facilities                   at any one time. Space shall be also
                                       provided for the anticipated peak load
                                       of customers to circulate, park and
                                       deposit recyclable materials.
                                       One employee parking space shall be
                                       provided on-site for each commercial
                                       vehicle operated by the processing
                                       center.
 
Land Use Type: Recreation, Education, Number of Parking Spaces Required   
Public Assembly  
Land Use Type: Recreation, Education, Number of Parking Spaces Required   
Public Assembly  
Child day care                            
                                      1 space for each employee, plus an
Centers                               adequate drop-off area as required by
                                      the review authority.
Large family care homes               1 space for each employee.
                                      2 spaces per tee; plus clubhouse spaces
Golf courses, driving ranges          as required for restaurants, bars,
                                      health/fitness clubs, and similar
                                      accessory uses.
Indoor recreation and fitness centers     
Arcades                               1 space for each 200 sq. ft. of gross
                                      floor area.
Bowling alleys                        4 spaces per lane.
Dance halls                           1 space for each 100 sq. ft. of gross
                                      floor area.
Health/ fitness clubs                 1 space for each 150 sq. ft. of gross
                                      floor area.
Pool and billiard rooms               2 spaces per table.
Libraries and museums                 1 space for each 500 sq. ft. of gross
                                      floor area.
Membership organizations              1 space for every 3.5 occupants, as
                                      determined by the Fire Department
Outdoor commercial recreation         Determined by Conditional Use Permit.
facilities
                                      1 space for each 4 fixed seats, or each
                                      7 linear ft. of bench or pew seating;
Religious places of worship           plus 1 space for each 30 sq. ft. of
                                      sanctuary or meeting area without fixed
                                      seats.
Schools                                   
                                      1 space for each classroom; plus 1 space
                                      per 5 fixed seats in an auditorium; plus
Elementary/ Junior High               1 space for each 35 sq. ft. of floor
                                      area in meeting/multipurpose rooms
                                      without fixed seats.
                                      5 spaces for each classroom; plus 1
                                      space per 5 fixed seats in an
High School                           auditorium; plus 1 space for each 35 sq.
                                      ft. of floor area in meeting/
                                      multipurpose rooms without fixed seats.
Studios for dance, art, and similar   1 space for each 2 students.
activities
Tennis/racquetball courts             3 spaces per court, plus as required for
                                      incidental uses.
                                      1 space for every 4 fixed seats; 1 space
Theaters, auditoriums, and meeting    per each 30 sq. ft. of meeting/
halls                                 multipurpose room floor area without
                                      fixed seats.
  
Land Use Type: Residential Uses Number of Parking Spaces Required   
Land Use Type: Residential Uses      Number of Parking Spaces Required   
Accessory dwelling units               See 17.38.155
                                       2 spaces per unit, 1 covered; plus 1
Mobile home parks                      space for each 4 units, for guest and RV
                                       parking.
Mobile homes outside of parks          2 spaces, 1 within a garage or carport.
Multi-family, condominiums, and senior Studio and 1 bedroom units of less than
non-convalescent dwellings             600 sq. ft.--1 space per unit.
(Spaces may be within garages,
carports, or open parking courts;      Units of 2 or more bedrooms and/or 600
parking courts require Site Plan and   sq. ft. or more--2 spaces per unit.
Architectural Review.)
                                       Guest parking--1 space per 4 units for
                                       projects of 50 units or less; 1 space
                                       per 2 units for projects of more than 50
                                       units.
                                       1 space per each sleeping room, or 1
Rooming and boarding houses            space per 100 sq. ft. of sleeping area,
                                       whichever is greater.
Secondary residential units            1 in a garage or carport.
Senior convalescent housing projects   1 space per 1.5 living units.
                                       2 spaces; both within a garage on
                                       parcels larger than 2,700 sq. ft., one
Single-family dwellings, duplexes      within a garage on parcels 2,700 sq. ft.
                                       or smaller. Carports shall not be
                                       allowed for single-family dwellings.
  
Land Use Type: Retail Trade Number of Parking Spaces Required   
Land Use Type: Retail Trade         Number of Parking Spaces Required   
                                      1 space for each 450 sq. ft. of gross
                                      floor area for showroom and office; plus
                                      1 space for each 2,000 sq. ft. of outdoor
Auto, mobile home, vehicle and parts  display area; plus 1 space for each 500
sales                                 sq. ft. of gross floor area for vehicle
                                      repair; plus 1 space for each 300 sq. ft.
                                      of gross floor area for the parts
                                      department.
                                      1 space for each 300 sq. ft. of indoor
Plant nurseries                       display area; plus 1 space for each 1000
                                      sq. ft. of outdoor display area.
Restaurants, cafes, bars, and similar 1 space for each 75 sq. ft. of dining,
facilities                            waiting, and outdoor dining area.
Take-out windows                      2 spaces in addition to those required
                                      for restaurant above.
Retail stores                             
General retail                        1 space for each 300 sq. ft. of gross
                                      floor area.
Appliances, furnishings, equipment,   1 space for each 600 sq. ft. of gross
other large items                     floor area.
Warehouse retail                      1 space for each 165 sq. ft. of gross
                                      floor area.
Shopping centers                      1 space for each 250 sq. ft. of gross
                                      floor area.
  
Land Use Type: Services Number of Parking Spaces Required   
Land Use Type: Services               Number of Parking Spaces Required   
Banks and financial services            1 space for each 300 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area, plus 2 spaces per ATM.
                                        1 space for each guest room, and 1.5
Hotels and motels (see 17.38.080)       spaces for each multi-room suite; plus
                                        1 space for each 20 guest rooms.
Accessory dining, meeting, and          1 space for each 150 sq. ft. of dining
convention facilities                   room area.
Kennels and animal boarding             1 space for each 400 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area.
Medical services                            
Clinics, medical/dental offices, labs   1 space for each 150 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area.
Extended care                           1 space for each 3 beds.
Hospitals                               1 space for each patient bed.
Offices, business, professional         1 space for each 300 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area.
Personal services                           
Barber/ beauty shops                    2.5 spaces for each service chair.
Laundromats                             1 space for every 3 washing machines.
Other personal service uses             1 space for each 300 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area.
Research and development                1 space for each 300 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area.
                                        1 space for each 180 sq. ft. of gross
Service stations                        building floor area; plus 1 space for
                                        each service bay; plus 1 space for each
                                        300 sq. ft. of convenience retail.
                                        1 space for each 5,000 sq. ft. of gross
Storage, personal storage facilities    floor area plus 2 spaces for any
                                        resident manager.
Vehicle services--Repair and                
maintenance
Repair garage                           5 spaces, plus 1 space for each 200 sq.
                                        ft. of gross floor area.
Facilities designed for customer to     4 spaces per service bay plus adequate
wait on-site during service             queuing lanes.
Self-service vehicle washing            2.5 spaces per washing stall, for
                                        queuing and drying.
Full-service vehicle washing            12 spaces, plus adequate queuing and
                                        drying area.
Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals 1 space per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                        area.
 
(Ord. O-2018-011 § 5, 2018: Ord. 05-10 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2005; Ord. 03-04 §
2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003; Ord. 03-03 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.34.050 Reduction of off-street parking requirements.
   The number of off-street parking spaces required by Section
17.34.040 (Number of Parking Spaces Required) may be reduced as provided by
this section.
   A.   General Shared Parking Reduction. The total number of parking spaces
required for multiple non-residential uses sharing a single parking facility
may be reduced by the commission through site plan and architectural review, or
conditional use permit approval.
   1.   Allowed Reduction. The commission may reduce the number of parking
spaces required by up to fifteen percent of the sum of all parking requirements
computed separately.
   2.   Required Findings. The granting of a parking reduction shall require
that the commission first find that:
   a.   Some of the uses sharing the parking facility generate parking demands
primarily during hours when the remaining uses are not in operation (for
example, if one use operates during evenings or weekdays only); or
   b.   The parking demands for the individual uses vary substantially during a
typical day; or
   c.   Patrons are likely to visit more than one business establishment on a
single trip.
   B.   Downtown Area Parking Reductions. Within the CD zoning district, the
number of parking spaces required may be reduced as follows.
   1.   Multiple Use Shared Parking. The total number of parking spaces
required for multiple non-residential uses sharing a single parking facility
may be reduced by the commission through conditional use permit approval. The
aggregate total number of parking spaces required for each use by Section
17.34.040 (Number of Parking Spaces Required) may be reduced by twenty-five
percent for the first five thousand square feet of building area on the site,
and by two percent for each additional one thousand square feet of building
area, up to a maximum reduction of sixty percent.
   2.   Off-Site Shared Parking. Where approved by the commission, parking
required for a use proposed within the CD-C zoning district may be located in a
common or shared parking facility away from the site of the proposed use,
including outside of the CD-C district. In reviewing a request for shared off-
site parking, the commission shall consider how the distance between the
parking area and the proposed use may affect whether the off-site facility will
satisfy the parking needs of the proposed use.
   3.   Joint Use of Existing Parking Facilities. The joint use of existing
parking facilities by multiple uses may be authorized through conditional use
permit approval as provided by this subsection.
   a.   Applicability. If a parcel or building has more on-site parking spaces
than the number required by Table 3-2, the number of excess spaces may be made
available to serve a use on another site, provided that the parking site is
within five hundred feet of the use to be served.
   b.   Allowed Parking Reduction. Up to seventy percent of the parking spaces
required by Table 3-2 for a use determined by the review authority to be
primarily a daytime use may be provided by the parking facilities of a use
determined to be primarily a nighttime use, in compliance with the following
standards.
   (1)   Typical daytime uses include: banks, business offices, retail stores,
personal service shops, and similar uses. Typical nighttime uses include
theaters and restaurants.
   (2)   The applicant shall be required to show that:
   (a)   There is no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of
the building or uses for which the joint use of off-street parking facilities
is proposed; and
   (b)   The proposed joint use parking area is conveniently located to serve
both uses, and generally not a greater distance from those uses than five
hundred feet.
   c.   Required Agreement or Covenant. A parking agreement or covenant in a
form approved by the city shall be recorded against the property which is the
site of the parking referenced in subsections (B)(3)(a) and (B)(3)(b) above.
The agreement or covenant shall contain the following stipulations:
   (1)   The owner of the parking facility shall continue to maintain and make
the parking facility available to the use as long as the use continues;
   (2)   The owner of the business or use receiving the parking shall
discontinue the use requiring the parking upon revocation of the agreement or
covenant;
   (3)   The agreement or covenant shall not be revoked without the prior
notification and approval of the city; and
   (4)   If the parking site is owned by the developer of the proposed uses,
the covenant shall stipulate that the title to and right to use the site upon
which the parking is to be provided will be subservient to the title to the
site upon which the building is to be developed, and that it is warranted that
the site is not and will not be made subject to any other covenant or contract
for use without prior written consent of the city.
   4.   Payment of Fees In Lieu of Providing Parking. The parking space
requirements of Table 3-2 may be satisfied through the payment of an "in-lieu"
parking fee subject to the following requirements:
   a.   Applicability. This provision shall apply to commercial uses and
development within the CD zoning district, as follows:
   (1)   Within the CD-C district, up to one hundred percent of the parking
requirement for new development, additions or renovations may be satisfied by
the payment of in-lieu fees.
   (2)   Within the CD-M, and CD-V districts, up to one hundred percent of the
parking requirement generated by new development, additions or renovations on
sites of less than four thousand square feet may be satisfied by the payment of
in-lieu fees, and up to fifty percent for parcels or sites larger than four
thousand square feet.
   (3)   The payment of in-lieu parking fees shall not be used to satisfy the
parking requirements of any transient lodging or residential use.
   b.   Establishment of Fee. The city council shall adopt a resolution setting
the amounts of the in-lieu parking fees to be paid. The resolution may be
amended from time to time as conditions change. The amounts of the fees shall
be based on the following, which shall be included in the resolution:
   (1)   The estimated total cost of providing one off-street parking space in
a surface parking lot located within the downtown, including the costs of land
and all improvements.
   (2)   Within the CD-C district and on sites smaller than four thousand
square feet in other CD districts, the amount of the in-lieu fee for parking
requirements caused by additions or renovations to existing buildings shall be
sixty percent of the total cost established in compliance with subsection (B)
(4)(b), above.
   (3)   Within the CD-C district, the amount of the in-lieu fee for parking
requirements caused by new development, other than additions, shall be eighty
percent of the total cost established in compliance with subsection (B)(4)(b),
above.
   (4)   In all other instances, the amount of the in-lieu fee shall be one
hundred percent of the total amount per space established in compliance with
subsection (B)(4)(b), above.
   c.   Commission Approval Required. Any request to pay an in-lieu parking fee
to satisfy the requirement for off-street parking shall be subject to review
and approval by the planning commission.
   d.   Timing of Payment. Any approved in-lieu parking fees shall be paid to
the city prior to issuance of a building permit for the project.
   e.   Deposit and Use of Funds.
   (1)   The city shall establish a special restricted fund within which all
in-lieu parking fees collected by the city shall be deposited.
   (2)   The in-lieu parking fund shall be used only for the purchase of
additional land for public parking facilities and the construction of
improvements to accommodate public parking, within the CD district.
17.34.060 Disabled parking requirements.
   Parking areas shall include parking spaces accessible to the disabled in
compliance with this section.
   A.   Number of spaces, design standards. Parking spaces for the disabled
shall be provided in compliance with Uniform Building Code (UBC) Section 1129B,
which incorporates the requirements of California State law. State law may be
amended from time to time, so reference should be made directly to State law
for standards on the required number, dimensions, and location of handicapped
parking spaces, signage, and related facilities. See Figure 3-7.
   FIGURE 3-7
DESIGN OF DISABLED ACCESSIBLE SPACES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5779.jpg]
 
   B.   Reservation of Spaces Required. All disabled accessible spaces required
by this section shall be reserved by the property owner/tenant for use by the
disabled throughout the life of the approved land use.
   C.   Upgrading of Markings Required. If amendments to State law change State
standards for the marking, striping, and signing of disabled parking spaces,
all handicapped spaces within the city shall be upgraded in compliance with the
new State standards. This upgrading shall be completed by affected property
owners within sixty days of their being notified in writing by the city of the
new State standards.
17.34.070 Development standards for off-street parking.
   Off-street parking areas shall be provided on the subject site, outside of
any public right-of-way, in compliance with this Section. See also Section
17.34.080 (Parking Design Guidelines).
   A.   Access.
   1.   Driveway Location and Design. Site access driveways shall be located
and designed in compliance with Section
17.34.090 (Driveways and Site Access).
   2.   Internal Maneuvering Area. Parking areas shall provide suitable
maneuvering room so that all vehicles may enter an abutting street in a forward
direction. Single-family homes and duplexes are exempt from this requirement
and the director may approve exceptions for other residential projects.
   3.   Parking Space Location. No parking space shall be located so that a
vehicle will maneuver within twenty feet of a vehicular entrance to the site,
measured from the property line.
   4.   Residential Garage Location. Residential garage entrances shall be set
back a minimum of twenty feet from any public or private street right-of-way.
   5.   Tandem Parking. Tandem parking shall only be used as follows.
   a.   Residential Districts. The review authority may authorize the use of
tandem parking spaces in residential zoning districts only, where the spaces
are:
   (1)   On single-family lots, when the planning commission or director finds
that:
   (a)   Existing conditions or terrain on the property present unusual
circumstances justifying the approval of tandem parking,
   (b)   The tandem space(s) is (are) appropriately located on the site,
   (c)   The use of tandem spaces will not jeopardize the health, safety, or
welfare of persons in the neighborhood,
   (d)   The use of tandem spaces will result in a better project than would
otherwise be feasible,
   (e)   Any two spaces in tandem are under the control of one person or group
living together.
   b.   CD Zoning Districts. Tandem parking may be permitted to satisfy off-
street parking requirements within the CD-C and CD-V zoning districts, for
transient lodging uses, only where valet service is provided at all times when
the parking spaces are available for public use.
   B.   Adjacent Site Access. Non-residential developments should be designed
and constructed to provide cross-access to adjacent non-residential properties
for convenience, safety and efficient circulation of motor vehicles. A mutual
access agreement should be executed where cross-access is provided.
   C.   Parking Lot and Space Dimensions:
   1.   General Requirements. Parking stalls, aisles, bays, and other parking
lot features shall be designed and constructed with the minimum dimensions
indicated in Table 3-3, and as illustrated by Figure 3-8.
   2.   Compact Car Spaces. A maximum of thirty-three percent of the total
number of required parking spaces may be compact spaces, in compliance with the
minimum dimensions shown in Table 3-2 for compact cars.
   3.   Dimensions for Private Garages or Carports. The following minimum
unobstructed inside dimensions shall be provided for private garages and
carports:
 
                             Required Dimensions by Number of Parking Spaces
                             Provided   
 Garage/ Carport Dimension  1 car  2 car  3 car   
Width                        10 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
Depth                        20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.
Door/access width            8 ft.    16 ft.   N.A.
 
   4.   Parallel Parking Spaces. Parallel parking spaces shall have a minimum
width of nine feet and a minimum length of twenty-four feet.
   5.   RV Spaces. Parking spaces for recreational vehicles shall be a minimum
of twelve feet wide by twenty-two feet deep.
   D.   Drainage. All off-street parking/loading areas shall be designed and
constructed:
   1.   So that surface water will not drain over any sidewalk or adjacent site
(drainage from a site to a street across a driveway may be approved), or
adjacent parcels;
   2.   In compliance with the city's best management practices, adopted in
accordance with the requirements of the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES).
   3.   To include facilities for the sub-surface filtering of oil and grease
contaminants, in new or reconstructed non-residential parking lots with five or
more parking spaces.
   TABLE 3-2
REQUIRED PARKING STALL AND PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS
REQUIREMENTS FOR STANDARD SIZE CARS
                       Minimum Dimension by Angle of Parking Spaces   
 Parking Lot Feature  0° 30° 45° 60° 90°   
                            Minimum Dimension by Angle of Parking Spaces   
 Parking Lot Feature      0°  30° 45°  60°  90°   
Stall width--Interior space 8 ft.  9 ft.  9 ft.    9 ft.   9 ft.
Stall width--End space      8 ft.  10 ft. 10 ft.   10 ft.  10 ft.
Curb length per car         23 ft. 19 ft. 13'-5"   11 ft.  9'-10"
Stall depth                 N.A.   18'-3" 20'-6"   21'-6"  20 ft.
Minimum aisle width         14 ft. 11 ft. 13 ft.   18 ft.  24 ft.
Bay depth--1 row, 1 aisle   20 ft. 29'-3" 33'-6"   39'-6"  44 ft.
Bay depth--2 rows, 1 aisle  28 ft. 47'-6" 54 ft.   61 ft.  64 ft.
Bay depth--3 rows, 2 aisles 48 ft. 68 ft. 80'-4"   95'-6"  108 ft.
Bay depth--4 rows, 2 aisles 56 ft. 86'-2" 100'-10" 116'-6" 128 ft.
 
REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPACT CARS
                        Minimum Dimension by Angle of Parking Spaces   
 Parking Lot Feature  0° 30° 45° 60° 90°   
                             Minimum Dimension by Angle of Parking Spaces   
 Parking Lot Feature      0°  30° 45° 60° 90°   
Stall width                 8 ft.  9 ft.  9 ft.  9 ft.  9 ft.
Curb length per car         20 ft. 18 ft. 12'-9" 10'-5" 9 ft.
Stall depth                 9 ft.  15'-9" 17'-8" 18'-3" 16 ft.
Minimum aisle width         12 ft. 11 ft. 13 ft. 18 ft. 24 ft.
Bay depth--1 row, 1 aisle   21 ft. 26'-9" 30'-8" 36'-3" 40 ft.
Bay depth--2 rows, 1 aisle  30 ft. 42'-6" 48'-4" 54'-6" 56 ft.
Bay depth--3 rows, 2 aisles 51 ft. 61'-6" 72'-8" 86'-3" 96 ft.
Bay depth--4 rows, 2 aisles 60 ft. 77'-3" 90'-4" 95'-8" 112 ft.
 
   FIGURE 3-8
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5781.jpg]
 
   E.   Landscaping. Required parking area landscaping shall be provided as
follows, unless otherwise specified in this chapter, and except where all
parking spaces are entirely within a building or in a subterranean parking lot.
   1.   Minimum Area for Landscaping. A minimum of thirty percent of the area
within the perimeter of all parking lots shall be designed, constructed and
maintained as landscaped areas.
   2.   Perimeter Landscaping:
   a.   Adjacent to Streets. Parking areas adjacent to a public right-of-way
shall be designed to provide a three-foot wide landscaped planting strip
between the right-of way and parking.
   b.   Adjacent to Residential Use. Parking areas for nonresidential uses
adjacent to residential uses shall be designed to provide a landscaped planting
strip a minimum of three and one-half feet in width between the parking area
and the property line bordering the residential use. A screening wall shall
also be provided in compliance with subsection H of this section.
   3.   Interior Landscaping:
   a.   Planting Strips Between Parking Aisles. Parking areas with multiple
parking aisles shall be designed to provide a continuous planter strip between
each aisle. The planter strip shall be six feet wide. Adequate pedestrian paths
shall be provided throughout the landscaped areas. The planting strips shall
include at least one twenty-four-inch box shade tree for every five parking
spaces; appropriate clustering of trees may be approved by the director.
   b.   Projecting Islands. Planting strips between aisles in parking lots with
more than fifteen parking spaces shall include projecting islands to
accommodate additional trees and other landscape materials. Islands shall be
provided between every 10 parking spaces, and shall be a minimum of six feet
wide.
   c.   Required Shading. The landscaping program (including tree species
selected) shall be designed to provide shading for fifty percent of the parking
lot area within fifteen years.
   d.   Bumper Overhang Areas. To increase the parking lot landscaped area, a
maximum of two feet of the parking stall depth may be landscaped with low-
growth, hearty materials in lieu of asphalt, allowing a bumper overhang while
maintaining the required parking dimensions.
   e.   Areas Not Used for Parking. Areas in a parking lot not used for
driveways, maneuvering areas, parking spaces, or walks, shall be landscaped and
permanently maintained, in compliance with a program submitted by the applicant
and approved by the director.
   4.   Curbing, Irrigation. All areas containing plant materials shall be
bordered by a concrete curb at least six inches high and six inches wide, and
provided with an approved automatic irrigation system.
   F.   Lighting. Parking areas shall have lighting capable of providing
adequate illumination for security and safety. Lighting standards shall be
energy-efficient and in scale with the height and use of the on-site structure
(s). Any lights, including security lighting, shall be directed downward, away
from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way, and shall provide no less
than 0.3, and no more than 1.0 foot candles of illumination. (See Figure 3-9.)
   FIGURE 3-9
PARKING AREA LIGHTING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5783.jpg]
 
   G.   Location of Required Parking. All required parking spaces shall be
located on the same parcel as the primary structure or use, unless approved
otherwise by the director. The director may approve a portion or all of the
required off-street spaces to be located on an adjacent parcel; or on a non-
contiguous parcel, provided that all required parking spaces will be within
three hundred feet of the use requiring the parking.
   The applicant shall provide evidence, to the satisfaction of the director,
that a suitable long-term lease or other binding agreement can be executed and
recorded which would guarantee that the parcel containing the primary structure
or use has an irrevocable right to utilize the adjacent parcel for parking.
   H.   Paving. All driveway, parking and maneuvering areas shall be paved with
concrete in compliance with ASTMC-143; or asphalt surfacing compacted to a
minimum thickness of two inches, laid over a base of crushed rock, gravel, or
other similar material compacted to a minimum thickness of four inches, or as
otherwise required or approved by the city engineer.
   I.   Screening. Commercial/industrial and public parking areas abutting
residentially zoned parcels shall provide a six-foot high wood or decorative
masonry wall at the property line adjacent to the residential zoning district,
to properly screen the parking area(s), subject to approval by the director.
The director may waive or modify this requirement to protect the views of
adjacent residences. All decorative wall features shall occur on both sides of
the wall.
   J.   Striping. Parking stalls shall be identified with double, four-inch
wide paint stripes, or other durable striping material approved by the
director, on the parking lot surface, in compliance with Figure 3-10 (Parking
Stall Striping). Parallel spaces may be marked with single lines.
   FIGURE 3-10
PARKING STALL STRIPING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5785.jpg]
 
   K.   Wheel Stops/Curbing. Continuous concrete curbing at least six inches
high and six inches wide shall be provided for all parking spaces located
adjacent to walls, fences, property lines and structures. All parking lots
shall have curbing around all parking areas and aisle planters in compliance
with Subsection E above. (Ord. 05-10 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2005)
17.34.080 Parking design guidelines.
   A.   Purpose. The parking design guidelines of this Section are intended as
a guide to assist property owners and project designers in understanding the
general plan's goals for attaining high quality development that is sensitive
to the city's unique character.
   B.   Applicability. These guidelines will be utilized during the site plan
and architectural review process as criteria against which to review projects
requiring design approval.
   1.   The provisions of this chapter apply whenever access and/or parking are
provided for a project regardless of whether or not the access or parking are
required by this Zoning Code. Any addition, relocation, or construction
requiring site plan and architectural review approval in compliance with
Section
17.42.030 shall comply with these guidelines where applicable.
   2.   These guidelines may be interpreted with some flexibility in their
application to specific projects as not all design criteria may be workable/
appropriate for each project. In some circumstances, a guideline may be relaxed
in order to accomplish another, more important guideline. The overall objective
is to ensure that the intent and spirit of the design guidelines are followed.
The ultimate goal of the design review process is to attain the best possible
design within reason.
   C.   General Guidelines.
   1.   Aside from concerns for traffic safety and efficiency, the visual
impacts of parking lots is an important concern. Projects should be laid out so
that parking lots are not the dominant feature of the development when viewed
from the street. Generally, it is not advisable to place the parking area along
the front of the site because it creates a negative visual impact that detracts
from the project's architectural image. Parking placed along the side or to the
rear of a site allows the architectural significance of the buildings and the
beauty of the landscaped open space to take precedence.
   2.   Providing an excessive amount of paved parking areas (beyond what is
required) is strongly discouraged. The city requires significant landscaping
adjacent to the perimeter of the parking area and along the street frontage to
diminish the appearance of paved areas.
   D.   Access and Circulation.
   1.   Primary project entries should be designed as special statements
reflective of the character of the project. The goal should be to establish a
distinctive and inviting image for the project. Textured paving, flowering
accents, low walls, shrubs, and the use of specimen trees (forty-eight inch box
or larger) should be used to generate visual interest at entry points to
commercial centers.
   2.   Entry drives on larger projects (two hundred or more parking stalls)
should include a minimum five foot wide landscaped median to separate incoming
and out-going traffic. See Figure 3-11.
   FIGURE 3-11  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5787.jpg]
 
   3.   The first parking stall that is perpendicular to an entry driveway or
the first aisle juncture that is perpendicular, should be a minimum of forty
feet back from the curb to provide adequate vehicle queuing distance off the
street. With larger centers, a longer setback distance may be required. See
Figure 3-12.
   FIGURE 3-12  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5789.jpg]
 
   4.   Nonresidential developments are encouraged to provide cross-access to
adjacent nonresidential properties for convenience, safety, and efficient
circulation of vehicles. A mutual access agreement shall be executed where
cross-access is provided. A parking reduction for shared parking may be allowed
in compliance with Section
17.34.050 (Reduction of Off-Street Parking Requirements).
   E.   Parking Lot Design.
   1.   Parking lots should be designed with a hierarchy of circulation: major
access drives with no parking; major circulation drives with little or no
parking; and parking aisles for direct access to parking spaces. Small projects
may need to combine components of the hierarchy. See Figure 3-13.
   FIGURE 3-13  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5791.jpg]
 
   2.   Parking lots should include landscaping that accents the importance of
the driveways from the street, frames the major circulation aisles, and
highlights pedestrian pathways.
   3.   Drop-off points (i.e. wider aisles) located near entrances to major
buildings and plaza areas should be provided for projects over two hundred
fifty thousand square feet of building area.
   4.   Parking areas should be separated from buildings by either a raised
walkway or landscape strip at least four feet wide. Situations where parking
aisles or spaces directly abut the building are strongly discouraged. See
Figure 3-14.
   FIGURE 3-14  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5793.jpg]
 
   5.   Intersections should be kept to a minimum and dead-end aisles should be
avoided unless absolutely necessary and when proper backup areas are provided.
   6.   Parking lots should be designed so that pedestrians walk parallel to
moving cars. This will minimize the need for pedestrians to cross parking
aisles and landscape areas. See Figure 3-15.
   FIGURE 3-15  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5795.jpg]
 
    7.   Where parking lots accommodate over one hundred cars, they should be
broken up into segments or modules of less than fifty spaces each by means of
intervening landscaping, access driveways, or structures to avoid large
unbroken expanses of paved area.
   F.   Pedestrian Connections.
   1.   Pedestrian and bicycle access should be designed to physically and
visually link the site to the public sidewalk and bikeway system as an
extension of the project's circulation system and to separate pedestrian and
vehicular traffic. Direct pedestrian links between the project and adjoining
projects and residential areas should be provided whenever appropriate.
   2.   Projects should include a system of pedestrian walkways that
interconnect business entries with each other and with parking areas. Walkways
should connect individual structures within a project directly without forcing
pedestrians to mix with vehicular traffic. See Figure 3-16.
   FIGURE 3-16  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5797.jpg]
 
   3.   Walkways should be well marked by means of low-level directional signs,
lighting, distinctive paving, and landscaping. Where feasible, trellises,
arbors, arcades, or similar features should be used to cover walkways and
provide clear identification of facilities. Where textured paving is used, it
should not be so rough or irregular as to make walking difficult, or discourage
the use of baby strollers, or wheelchairs.
17.34.090 Driveways and site access.
   Driveways providing ingress and egress to off-street parking spaces shall be
designed, constructed, and maintained as follows.
   A.   Number of Access Points. One driveway access point per ownership shall
be permitted unless the city engineer determines, based on a development/
circulation plan submitted by the applicant, or recommendations from the fire
department, that more than one access is required to handle traffic volumes or
specific designs, such as residential circular driveways. Additional access
shall not be permitted if it is determined to be detrimental to the traffic
flow and the safety of adjacent public streets. Whenever a property has access
to more than one street, access shall generally be limited to the street with
the lowest traffic volume, where the impact of a new access will be minimized.
All access from private property to a public street shall require an
encroachment permit.
   B.   Location of Access.
   1.   Distance from Street Intersections. No portion of a driveway access
shall be permitted within curb returns. The edge of the access shall not be
less than 10 feet from the end of curb returns for single-family residential
developments. For all other developments, this distance shall not be less than
one hundred fifty feet. Where the lot size does not permit the access to be
located one hundred fifty feet from the end of curb return, the access shall be
located the maximum distance possible from the end of the curb return. This
distance does not include the three-foot transition or wing sections on each
side of the driveway.
   2.   Driveway Spacing. Two or more driveway access points on a public street
shall be separated as follows.
   a.   Single-Family Residential Development. Where two or more accesses serve
adjacent single-family residential parcels, the minimum distance between the
nearest points of the two accesses shall be at least twenty feet, unless a
shared, single driveway access is approved by the director. The twenty-foot
separation does not include the three-foot transition or wing sections on each
side of the driveway, and may be reduced by the director for a cul-de-sac
street.
   b.   Multi-Family and Nonresidential Development. Where two or more accesses
serve the same or adjacent non-single-family residential development, the
minimum distance between the centerline of accesses should be preferably at
least two hundred feet on streets with design speeds below thirty mph and three
hundred feet on streets with design speeds above thirty mph.
   c.   Corner and Double Frontage Lots. For corner and double frontage
residential lots, one access on each frontage may be permitted if it is
determined by the city engineer that two driveways are needed to provide safe
access for traffic entering and leaving the lot because of site distance and
geometric design considerations.
   C.   Driveway Width and Length.
   1.   Driveway Width Requirements. Driveways shall be designed and
constructed to the widths specified by Table 3-4.
   TABLE 3-4
MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM DRIVEWAY WIDTH
 
Number of Parking Spaces Accessed by Minimum Width Maximum Width   
Driveway  
2-8                                  12'--0"         16'--0"
9-14                                 16'--0"         18'--0"
15+                                  18'--0"         24'--0"(1)
 
   Notes:
   (1) The review authority may modify the maximum or minimum width when the
proposed width is adequate and where needed for safety or accessibility.
   (2) When redevelopment or rehabilitation occurs, existing driveways shall be
modified or eliminated to conform to these standards.
   2.   Driveway Length--RSL and RSM Zoning Districts. The minimum length of a
single-family driveway shall be twenty feet measured from back of the sidewalk
to the front of the garage, to permit vehicle parking in the driveway without
blocking the sidewalk. Where access to a garage, carport, or open parking space
is perpendicular (ninety degrees) to the driveway, a minimum twenty-four-foot
deep unobstructed back-out area shall be provided.
   D.   Driveway Alignments--Commercial Development. Where commercial parcels
are not large enough to allow accesses on opposite sides of the street to be
aligned, the center of driveways not in alignment will normally be offset a
minimum of one hundred fifty feet on all collector roads, and three hundred
feet on all major and arterial roads. Greater distances may be required if
needed for left-turn storage lanes.
   E.   Driveway Slope. Driveway and parking lot slopes shall not exceed twenty
percent. For commercial development and multi-family development, entrance and
exit areas shall not exceed three percent within the first thirty feet from the
street right-of-way, except where the city engineer may approve an alternate
standard that provides an adequate landing area adjacent to the sidewalk.
   F.   Clearance from Appurtenances. The nearest edge of any driveway curb cut
shall be at least three feet from the nearest property line (except where the
review authority has approved a shared driveway between two parcels), the
centerline of a fire hydrant, utility pole, drop inlet, and/or appurtenances,
traffic signal installations, or light standards. The nearest edge of any
driveway shall also be at least five feet from the nearest projection of the
installation. Street trees shall be a minimum of ten feet from the driveway
access.
   G.   Sight Distance at Driveways. Each point of access from a parking area
to a street right-of-way shall be constructed and maintained so that any
vehicle entering or leaving the parking area shall be clearly visible at a
distance of not less than ten feet to a person approaching the access point on
a sidewalk or other pedestrian path, or from an approaching vehicle, based on
the criteria in Figure 3-17.
   FIGURE 3-17  
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5799.jpg]
 
   H.   Temporary Access. The director may grant temporary access to
underdeveloped property prior to approval of all development permits required
by this Title, or completion of development, if access is needed for
construction. Temporary accesses are subject to removal, relocation, or
redesign after all permits are approved. (Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.34.100 Loading space requirements.
   A.   Number of Loading Spaces Required. Unless modified/adjusted by the
director in compliance with Section
17.42.030 (Site Plan and Architectural Review), off-street freight and
equipment loading spaces shall be provided for all non-residential uses, except
hotels and motels. The minimum number of loading spaces shown in Table 3-
5 shall be provided for each use.
   TABLE 3-5
REQUIRED NUMBER OF LOADING SPACES
Type of Land Use Gross Floor Area Loading Spaces Required   
Type of Land Use Gross Floor Area         Loading Spaces Required   
Commercial,
manufacturing/
industrial,        Less than 3,000 sq. ft.    0
institutional, and
service uses
               3.001 to 30,000 sq. ft.    1
               30,001 to 90,000 sq. ft.   2
               90,001 to 150,000 sq. ft.  3
               150,001 to 230,000 sq. ft. 4
               More than 230,000 sq. ft.  4, plus 1 space for each
                                              additional 80,000 sq. ft.
Office uses        Less than 25,000 sq. ft.   1
               25,001+ sq. ft.            1, plus additional as
                                              required by Director
 
   Requirements for uses not specifically listed shall be determined by the
director based upon the requirements for comparable uses and upon the
characteristics of the proposed use, in compliance with Section
17.34.040 (Number of Parking Spaces Required).
   B.   Location. Loading spaces shall be located to:
   1.   Be at the rear of the structure being served, consistent with the other
provisions of this subsection;
   2.   Ensure that truck parking and loading activities shall not be visible
from any major public rights-of-way, or from any residential use;
   3.   Ensure that all loading and unloading takes place on-site, and in no
case within adjacent public rights-of-way, or other traffic areas on-site;
   4.   Ensure that all vehicular maneuvers occur on-site; and
   5.   Avoid adverse noise impacts upon any neighboring residential
properties.
   C.   Development Standards for Off-Street Loading. Off-street loading areas
shall be provided in the following manner:
   1.   Dimensions. Required freight and equipment loading spaces shall be not
less than fifteen feet in width, forty-five feet in length, with fourteen feet
of vertical clearance. Loading spaces designed to allow a truck to back up to a
loading dock shall also be provided a clear maneuvering aisle (apron) of forty-
nine feet between the loading space and the nearest obstruction;
   2.   Lighting. Loading areas shall have lighting capable of providing
adequate illumination for security and safety. Lighting standards shall be
energy-efficient and in scale with the height and use of the structure(s). Any
illumination, including security lighting, shall be directed away from
adjoining parcels and public rights-of-way;
   3.   Screening. All loading areas shall be screened from public view by
walls and/or landscaping. Where loading areas on a site cannot be feasibly
accommodated in a location other than adjacent to residentially zoned parcels,
the loading area shall either be entirely enclosed, or shall be screened by a
solid, architecturally treated decorative masonry wall, as approved by the
review authority. All decorative treatments shall occur on both sides of the
wall;
   4.   Loading Doors and Gates. Loading bays and roll-up doors shall be
located on the rear of the structure only. Bays and doors may be located on the
side of a building away from a street frontage where it can be demonstrated
that the bays, doors, and related trucks will be adequately screened from
public view from any street or public right-of-way; and
   5.   Striping. Loading areas shall be striped indicating the loading spaces
and identifying the spaces for "loading only." The striping shall be
permanently maintained by the property owner/tenant in a clear and visible
manner at all times.
Chapter 17.36 SIGNS
17.36.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter establishes uniform sign regulations that are intended to
create a more attractive and economically viable business atmosphere for Pismo
Beach residents and tourists. The standards of this chapter regulate and
control the size, number, location, and structural characteristics of all signs
and sign structures. (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.015 Definitions.
   Sign. Any visual device or representation (written or pictorial) used to
convey information, or to identify, announce, or otherwise direct attention to
a premise, product, service, person, organization, business, or event, and
placed on, suspended from, or in any way attached to, any structure, vehicle,
or landscape feature. Types of signs include:
   1.   Abandoned Sign. A sign that identifies a business, lessor, owner,
product, service, or activity which has been discontinued on the premises for a
period of six months or more.
   2.   Address Sign. The numeric reference of a structure or use to a street,
included as part of a wall or monument sign.
   3.   Animated or Moving Sign. Any sign which uses movement lighting or
special materials to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
   4.   Awning, Canopy, or Marquee Sign. A nonelectric sign that is printed on,
painted on, or attached to an awning, canopy, or marguee.
   5.   Banner Sign. A frameless sign of fabric, vinyl, or similar material,
designed and used for temporary display.
   6.   Bench Sign. Copy painted on any portion of a bus stop bench.
   7.   Billboard or Off-site Sign. A sign structure advertising an
establishment, merchandise, service, or entertainment, which is not sold,
produced, manufactured, or furnished at the property on which the sign is
located.
   8.   Building Face. The exterior walls of a building visible in a single
building elevation, not including sloped roof surfaces.
   9.   Building-mounted, or Wall Sign. A sign painted on or fastened to a
building wall, and which does not project more than twelve inches from the
wall.
   10.   Civic Event Sign. A temporary sign, other than a commercial sign,
posted to advertise a civic event sponsored by a public agency, school, church,
civic-fraternal organization, or similar noncommercial organization.
   11.   Construction Sign. A temporary sign erected on the parcel on which
construction is taking place, limited to the duration of the construction,
indicating the names of the architects, engineers, landscape architects,
contractors, or similar artisans, and the owner, financial supporters,
sponsors, and similar individuals or firms having a major role or interest with
respect to the structure or project.
   12.   Decorative Graphics. Any graphic symbol, logo, monogram, words treated
as a graphic image or other symbolic device that identifies the specific
business, products, or services offered on the premises, or which relates to
the contents of the building-mounted sign.
   13.   Directory Sign. A sign for listing the tenants or occupants and their
suite numbers of a structure or center.
   14.   Double-faced Sign. A single structure monument sign located
perpendicular to the street.
   15.   Exterior-illuminated Sign. Any part of a sign which is illuminated
from an exterior artificial light source mounted on the sign, another
structure, or the ground.
   16.   Flag. The official flag of a government, religious group or other
organization.
   17.   Flashing Sign. A sign that contains an intermittent or sequential
flashing light source.
   18.   Freestanding Sign. A sign with its own support structure, not attached
to any other structure.
   19.   Historic Sign. A sign that is individually culturally significant or
associated with a culturally significant business, building, area, product or
event.
   20.   Holiday Decoration Sign. Temporary signs, in the nature of
decorations, clearly incidental to and customarily associated with holidays.
   21.   Identification Sign. A sign identifying an institution, occupant
apartment, residence, school, or church in a residential zone; or a sign
identifying the name of a business in a commercial zone and not advertising any
product or service.
   22.   Illegal Sign. A sign that was not established or is not being
maintained in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Pismo Beach
Zoning Code or this chapter that applied to the sign at the time it was
installed.
   23.   Illuminated Sign. A sign with an artificial light source incorporated
internally or externally for the purpose of illuminating the sign.
   24.   Institutional Sign. A sign identifying the premises of a church,
school, hospital, rest home, or similar institutional facility.
   25.   Interior-illuminated Sign. Any part of a sign which has text,
graphics, or any portion of the sign face or its outline illuminated by a light
source within the interior of the sign.
   26.   Logo Sign. An established trademark identifying the use of a
structure.
   27.   Marquee. A sign placed on the face of a permanent roofed structure
projecting over the building entrance which is an integral part of the building
(usually a hotel or theater) and is not a fascia extension of the roof or eave.
   28.   Monument Sign. A sign structure detached from a building, with a solid
base located on the ground, as opposed to being supported by poles or open
braces, and six feet or less in height.
   29.   Mural. A painting including images or pictorial representations,
applied directly to the exterior of a commercial building. If these paintings
include advertising copy, trademarks, or business logos, they are instead
considered to be signs.
   30.   Non-appurtenant Sign. Any sign which does not relate to, or which
relates only incidentally to, the occupant of the site or the principal
business conducted within the structure.
   31.   Open/Closed Sign. An "open" or "closed" window sign.
   32.   Open House Sign. A temporary sign posted to indicate a salesperson is
available to represent the property subject to sale, lease, or rent.
   33.   Pedestrian Sign. An identification and/or directional sign designed
and located primarily to inform pedestrians. These signs are usually mounted or
suspended from the underside of an eave or canopy, perpendicular to an adjacent
store front.
   34.   Pole or Pylon Sign. A sign with its message area elevated above the
ground by a single pole, or multiple supports, with a total height of more than
six feet.
   35.   Political Sign. A sign intended to draw attention to, or communicate a
position on any issue, candidate, or measure, that is associated with any
national, state, or local elections, or that is the subject of general public
discussion or debate.
   36.   Price Sign. A sign limited to the name or identification of items or
products for sale on the premises, and the price of the items or products.
   37.   Projecting or Cantilevered Sign. A sign which extends outward from a
building face or wall so that the sign face is perpendicular or at an angle to
the building face or wall.
   38.   Promotional Sign. A temporary sign which serves to promote the sale of
new products, new management, new hours of operation, a new service, or to
promote a special sale.
   39.   Reader Board Sign. A sign that is designed so that message elements or
sign copy may be readily changed through the use of individual letters or
characters, separate panels, or electrical messages.
   40.   Roof Sign. A sign located on or attached to and extending above the
roof covering of a building.
   41.   Temporary Sign. A sign intended or required to be displayed for a
limited period of time.
   42.   Wall Sign. See "Sign - Building-mounted or wall sign."
   43.   Window Sign. A sign displayed within or attached to the interior of a
window, door, or similar opening for the primary purpose of visibility from the
exterior of the building.
   Sign Area. The area in square feet of the smallest simple geometric shape
within which a single sign face can be enclosed. The area of a sign with more
than one face shall be the greatest area of sign faces visible from any one
point.
   Sign Copy. The information content of a sign, including text, illustrations,
logos and trademarks.
   Sign Face. The visible portions of a sign including all characters and
symbols, but not supporting structures.
   Sign Height. The vertical distance from average adjacent ground level to the
top of the sign including the support structure and any design elements. (Ord.
O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.020 Applicability.
   Signs (including advertising copy changes to an existing sigh) shall be
erected or maintained in any zoning district only in compliance with this
chapter. The allowed number and area of signs established by this chapter are
intended to be maximum standards, which do not necessarily ensure architectural
compatibility. Therefore, the review and approval of sign permit in compliance
with Section
17.36.050 shall consider a sign's relationship to the overall appearance of the
site and the surrounding community, in addition to the standards of this
chapter. (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.040 Design objectives.
   The city of Pismo Beach encourages:
   A.   A single sign theme for individual buildings or complexes utilizing
materials including wood, rock, brick, metal, and approved plastic;
   B.   Utilization of symbols;
   C.   Signs in which colors, motifs and subject matters are compatible in
character and quality of design with the exterior architecture of the
structures on the site;
   D.   Placement of signs such that they shall not be allowed to block coastal
views, cause visual clutter that conflicts with the ordered design of coastal
communities, or detract from the natural beauty of the coast;
   E.   A central design theme for city information and directional signs;
   F.   The protection of significant public views and the maintenance of
visual quality of the city to and along the coast; and
   G.   The protection of historical signs. (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.050 Sign permits required.
   A.   Application and Processing. Signs shall only be constructed, displayed
or altered with sign permit (or when located in the coastal zone, a coastal
development permit specific to signs) approval by the director or commission,
as applicable.
   1.   Application Filing. Sign permit applications shall be filed on the
forms provided by the department and shall include all information described in
the city's sign permit application Instructions, and the required filing fee.
   2.   Referral to Building Official. Sign permit applications shall be
reviewed by the building official for a determination as to whether a separate
building, electrical or plumbing permit is required for the sign.
   3.   Review Authority. A sign permit shall be approved or disapproved in
compliance with subsection C below. The director shall review, and approve or
disapprove all sign permits, except permits for the following types of signs,
which shall instead be decided by the commission.
   a.   Alternate Materials. Any sign utilizing materials other than natural
wood, rock or stone, metal, brick, glass tube, or approved plastic.
   b.   Animated or Moving Signs. Signs which contain any component which
moves, rotates, flashes, is otherwise animated, or gives the appearance of any
of these.
   c.   Exceptions. Requests for exceptions to the standards of Sections
17.36.090 (Allowed Number and Area of Signs), or
17.36.100 (Sign Standards).
   d.   More Than Three Signs. Proposed signs on a site with more than three
signs.
   e.   Roof Signs. Signs that are located on or project above the peak of the
roof of a structure.
   f.   Special Purpose Signs. The following signs, provided that the
commission finds that the sign will not be detrimental to adjoining properties
or the safety and appearance of the immediate neighborhood, and that the sign
is consistent with the general purposes and standards of this chapter:
   (1)   Flags. Flags, other than those of any nation, state or local
government, and other than official flags used for warning or other public
service;
   (2)   Murals. Murals on an exterior building wall;
   (3)   Statues. Permanent statues when used as part of an advertising
display;
   (4)   Vehicle Signs. Signs placed on or attached to any vehicle when used
for advertising or directional purposes, except for customary business
identification information painted or attached magnetically on vehicles which
are used in the conduct of the business; and
   (5)   Wind-Affected Devices. Pennants, streamers, bunting, wind-activated
signs, and tethered airborne inflatable signs proposed for time periods longer
than those allowed by Section
17.36.090(D)(1).
   g.   Other Non-Complying Signs. Any other visual device which the director
determines does not comply with the standards, purposes, or objectives of this
chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5801.jpg]
 
   4.   Commission Hearing. The commission shall conduct a public hearing in
compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings) prior to approving or disapproving a sign
permit requiring a commission decision.
   B.   Findings for Approval. The review authority may approve a sign permit
application in whole or in part, with or without conditions, only if the
following findings are made:
   1.   The proposed sign is permitted within the zoning district and complies
with all applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other applicable
standards;
   2.   The sign primarily identifies the business name and does not list
multiple products or services;
   3.   The sign is in proper proportion to the structure or site on which it
is located and as an identification device, does not excessively compete for
the public's attention;
   4.   The sign materials, color, texture, size, shape, height, and placement
are harmonious with the design of the structure, property and neighborhood of
which it is a part;
   5.   The sign's illumination is at the lowest reasonable level as determined
by the director, which ensures adequate identification and readability, and is
directed solely at the sign or is internal to it; and
   6.   The sign is not detrimental to the public interest, health, safety, or
welfare.
   C.   Conditions of Approval. In granting the approval of any sign permit,
the commission may impose any conditions or modifications it determines are
necessary or appropriate to secure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Changes to an Approved Sign Permit. Changes to an approved sign permit
may be approved in compliance with Section
17.44.060 (Changes to an Approved Project). (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011;
Ord. 02-09 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2002)
17.36.060 Exempt signs.
   The following signs shall not require a sign permit nor shall the area of
the signs be included in the maximum sign area permitted for any site or use:
   A.   Directional and Information Signs. Signs containing site or operations
information without advertising, and not exceeding three square feet in area or
three feet in height, including: name plates; directional signs including
"entrance," "exit," "office," "open" or "closed;" signs with the name and
address of the occupant; or directional arrows designed to be viewed by on-site
pedestrians or motorists.
   B.   Flags. Official flags of any nation, state, or local government, an
American, California, or city flag. The height of the flag pole shall comply
with the requirements of the applicable zoning district in Article II (Zoning
Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards), and
Chapter 17.20 (Height Measurement and Height Limit Exceptions).
   C.   Memorial Signs/Plaques. Memorial signs, historic markers, and
commemorative plaques, and other decorative architectural features constructed
as an integral part of a building.
   D.   Political Signs. Political signs pertaining to an election for public
office, or to a ballot measure to be placed before the voters in a federal,
state, or local election, in place prior to or on the day of the election and
in compliance with the following requirements:
   1.   Total sign area shall not exceed three square feet per sign in all
zoning districts and on any signs attached to or displayed from a vehicle or
trailer on private property;
   2.   Signs shall not be illuminated;
   3.   The signs shall not be installed more than forty-five days before the
election and shall be removed within seven days after the election;
   4.   The signs shall not be located within one hundred feet of any polling
place on election day;
   5.   Adhesive signs shall not be placed on structures in any location other
than on a glass surface; and
   6.   The signs shall not be placed without the written consent of the
property owner.
   E.   Public/Governmental Signs. Any information or safety signs installed by
a governmental agency or public utility, including street signs, traffic
regulating signs and devices, railroad crossing signs, signs indicating the
location of underground utilities, and similar signs.
   F.   Real Estate Signs. Non-illuminated temporary real estate signs are
allowed in compliance with California Civil Code Section 713, with a maximum
area of six square feet, pertaining only to the site on which the sign is
located. Four additional temporary, off-site signs are also allowed for an open
house only.
   G.   Temporary Signs. The following temporary signs are exempt from permit
requirements; all other temporary signs shall require a sign permit and shall
be subject to all standards applicable to permanent signs.
   1.   Balloon Displays. Helium balloon displays, limited to no more than one
day, where the balloons are tethered no higher than eight feet above the ground
and at least eight feet from the curb of any adjacent street.
   2.   Hazard Signs. Temporary signs warning of construction, excavation, or
similar hazards as long as the hazard exists.
   3.   Holiday Displays. Temporary holiday displays and signs for decoration
rather than advertising and customarily associated with national, local, or
religious holidays. These signs shall be removed within fourteen days after the
holiday.
   4.   Special Event Signs. One temporary special event sign per business,
provided that the sign does not exceed twelve square feet in area, and is
displayed only during the period of a city-sanctioned special event.
   5.   Window Signs. Signs attached temporarily to the interior of a building
window or door for a maximum of thirty days, provided that the signs comply
with the provisions of Section
17.36.090 (Allowed Number and Area of Signs). Window signs may be in place for
more than thirty days with sign permit approval.
   H.   Time and Temperature Signs. Time and temperature signs which contain no
advertising, do not exceed thirty square feet in total area, and are no higher
than the nearest structure. (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.070 Prohibited signs.
   The following signs are inconsistent with the purposes and standards of this
chapter, and are therefore prohibited:
   A.   Abandoned signs;
   B.   Bench signs;
   C.   Billboards and other off-site signs;
   D.   Signs on public property, or in or over a public right-of-way; except
for traffic and street identification signs, and projecting signs with an
encroachment permit; that are less than eight feet above the right-of-way
(sidewalk), that are less than two feet from the street curb, and that exceed
twenty-four square feet in area;
   E.   Any sign attached or placed adjacent to any utility pole, or any
traffic sign, signal, or control device, in compliance with California Vehicle
Code Section 21464;
   F.   Signs painted on fences or roofs;
   G.   Signs that simulate in color or design a traffic sign or signal, or
which make use of words, symbols or characters in a manner to interfere with,
mislead or confuse pedestrian or vehicular traffic; and
   H.   Pole/pylon signs, except in compliance with Section
17.36.090(C)(1)(d). (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.080 Measurement of sign area and height.
   For the purposes of determining compliance with this chapter, the area and
height of signs shall be measured as provided by this section.
   A.   Sign Area. Sign area shall be measured as the area in square feet of
the smallest simple geometric shape within which a single sign face can be
enclosed. The total area of the sign shall include all sign faces. See Figures
3-19 and 3-21.
   B.   Sign Height. Sign height shall be measured as the vertical distance
from grade adjacent to the sign footing, to the top of the sign, including the
support structure and any design elements. See Figure 3-20.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5803.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5805.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5807.jpg]
 
(Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.090 Allowed number and area of signs.
   The signs described in this section may be allowed only on the same site as
the use being advertised or identified. Exceptions to these standards may be
granted through the approval of a sign permit by the planning commission in
compliance with Section
17.36.050(A)(2) (Sign Permits Required).
   A.   Signs within All Zoning Districts. The following signs may be allowed
with sign permit approval in all zoning districts.
   1.   Civic Event Sign. A temporary civic event sign may be authorized by the
director for announcing a civic event within the city of a general public
nature for not more than thirty days before and not more than five days after
the period during which the event takes place.
   2.   Construction Sign. One temporary non-illuminated sign, advertising the
various construction trades participating in the project. On a site less than
one acre, the sign shall not exceed thirty-two square feet in sign area or six
feet in height. On a parcel of land of one acre or more, the sign shall not
exceed fifty square feet in sign area or six feet in height. The sign shall be
allowed to remain until the last unit is sold, rented, or leased.
   3.   Temporary Subdivision Signs. A temporary subdivision sign declaring a
group of parcels, dwellings or occupancies within a subdivision for sale, rent
or lease shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
   a.   One on-site sign shall be permitted for each street frontage;
   b.   The sign area shall not exceed fifty square feet, or exceed six feet
above the level of the street;
   c.   The sign shall be unlighted;
   d.   In the case of a corner lot, the sign shall not obstruct the vision of
motorists by being located within the traffic safety visibility area of the
parcel, which shall consist of a triangular area formed by measuring thirty-
five feet from the intersection of the street property lines, and connecting
the lines across the parcel; and
   e.   The sign may remain on the property until the last unit is sold, rented
or leased for the first time after construction.
   B.   Residential District Signs. The following signs may be allowed with
sign permit approval within a residential zoning district, provided that any of
the following shall not be illuminated when located within the RSL district:
   1.   Small Residential Projects. Residential projects containing four or
more dwelling units may be permitted one identification sign with a maximum
area of eight square feet and a maximum height of five feet;
   2.   Planned Residential Developments. A planned residential development of
twenty-five or more units may be permitted one sign larger than that allowed by
subsection (B)(1)(a) above, provided that the aggregate sign area does not
exceed thirty square feet, and the sign does not exceed five feet in height;
   3.   Multi-Family Projects and Mobile Home Parks. Multi-family dwelling
projects and mobile home parks may be permitted one identification sign for
each major street entrance to the project, with a maximum area of twelve square
feet and a maximum height of four feet.
   C.   Commercial District Signs. The following signs may be allowed with sign
permit approval within the commercial zoning districts.
   1.   General Requirements.
   a.   Size and Height. The maximum area and height of signs allowed within
the commercial districts, including any signs painted on exterior building
walls, shall comply with Figures 3-22 and 3-23, except that a monument sign
shall not exceed one-half the height allowed for other freestanding signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5809.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5811.jpg]
 
   b.   Number of Signs. No more than three signs shall be allowed for each
business. No more than one of the signs may be freestanding without commission
approval of the Sign Permit.
   c.   Sign Placement-Freestanding Signs. Freestanding signs may be placed
within required setbacks.
   d.   Pole/Pylon Signs. Pole or pylon signs may be allowed only on parcels
which abut the Highway 101 right-of-way or frontage road in compliance with
General Plan Policy D-29. See subsection (C)(3).
   e.   Signs on Buildings with Multiple Frontages. When a business fronts on
two or more streets and/or a vacant lot, the total allowed sign area shall
comply with Figure 3-22, and that total sign area shall be assigned to each
building wall proposed to have signs at a ratio of one square foot of sign area
for each lineal foot of building wall on that frontage.
   2.   Awnings and Canopies. Awnings and canopies with advertising are allowed
as follows, and shall be included in the total sign area allowed for attached
signs by Figure 3-22.
   a.   Measurement of Sign Area. The area of an awning or canopy sign shall be
the area in square feet of the smallest rectangle, or a series of rectangles
when the copy is of irregular geometry, that encloses the copy on the awning.
   b.   Height Limit. The height of awnings and canopies shall not exceed the
height of the wall on which they are mounted, or the lowest point of the roof
structure.
   c.   Clearance from Sidewalk. Awnings and canopies shall be designed and
installed to maintain a minimum height clearance of eight feet between the
sidewalk and the lowest point of the awning or canopy.
   d.   Maximum Projection from Building. Awnings and canopies shall not extend
more than five feet from the building nor closer than two feet to the curb of
the adjacent street.
   e.   Design. All awnings and canopies on a single building shall have
similar shapes, design styles, and color.
   f.   Encroachment Permit. Awnings and canopies projecting over a public
right-of-way shall require the approval of an encroachment permit by the public
works department.
   3.   Freeway-Oriented and Planning Area H Business Signs. Freeway oriented
businesses (for example, service stations, motels, restaurants, and similar
uses) adjacent to freeway intersections and within two hundred feet of a
freeway on- or off-ramp and the planning area H area may be granted additional
sign area and height by the commission, where the commission determines that
freeway visibility is essential for the viability of the business. If approved
by the commission, signs with additional area and/or height shall be no higher
than necessary to be visible to passing motorists from a reasonable distance. A
visual impact analysis of any proposed pole sign within two hundred feet of a
freeway on or off ramp shall be required to determine the appropriate minimum
height for freeway visibility no more than one mile from the closest off ramp
to the affected business. A visual impact analysis of any proposed pole sign in
planning area H shall be required to determine the appropriate maximum height
for freeway visibility above the Highway 101 southbound elevation closest to
the subject application site.
   4.   Marquee Signs. Marquee signs shall not exceed twenty-four square feet
on each face.
   5.   Murals. Exterior wall murals are allowed without being included in the
maximum area of attached signs established by Figure 3-22, provided that the
mural is a painting which includes images or pictorial elements, but does not
include trademarks, logos, or advertising copy, except logos which are
determined by the commission to have historical significance. A mural shall not
be permitted on the same wall in connection with commercial signs.
   6.   Projecting or Cantilevered Signs. Projecting or cantilevered signs
extending over sidewalks shall have a minimum clearance above the sidewalk of
eight feet, and shall not extend outward over the sidewalk more than five feet
from the building, nor closer than two feet from the street curb. These signs
shall not extend above the height of the building wall or above the roof line,
and shall not exceed twenty-four square feet in area. Projecting signs require
encroachment permit approval by the public works director.
   7.   Window Signs. Signs mounted in, painted on, or otherwise affixed to
windows so that they will be visible from the exterior of the structure are
allowed as follows. Window signs which conform with the provisions of this
subsection are allowed without a sign permit.
   a.   Maximum Area. Window signs shall not exceed sixty percent of the area
of any window. Temporary window signs shall not be included in the total area
of attached signs allowed by Figure 3-22.
   b.   Location. Temporary window signs shall not be located above the ground
floor.
   c.   Content. The subject matter of window signs shall be related
specifically to: the name of the business and/or proprietor; address, phone
number, and hours of operation; temporary advertising and sales announcements;
special community event announcements; and prices.
   D.   Temporary Signs. Temporary signs are allowed as follows, in addition to
the total area of signs permitted by subsection (C)(1)(a) above.
   1.   Pennants and Inflatables. Temporary pennants and inflatable decorations
may be authorized with sign permit approval for a maximum of eight weeks
following the issuance of a business license for a new business.
   2.   Banners. Banners shall comply with the following standards:
   a.   Maximum Area. Banner signs shall not exceed a maximum area of 60 square
feet;
   b.   Number of Banners. No more than one banner shall be permitted per
business;
   b.   Materials. Permissible materials for banners shall be limited to fabric
or vinyl; and
   d.   Anchoring. Banners shall be designed and installed in a secure manner
so as to not be blown free from their moorings by wind.
   e.   Permitted Time. A maximum of eight weeks per year banner use unrelated
to a business opening is permitted. A sign permit is required for each period
of use within the eight week limitation.
   3.   Opening Business Signs.
   a.   A temporary banner or other sign announcing the opening of a new
business may be permitted by the director without a sign permit for a maximum
of one month before and one month after the opening of the business.
   b.   A temporary fabric or vinyl sign face that covers an existing sign may
be permitted by the director without a sign permit for a maximum of eight
weeks.
   c.   In order to qualify for the exemptions from sign permit requirements
provided by this subsection, the owner or operator of the business shall notify
the director in writing at the time of, or prior to, the issuance of the
business license of the dates during which the temporary signs will be in
place. (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011; Ord. 02-09 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2002)
17.36.100 Sign standards.
   All signs shall comply with the following standards. Exceptions to these
standards may be granted through the approval of a sign permit by the planning
commission in compliance with Section
17.36.050(A)(2) (Sign Permits Required).
   A.   Hazard Avoidance. No sign shall be installed so as to:
   1.   Obstruct any fire escape, required exit, window, or door;
   2.   Interfere with any opening required for ventilation; or
   3.   Obstruct the visibility necessary for ingress or egress onto a public
right-of-way.
   B.   Required Clearances. Signs shall maintain required clearances from
electrical lines, communications lines and equipment, and surface and
underground facilities for water, sewerage, and gas.
   C.   Supports for Projecting Signs. Visible angle iron, chain supports, or
other frames supporting projecting signs are prohibited, except structures
integral to the aesthetic design of the sign.
   D.   Illumination. No part of any sign shall exceed a brightness of four
hundred foot lamberts measured from the face of the sign at the brightest
point, color and cosine corrected. Open, unshielded light bulbs and light
sources, except for neon tubing, are prohibited. Lighting shall be installed to
avoid glare or reflection onto adjacent property or onto a street so as to
create a traffic hazard. Light sources shall be steady, stationary, shielded,
and directed so as to avoid undue glare for pedestrians, motorists, and
neighboring property.
   E.   Quality and Maintenance. Signs shall be maintained in good condition,
free from chipped or peeling paint, rust, structural disrepair, or any other
visible indication of deterioration. At least eighty percent of the lighted
portion of any sign shall be functional at all times. The director may require
any improperly maintained sign to be repaired or removed upon the failure of
the owner to remedy the condition. Repairs shall be made within thirty days of
the receipt of a written notice from the director. (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part),
2011)
17.36.110 Sign design guidelines.
   A.   Purpose. The sign design guidelines in this section are intended to
provide direction to property owners and project designers in understanding the
general plan's goals for maintaining high quality development that is sensitive
to the city's unique character.
   B.   Applicability. The guidelines in this section complement the mandatory
sign standards in the other sections of this chapter, and will be used during
the site plan and architectural review process as criteria to review projects
requiring design approval.
   1.   The provisions of this chapter apply to all sign development projects
within the city that require the approval of a Sign Permit in compliance with
Section
17.36.050 unless otherwise exempted.
   2.   These design guidelines may be interpreted with some flexibility in
their application to specific sign projects as not all design criteria may be
workable or appropriate for each project. In some circumstances, a guideline
may be relaxed in order to accomplish another, more important guideline. The
overall objective is to ensure that the intent and spirit of the design
guidelines are followed. The ultimate goal of the design review process is to
attain the best possible design within reason.
   C.   General Guidelines. The following general design guidelines should be
considered prior to developing signs for any project.
   1.   Sign Placement.
   a.   A sign should enhance a building's architecture and not dominate the
elevation on which it is placed. Signs should be consistent with the
proportions and scale of the elements within the building's facade. A
particular sign may fit well on a larger, plain wall area, but might overpower
the finer scale and proportion of a small shop. Likewise, a sign that is
appropriate near an entry may look tiny and out of place above the ground
level.
   b.   Study the facade of the structure to determine if there are any
architectural features or details that suggest a location, size, or shape for
the sign(s). These could be bands or frames of brickwork, cornice lines,
indentations or projections in the face material, gaps between columns, or
other permanent features. If these details exist, use them to locate the sign
(s).
   c.   Do not locate signs so that they cover architectural features (e.g.,
windows, decorative columns, cornice bands, etc.) that may be important to the
structure's overall design.
   d.   Look at the facade of the building in relation to where adjacent
businesses have placed their signs. There may be an established pattern of sign
locations. Consistent placement of signs establishes visual continuity among
the storefronts, and at the same time provides uniform sight lines for viewers.
   e.   The use of neon for downtown and Shell Beach commercial signs shall be
encouraged. Internally illuminated, "can-type" signs shall be discouraged. When
can-type signs are used the lettering should be illuminated instead of the
background to the lettering.
   2.   Color.
   a.   Color is one of the most important aspects of visual communication. It
can be used to catch the eye or to communicate ideas or feelings. Too many
colors used simultaneously can confuse and negate the message of a sign. The
number of colors should be limited to two or three on any one sign. Small
accents of several colors can make a sign unique and attractive, but the
competition of large areas of different colors decreases readability.
   b.   Contrast is an important influence on the legibility of signs. Light
letters on a dark background or dark letters on a light background are most
legible.
   c.   Colors or color combinations that interfere with legibility of the sign
copy or that interfere with viewer identification of other signs should be
avoided. Bright day-glo (fluorescent) colors or brilliant luminescent colors
should be avoided as they are distracting and do not usually blend well with
colors on structures or other background colors.
   d.   Sign colors should complement the colors used on the structures and the
project as a whole.
   3.   Materials.
   a.   Sign materials should be compatible with the design theme and use of
materials on the building where the sign is to be placed. The use of a chrome
and glass contemporary sign on a rustic or historic building would be as
inappropriate as a rustic carved wood sign on a modern building design of steel
and glass.
   b.   The selected materials should contribute to the legibility of the sign.
For example, glossy finishes are often difficult to read because of glare and
reflections.
   c.   Except for individually mounted channel letters, internally-illuminated
plastic-faced cabinet signs are strongly discouraged.
   d.   Neon tubes are a popular sign material and can contribute to the
nighttime ambiance of an area. However, care must be taken when using neon,
because of its brightness and attention-attracting properties. Not more than
one wall-mounted or window neon sign should be used on the same facade of a
building.
   4.   Sign Legibility.
   a.   Signs should use a brief message whenever possible. The fewer the
words, the more effective the sign. A sign with a brief, succinct message is
easier to read and looks more attractive.
   b.   Use symbols and logos in the place of words whenever appropriate.
Pictographic images will usually register more quickly in the viewer's mind
than a written message. See Figure 3-24.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5813.jpg]
 
   c.   Avoid spacing letters and words too close together. Crowding of
letters, words, or lines will make any sign more difficult to read. As a
general rule, letters (sign copy) should not occupy more than seventy-five
percent of sign panel area. See Figure 3-25.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5815.jpg]
 
   d.   Limit the number of lettering styles used on a sign in order to
increase legibility. A general rule to follow is to limit the number of
different letter types to no more than two for small signs and up to three for
larger signs. See Figure 3-24.
   e.   Avoid hard-to-read, overly intricate typefaces and symbols. Typefaces
and symbols that are difficult to read reduce the sign's ability to
communicate.
   f.   Avoid faddish or bizarre typefaces if they are difficult to read. The
image conveyed by the sign may quickly become that of a dated and unfashionable
business.
   5.   Sign Illumination.
   a.   If the sign can be illuminated by an indirect source of light, the sign
will be more compatible and integrated with the building's architecture. Light
fixtures supported in front of the structure cast light on the sign and
generally a portion of the face of the structure as well. Indirect lighting
emphasizes the continuity of the building's surface and signs become an
integral part of the facade.
   b.   Internally illuminated cabinet signs may have some advantage over signs
with indirect/external illumination in that the fixtures are protected from
weather and vandals, and the sign cabinet has a cleaner profile, uncluttered by
the struts of most indirect lighting systems. Conversely, there is the
disadvantage that when lighted, the cabinet sign alone becomes bright,
separating it from the building's surface. The sign then becomes an element
that is obviously attached to the facade of the structure rather than a part of
it. As a result, this type of sign can disrupt the continuity of the facade and
is, therefore, discouraged.
   c.   Whenever indirect lighting fixtures are used (fluorescent or
incandescent), the light source shall be shaded, shielded, subdued, or directed
so that the intensity of the light does not impact surrounding properties.
Signs should be lighted only to the minimum level required for nighttime
readability. See Figure 3-26.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5818.jpg]
 
   d.   Individually illuminated letters, either internally illuminated or
back-lighted solid letters, are a preferred alternative to internally
illuminated cabinet signs. Signs comprised of individual letters mounted
directly on a structure can often use a distinctive element of the building's
facade as a backdrop, thereby providing a better integration of the sign with
the structure. See Figure 3-27.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5820.jpg]
 
   e.   The use of neon for downtown and Shell Beach commercial signs shall be
encouraged. Internally illuminated, "can- type" signs shall be discouraged.
When can-type signs are used the lettering should be illuminated instead of the
background to the lettering. (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.120 Nonconforming signs.
   This section recognizes that the eventual elimination of existing signs that
are not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter is as important as
the prohibition of new signs that would violate these regulations.
   A.   Continuation of Nonconforming Sign. A legally established sign that
does not conform to the provisions of this chapter may continue to be used, and
be maintained and repaired, provided that:
   1.   The aggregate cost of repairs does not exceed fifty percent of its
value, as determined by the building official; the methodology to determine
fifty percent of the sign value requires a procedure where two separate sign
companies are contracted, with funds supplied by applicant, to prepare two sets
of estimates one for repair the other for replacement of subject sign. The
average of one set of estimates will determine the cost to repair or
reconstruct the sign. The average of the other set of estimates will determine
what it would cost to altogether replace the damaged sign (including
installation costs). The cost to repair/reconstruct will be divided by the
replacement cost. If this ratio is equal to or greater than one-half, the non-
conforming sign will be said to have been substantially damaged and must be
brought into compliance with the code.
   The following equation illustrates this formula:
 
(Repair or reconstruction cost of sign*)   Extent of
(Replacement cost of sign, including installation*) =   Damage
 
*as determined by the average of 2 estimates from 2 sign companies - -
 
 
   EXTENT OF DAMAGE                                        > 0.5,   sign is significantly damaged and must be brought into
IF   (Cost to Repair or Reconstruct divided by the Cost to compliance
Replace
 
Example: Two separate sign companies provide estimates to both repair and
replace a damaged sign. Company A says that the sign can be repaired for four
hundred dollars and replaced for six hundred fifty dollars. Company B says that
the sign can be repaired for four hundred fifty dollars and replaced for five
hundred dollars. Therefore, the average cost to repair the sign is four hundred
twenty-five dollars and the average cost to replace the sign is five hundred
seventy-five dollars. To determine the extent of damage we divide the cost to
repair the sign by the replacement cost and get a ratio of 0.74. The sign would
be determined to be substantially damaged and required to be brought into
compliance; and
   2.   No structural modifications to the sign or support structure shall be
permitted.
   B.   Sign Copy Changes. The sign copy and sign faces of a nonconforming sign
may be changed when there is no change in the use of the site or when only a
portion of a multiple-tenant sign is being changed.
   C.   Correction of Nonconformities Required. Nonconforming signs shall be
removed or brought into conformity with the provisions of this chapter within
sixty days after written notice from the director when:
   1.   The sign is damaged or otherwise needs reconstruction or repair equal
to or greater than fifty percent of its replacement value;
   2.   Changes are approved to the structure, use, occupancy, or tenant; or
   3.   The business is discontinued or abandoned for a period of three years.
These abandoned signs shall be deemed in violation of this Zoning Code and a
public nuisance. Thereafter, no business shall be permitted or licensed on the
site until the signs conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Nonconformities under prior ordinance. Signs which were nonconforming
under the provisions of Ordinance No. 320, effective December 14, 1983, and
which do not comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be abated
according to the schedule for these signs established in Ordinance No. 320, and
the enactment of this chapter shall in no way extend the original time limit
for abatement. (Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011)
17.36.130 Abatement of illegal signs.
   Whenever a sign is found to be in violation of any provision of this Zoning
Code or an approved sign permit, the director may order that the sign be
altered, repaired, reconstructed, or removed, as the director may determine is
appropriate to abate the condition.
   A.   Time Limit. Any work required by the director shall be completed within
thirty days of the order, or other longer period authorized by the director in
writing.
   B.   Revocation of Sign Permit. Failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with
an abatement order shall be sufficient basis for the director to revoke any
sign permit granted in compliance with this chapter.
   C.   Removal of Sign. The building official is hereby empowered and
authorized to remove or cause to be removed, at the owner's expense, any sign
erected or maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Penalty for Violations. Continuing violations of this chapter are
hereby declared to be infractions, and may be subject to the issuance of a
citation.
Chapter 17.38 STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC LAND USES
17.38.010 Purpose and applicability.
   A.   Purpose. This chapter provides site planning and development standards
for land uses that are allowed by Article II of this Zoning Code (Zoning
Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards) in multiple zoning
districts (e.g., in residential and commercial districts).
   B.   Applicability. Land uses covered by this chapter shall conform with the
provisions of the section(s) applicable to the specific use, in addition to
other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
17.38.020 Accessory retail uses.
   Retail sales and services, including but not limited to restaurants,
pharmacies, and the sale of retail merchandise, are allowed accessory to a
primary use where authorized by Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land
Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards), and as follows:
   A.   General Standard. Accessory retail uses are permitted, provided there
will be no external evidence of any commercial activity other than the primary
use of the site (e.g., no signs, or windows with merchandise visible from
adjoining streets), nor access to any space used for the accessory retail use
other than from within the structure.
   B.   Commercial Zoning Districts. Restaurants and retail sales are permitted
in the commercial zoning districts incidental and accessory to offices,
hospitals and other medical facilities; pharmacies are permitted accessory to
hospitals and other medical facilities.
   C.   Residential and Special Purpose Zoning Districts. Membership
organizations, social or recreational establishments may engage in retail sales
for guests only.
   D.   Director Review and Approval. All accessory retail uses shall be
subject to review and approval by the director in compliance with Section
17.42.020 (Zoning Clearance). In order to approve an accessory retail use, the
director shall first find that there will be no harm to adjacent existing or
potential residential development due to excessive traffic, noise, or other
adverse effects generated by the accessory use.
17.38.030 Adult entertainment establishments.
   Where allowed by Section
17.12.030 (Commercial District Land Uses and Permit Requirements) in the CG
zoning district, any adult business as defined by Article VI of this Zoning
Code shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
   A.   Purposes. This section is intended to prevent the adverse effects,
including adverse economic impacts, increased crime, decreased property values,
and the deterioration of neighborhoods, that can result from the concentration
or clustering of adult businesses. It has been demonstrated in various
communities, and such demonstrations are relevant to the city of Pismo Beach,
that when several adult businesses are located in close proximity to each other
or are close to other incompatible uses such as schools for minors, churches,
and residentially-zoned districts or uses, the concentration of adult- oriented
businesses causes an increase in the number of transients in the area, an
increase in crime and, in addition to the above impacts, can cause other
businesses and residents to move elsewhere.
   Therefore, the purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of adult-oriented businesses
and their close proximity to incompatible uses, while permitting the location
of adult-oriented businesses in certain areas.
   B.   Finding. Performance standards are a legitimate and reasonable means of
ensuring that adult businesses are conducted in a manner so as to minimize
their adverse secondary effects and to help assure that such operators and
businesses comply with reasonable regulations related to such requirements, to
minimize control problems associated with such businesses and thereby protect
the health, safety and welfare of city residents, protect citizens from
increased crime, preserve the quality of life, preserve property values and the
character of surrounding neighborhoods and businesses, and deter the spread of
urban blight. The performance standards contained in this chapter do not
unreasonably restrict the establishment or operation of constitutionally
protected adult businesses in the city.
   The city council, in adopting performance standards, recognizes that these
standards do not preclude reasonable alternative avenues of communication. The
city council takes note of the proliferation of adult material on the Internet
and its availability as an alternative avenue of communication. The city
council also considers and relies on published decisions examining the
proliferation of communications on the Internet (Reno v. American Civil
Liberties Union, 521 U.S. 844; Anheuser-Busch v. Schmoke, 101 F. 3d 325; U.S.
v. Hockings, 129 F. 3d 1069; U.S. Thomas, 74 F. 3d 701). The emergence of the
Internet brings with it a virtually unlimited additional source of adult-
oriented sexual materials available to interested persons in every community.
An adult business no longer has to be physically located in a city to be
available in the community.
   C.   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to uses operated as
adult businesses, as defined in
Chapter 17.62, in addition to all other applicable requirements of this Zoning
Code. The establishment of an adult use shall include the opening of such
business as a new business, the relocation of such business, the conversion of
an existing business location to any adult use, or the granting of permits
required of masseurs and masseuses which would have the effect of the
establishment of an adult use or the intensification of an existing adult use.
   D.   Location Requirements. Adult businesses shall be located no closer
than:
   1.   Five hundred feet to any:
   a.   Property in a residential zoning district,
   b.   Child day care facility,
   c.   School attended by minor children,
   d.   Park, playground,
   e.   Religious place of worship,
   f.   Public building or other public facility likely to be used by minors;
existing as of the date of adoption of ordinance; or
   2.   One thousand feet to any other adult business.
   Exemption: Adult businesses may be located within a shopping center, even
when the business site does not meet the distance requirement in paragraph 1,
above.
   E.   Measurement. For the purpose of this chapter, all distances shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard for intervening structures, using
the closest property lines of the parcels of the land involved.
   F.   Design and Performance Standards. The establishment or operation of an
adult business shall comply with the applicable fees and site development
standards, including, but not limited to, parking and design review, and the
requirements of the Uniform Codes and building regulations and standards
adopted by the city of Pismo Beach.
   An adult business shall comply with the following design and performance
standards:
   1.   Signs and Advertising. Signs, advertisements, displays, or other
promotional materials depicting or describing "specified anatomical areas" or
"specified sexual activities", as defined in
Chapter 17.62, or displaying instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are
designed for use in connection with "specified sexual activities" shall not be
shown or exhibited so as to be discernible by the public beyond the walls of
the building or portion thereof in which the adult entertainment business is
conducted. 2. Entrances. Each adult business shall have a business entrance
separate from any other nonadult business located in the same building.
   3.   Screening.
   a.   All building openings, entries, and windows for an adult entertainment
business shall be located, covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent a
view into the interior of an adult entertainment business from any area open to
the general public.
   b.   No adult entertainment business shall be operated in any manner that
permits the observation by the public of any material or activity depicting,
describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" from any public way or from any location beyond the walls of
the building or portion thereof in which the adult entertainment business is
conducted.
   5.   Prohibition of Minors--Posting. The building entrance to the adult
entertainment business shall be clearly and legibly posted with a notice
indicating that minors are precluded from entering the premises. No persons
under the age of
eighteen years shall be permitted within the premises at any time.
   6.   Noise. No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used by an adult
business for amplification of sound to a level discernible by the public beyond
the wails of the building or portion thereof in which the adult entertainment
business is conducted.
   7.   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided for the adult
entertainment business in compliance with
Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading).
   8.   Operating Standards. See Title 5 of the Municipal Code for additional
requirements for businesses providing live entertainment depicting specified
anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities.
   9.   Security Program. An off-site security program shall be prepared and
implemented including the following:
   All off-street parking areas and building entries serving the adult
entertainment business shall be illuminated during all hours of operation with
a lighting system which provides a minimum maintained horizontal illumination
of one foot-candle (ten luxes, one candlepower) of light on the parking surface
and/or walkway. The required lighting level is established to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas ands walkways serving the adult
business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to reduce the
incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct.
   G.   Application Requirements. In addition to the submittal of a business
license application to the finance department, the following must be submitted
to the police department for a determination of compliance with Title 9 of the
Municipal Code:
   1.   The name and permanent address of applicant;
   2.   The name and proposed business address of the applicant. If the
applicant is a corporation, the name be exactly as set forth in its articles of
incorporation and the applicant shall show the name and residence address of
each of the officers, directors, and each stockholder owning not less than
twenty-five percent of the stock of the corporation. If the applicant is a
partnership, the application shall show the name and residence address of each
of the members, including limited partners;
   3.   A detailed description of the proposed entertainment, including type of
entertainment and number of persons engaged in the entertainment;
   4.   A diagram of the premises showing a floor plan thereof specifying where
the specific entertainment uses are proposed to be conducted within the
building, the location of one or more manager's stations, the location of all
overhead lighting, fixtures, and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted;
   5.   Hours of operation and the admission fee, if any, to be charged;
   6.   The name or names of the person or persons who have the management of
supervision responsibilities of the applicant's business and of any
entertainment;
   7.   A statement of the nature and character of the applicant's business if
any, to be carried on in conjunction with such entertainment;
   8.   A site area map showing the proposed business location and plotting of
all uses listed.
   9.   A mailing list of all property owners within one thousand feet of the
proposed business location.
   Prior to the issuance of a police clearance, the police department shall
complete a background investigation of all parties identified in (G)(l) and (G)
(2) above.
   H.   Inspections. An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of
the police, health, building, fire, and public services departments, or other
city departments or agencies, to inspect the premises of an adult business for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law and the development standards
applicable to adult business, at any time it is occupied or opened for
business. A person who operates an adult business or his or her agent or
employee is in violation of the provisions of this section if he or she refuses
to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or
opened for business.
   I.   Amortization of Nonconforming Adult Oriented Uses. Any use of real
property existing on or before the date when this amendment becomes effective
that did not conform to the provisions of this section, but which was
constructed, operated and maintained in compliance with all previous
regulations, shall be regarded as a nonconforming use which may be continued
until two years from date of adoption. On or before such date, all such
nonconforming uses shall be terminated unless an extension of time has been
approved by the hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
J, below.
   1.   Abandonment. Notwithstanding the above, any discontinuance or
abandonment of the use of any lot or structure as an adult oriented business
shall result in a loss of legal nonconforming status of such use.
   2.   Amortization: Annexed Property. Any adult oriented business which was
in legal use at the time of annexation of the property and which is located in
the city, but which does not conform to the provisions of this section shall be
terminated within one year of the date of annexation unless an extension of
time has been approved in accordance with the by provisions of paragraph J,
below.
   J.   Extension of Time for Termination of Nonconforming Use. The owner or
operator of a nonconforming adult business use as described in paragraph I,
above, may apply under the provisions of this section for an extension of time
within which to terminate the nonconforming use.
   1.   Time and Manner of Application. An application for an extension of time
within which to terminate a use made nonconforming by the provisions of this
section may be filed by the owner of the real property upon which such use is
operated, or by the operator of the use. Such an application must be filed with
the city clerk at least thirty days but no more than one hundred eighty days
prior to the time established in paragraph I, above, for termination of such
use or within sixty days of the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter, whichever date is the last to occur.
   2.   Content of Application: Fees. The application shall state the grounds
for requesting an extension of time. The filing fee for such application shall
be the same as that for a variance as is set forth in the schedule of fees
established by resolution from time to time by the city council.
   3.   Hearing Procedure. The city manager or his/her designee shall set the
matter for hearing by the planning commission within a reasonable time. Pending
a final determination on the application, the applicant may continue to
operate, but such right does not excuse compliance with regulatory provisions
of the Pismo Beach Municipal Code. All parties involved shall have the right to
offer testimonial, documentary and tangible evidence bearing on the issues and
may be represented by counsel. Any relevant evidence may be admitted that is
the sort of evidence upon which reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in
the conduct of serious affairs. Any hearing under this section may be continued
for a reasonable time for the convenience of a party or a witness. The decision
of the planning commission may be appealed to the city council. Any decision of
the city council shall be final and subject to judicial review pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1094.8.
   4.   Approval of Extension: Findings. An extension under the provisions of
this section shall be for a reasonable period of time commensurate with the
investment involved, not to exceed two years, and shall be approved only if the
planning commission makes all of the following findings or such other findings
as are required by law:
   a.   The applicant has made a substantial investment (including but not
limited to lease obligations) in the property or structure on or in which the
nonconforming use is conducted. Such property or structure cannot be readily
converted to another use, and such investment was made prior to the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter;
   b.   The applicant will be unable to recoup said investment as of the date
established for termination of the use; and
   c.   The applicant has made good faith efforts to recoup the investment and
to relocate the use to a location in conformance with this section.
   K.   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or
provision or this chapter or the application thereof to any person, property or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and application of
such to other persons, properties or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.
   L.   Violations. It shall be unlawful to establish or operate an adult
entertainment business in violation of this chapter. Any person who violates
any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed or constituted to prevent the city from commencing any
civil proceeding otherwise authorized by law for the declaration or abatement
of a public nuisance. (Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005: Ord. 04-10 § 1
(Att. A (part)), 2004)
17.38.040 Antennas, wireless communications facilities.
   A.   Purpose. This section provides regulations to control the installation
of antennas and other wireless communication facilities. It is recognized that
unrestricted installations are contrary to the city's efforts to stabilize
neighborhood character, and the city's efforts to promote safety and aesthetic
considerations, and an overall scenic character within the city. It is the
intent of this section to permit antennas and wireless communication facilities
where they can be installed without creating an adverse economic, safety and
aesthetic impacts on neighboring property owners and the overall community.
   B.   Applicability. This section applies to all proposed antennas and other
communications facilities.
   C.   Standards for Wireless Communication Facilities. These standards are
designed to comply with the Telecommunications Act of 1996. The provisions of
this section are not intended to and shall not be interpreted to prohibit or to
have the effect of prohibiting personal wireless services. This section shall
not be applied in such a manner as to unreasonably discriminate between
providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services. All wireless
communication facilities shall comply with the following requirements.
   1.   Permit Requirements. No wireless communication facility shall be
installed without first having obtained a building permit, and a conditional
use permit. In reviewing any application to provide wireless service or to
install personal wireless service facilities, the city shall act within a
reasonable period of time, taking into account the nature and scope of the
application. Any decision to deny an application shall be in writing, supported
by substantial evidence contained in a written record. The city shall approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the application in accordance with this zoning
ordinance and in accordance with the general purpose of the general plan and
other applicable ordinances.
   2.   Application Content. Applications for the approval of wireless
communication facilities shall include the following information, in addition
to all other information required by the city for a conditional use permit
application:
   a.   Written documentation demonstrating a good faith effort in locating
facilities in accordance with the location requirements in subsection (D)(3)
(Location Requirements); and
   b.   Visual simulations showing the proposed facilities superimposed on
photographs of the site and surroundings, to assist the review authority and
the public in assessing the visual impacts of the proposed facility and its
compliance with the provisions of this section.
   c.   A diagram or map showing the viewshed of the proposed facility.
Photosimulations of the proposed facility from effected residential properties
and public rights-of-way at varying distances.
   d.   A map showing the service area of the proposed wireless communication
facility and an explanation of the need for that facility.
   e.   A map showing the locations and service areas of other wireless
communication facility sites operated by the applicant and those that are
proposed by the applicant which are close enough to impact service within the
city.
   f.   A site/landscaping plan showing the specific placement of the wireless
communication facility on the site; showing the location of existing
structures, trees, and other significant site features and indicating type and
locations of plant materials used to screen wireless communication facility
components and the proposed color(s) for the wireless communication facility.
   3.   Location Requirements. Site location shall preserve the pre-existing
character of the site as much as possible. Existing vegetation should be
preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography of the site
should be minimized, unless such disturbance would result in less visual impact
of the site on the surrounding area. The effectiveness of visual mitigation
techniques must be evaluated by the city, in the city's sole discretion. The
placement of all communication facilities shall comply with the following
standards.
   a.   General Requirement. All facilities shall be located to minimize their
aesthetic/visual impact on the surrounding community. Ground-mounted non-
stealth facilities shall be located only in proximity to existing aboveground
utility poles (which are not scheduled for eventual undergrounding), light
poles, or trees of comparable height.
   b.   Restricted Locations. No wireless communication facility shall be
established in any of the following locations, except for a stealth facility
determined by the review authority to be sufficiently integrated with and/or
screened by a non-antenna support structure (for example, a street light,
utility pole, building feature, landscape feature), that the facility will be
substantially indistinguishable from its support structure:
   (1)   Within any residential zoning district;
   (2)   Within any nonresidential zoning district on a site that contains a
legally established residential use; or
   (3)   Within a V (Visual Considerations) overlay zoning district.
   c.   Ridgelines. No major wireless communication facility shall be placed on
or near a ridgeline so that it appears silhouetted against the sky when viewed
from any point on a roadway designated as a scenic highway by the general plan/
LCP.
   d.   Co-location. A permittee shall cooperate with other wireless
communication facility providers in co-locating additionally antennas on
support structures and/or on existing buildings provided said proposed co-
locators have received a special use permit for such use at said site from the
city. A permittee shall exercise good faith in co-locating with other providers
and sharing the permitted site, provided such shared use does not give rise to
a substantial technical level impairment of the ability to provide the
permitted use (i.e., a significant interference in broadcast or reception
capabilities as opposed to a competitive conflict of financial burden). Such
good faith shall include sharing technical information to evaluate the
feasibility of co-location. In the event a dispute arises as to whether a
permittee has exercised good faith in accommodating other users, the city may
require a third party technical study at the expense of either or both the
applicant and permittee. All applicants shall demonstrate reasonable efforts in
developing a co-location alternative for their proposal. Failure to comply with
the co-location requirements of this section may result in the denial of a
permit request or revocation of an existing permit.
   e.   Residential. No facility shall be located on a parcel within a
residential zoning district unless the parcel is owned by a public utility or
public agency or would otherwise prohibit personal wireless service.
   4.   Guidelines for Placement on Structures. The methods preferred by the
city for mounting an antenna on a structure are as follows, in order of
preference:
   a.   Place antennas and towers on public property if practical.
   b.   Place antennas and towers east of Highway 101 outside the Pacific Ocean
view corridors and the City Center area.
   c.   Mounted on an existing structure on the facade, roof or co-located
tower;
   d.   Mounted on an existing steel or concrete pole (for example, a light
standard); or
   e.   Mounted on a new steel or concrete monopole.
   5.   Design and development standards. Wireless communication facilities
shall be architecturally compatible with surrounding land uses and screened, or
otherwise integrated, and designed and maintained as follows:
   a.   The facilities shall have subdued colors and non-reflective materials
which blend with the materials and colors of the surrounding area.
   b.   Building-mounted facilities shall be designed and/or screened in a
manner be compatible with the existing architecture in color, texture and type
of material of the building.
   c.   The facilities shall not bear any signs or advertising devices other
than certification, warning or other required seals or signage.
   d.   All accessory equipment associated with the operation of the wireless
facility shall be located within a building, enclosure or underground vault
that complies with the development standards of the zoning district in which
the accessory equipment is located.
   e.   As provided above, new facilities shall be designated to accommodate
co-location, unless the applicant demonstrates why such design is not feasible
for economic, technical or physical reasons.
   f.   Support structures shall be set back from all residential property
lines a distance equal to the height of the support structure plus the height
of any antennas, and shall comply with all required setbacks of the zoning
district in which it is located.
   g.   Support structures shall be designed and placed on the site in a manner
that takes maximum advantage of existing trees, mature vegetation, and
structures:
   h.   Landscaping shall be required to screen wireless communication
facilities as much as possible, to soften the appearance of the cell site. The
city may permit any combination of existing vegetation, topography, walls,
decorative fences or the features instead of landscaping, if they achieve the
same degree of screening as the required landscaping. If the antenna is mounted
flush on an existing building, or camouflaged as part of the building and other
equipment is housed inside an existing structure, landscaping shall not be
required.
   6.   View Corridors. Due consideration shall be given so that placement of
towers, antenna, and personal wireless service facilities do not obstruct or
significantly diminish views of the Pacific Ocean.
   7.   Fees. It is the policy of the city of Pismo Beach that applicants pay
the full cost associated with processing an application. The city manager shall
establish a base application fee for all wireless communication applications.
This base application fee shall include the cost of preparing this ordinance
and administering it on an ongoing basis. In addition to the application fee,
the applicant shall, reimburse the city for costs of professional engineers and
other consultants hired by the city to review and inspect the applicant's
proposal when the city is unable to do so with existing in-house staff. These
professional services may include but are not limited to: engineering,
technical reviews, legal, planning; hearing examiner, environmental review,
critical areas of review, financial, accounting, soils, mechanical and
structural engineering. In the event that project requires special staff
analysis beyond that which is included in the base fee, the applicant shall
reimburse the city for this staff time. The city may require the applicant to
deposit an amount with the city to cover anticipated costs of retaining
professional consultants or performing special staff analysis.
   8.   Validation of Proper Operation. Within ninety days of commencement of
operations, the applicants for the wireless communication facility shall
provide the director a preliminary report and field report prepared by a
qualified engineer, verifying that the operation of the facility is in
conformance with the standards established by the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers
(IEEE) for sage human exposure to electromagnetic field (EMF) and radio
frequency radiation (RFR).
   9.   Monitoring Requirements. Each major wireless communication facility
approved shall be subject to review by the planning commission at the end of
five years from the date of approval. At any time, the planning commission may
modify existing conditions or impose new conditions to protect the public
health and safety and general welfare, as deemed necessary by the review
authority.
   10.   Expiration. A conditional use permit for a wireless communication
facility shall expire five years after the effective date of the permit
approval. A permittee wishing to continue the use of a specific wireless
communication facility at the end of the five year period must apply for a
conditional use permit renewal application to continue that use at least six
months prior to its expiration. In ruling on said renewal the planning
commission shall apply all then existing regulations effecting the application.
   11.   Abandonment. Wireless communication facilities that were lawfully
installed and are no longer operating shall be removed from the property no
later than ninety days after the discontinuation of use. Removal shall comply
with applicable health and safety regulations.
   A written notice of the determination of abandonment shall be sent or
delivered to operator of the wireless communication facility. The operator
shall have thirty days to remove the facility or provide the director with
evidence that the use has not been discontinued. All facilities not removed
within the required thirty-day period shall be in violation of this Zoning
Code, and operators of the facility and the owners of the property shall be
subject to penalties for violations under the enforcement and penalties
provisions of this section.
   12.   Violations. Operators violating any of the provisions of this section
regarding wireless communication facilities are guilty of a misdemeanor. Each
day a violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such. The penalty for a misdemeanor
is a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars or imprisonment for a term not to
exceed six months, or by both fine and imprisonment.
   13.   Severability. Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance, or its application to any person or circumstance, be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid for any reason, or should any
portion of this Title be preempted by state or federal law or regulation, such
decision or preemption shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
of this Title or its application to other persons or circumstances.
   D.   Standards for Satellite Antennas. Satellite antennas, including
portable units and dish antennas, shall be designed, installed, and maintained
in compliance with the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) and the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC).
   Satellite antennas with a diameter larger than one meter shall also comply
with the following requirements, when these provisions are not in conflict with
applicable State and Federal regulations. Home satellite antennas with a
maximum diameter of one meter or less are not regulated by this section.
   1.   Permit Requirement. Zoning clearance shall be required for antennas
with a diameter of seventy-two inches or less; minor use permit approval shall
be required for larger antennas.
   2.   Application, Plans. Plans for antennas shall be submitted with each
application for a building permit, and shall include a site plan and elevation
drawings indicating the height, diameter, color, setbacks, foundation details,
landscaping, and method of screening. The plans shall be subject to the
approval of the director.
   3.   Location. No antenna shall be located within any required front or
street side yard setbacks in any zoning district. In addition, no portion of an
antenna shall extend beyond the property lines.
   4.   Color. The antennas and supporting structure shall be painted a single,
neutral, non-glossy color (for example, earth-tones, gray, black) and, to the
extent possible, compatible with the appearance and character of the
surrounding neighborhood.
   5.   Wiring. All electrical and antenna wiring shall be placed underground
whenever possible.
   6.   Residential Districts. In any residential zoning district, all antennas
shall be subject to the following standards:
   a.   Only ground-mounted antennas shall be permitted. Ground-mounted
antennas shall be located in the rear yard of the site;
   b.   The height of the antennas shall not exceed fifteen feet;
   c.   Only one antenna may be permitted on any site;
   d.   The antenna shall be separated from adjacent properties by at least a
six-foot high solid wall or fence or by plants or trees of equal minimum
height;
   e.   Any antenna that is taller than adjacent property line fences shall be
located away from the side or rear property line at a distance equal to or
greater than the height of the antenna;
   f.   The diameter of the antenna shall not exceed ten feet. This provision
may be modified by the director if strict compliance would result in no/poor
satellite reception; and
   g.   The antenna shall be used for private, noncommercial, purposes only.
   7.   Nonresidential Districts. In any non-residential zoning district,
antennas may be roof or ground-mounted. These antennas shall be subject to the
following standards:
   a.   If roof-mounted, the antennas shall be screened from ground view by a
parapet or other type of screening. The minimum height and design of the
parapet, wall, or screening shall be subject to approval of the director;
   b.   If ground-mounted, the antennas shall not be located between a
structure and an adjacent street and shall be screened from public view and
neighboring properties;
   c.   The location and height of the antennas shall comply with all
requirements of the underlying zoning district; and
   d.   If the subject site abuts a residential zoning district, all antennas
shall be set back a minimum distance from the property line equal to the height
of the antenna, unless otherwise screened from view.
   E.   Standards for Single Pole/Tower Amateur Radio Antennas. All single
pole/tower amateur radio antennas shall be designed, constructed, maintained
and permitted in the following manner:
   1.   Definition. "Amateur radio antenna" means an antenna, or any
combination of a mast, tower, support structure, antenna array or guide wire
plus any additional attached or mounted antenna, which transmits or receives
noncommercial radio signals and is utilized by an operator licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission.
   2.   Setbacks.
   a.   Amateur radio antennas, antenna arrays, support structures, and guy
wires shall be located outside all front and side yard setbacks.
   b.   A minimum setback of five feet from the rear property line shall be
maintained for all amateur radio antennas, antenna arrays, support structures,
and guy wires.
   c.   Amateur radio antennas, antenna arrays, support structures and guy
wires shall be located outside the bluff top setback area for all lots located
within the Coastal Zone.
   3.   Height.
   a.   Amateur radio antennas shall be limited to the maximum height permitted
for structures (excluding the architectural features set forth in Section
17.20.040) within the zone district where they are located, plus an additional
fifteen feet. Antenna applications submitted in conformance with this
requirement shall require approval of an administrative zone clearance, issued
by the Community Development Director or his or her designee. All zone
clearance applications shall be accompanied by the submittal requirements
identified on the city's submittal checklist including notification materials.
   b.   Antennas that exceed the maximum height permitted in the zone district
shall be designed such that they can be easily lowered, either by motorized or
manual means, to a height not to exceed the maximum height permitted in the
zone district when not in use.
   c.   Antennas that are proposed to exceed the height identified in item 3a.
above shall require approval of a Conditional Use Permit. Antenna applications
submitted under this requirement shall be accompanied by technical information
that provides justification for the proposed height. The applicant shall be
required to fund any expert evaluation required by either the Community
Development Director or review authority.
   d.   Any antenna that exceeds the height permitted in the zone district
shall include a physical stop limiting the antenna height to that which the
review authority approves.
   4.   Safety.
   a.   All amateur radio antennas shall be located within a fenced yard/
enclosure or on a structure that is otherwise inaccessible to the general
public.
   b.   Sufficient anti-climbing measures shall be incorporated into the design
of all amateur radio antennas and support structures to reduce the potential
for possible trespass and injury.
   F.   Effects of development on antenna reception. The city shall not be
liable if development within the city after installation of the antenna impairs
antenna reception. (Ord. O-2012-002 § 2, 2012)
17.38.050 Child day care facilities.
   This section establishes standards for the city review of child day-care
facilities, in conformance with State law, including the limitations on the
city's authority to regulate these facilities. These standards apply in
addition to all other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code and any
requirements imposed by the California Department of Social Services through
its facility licensing procedures. Licensing by the Department of Social
Services is required for all child day care facilities.
   A.   Application Requirements. Land use permit applications for child day
care facilities shall include a copy of the license issued by the California
Department of Social Services, in addition to all other information and
materials required by the Department.
   B.   Small Family Day Care Homes. Small family day care homes are permitted
within any single-family residence located in a residential zone.
   C.   Large Family Day Care Homes. This use is allowed within any single-
family residence located in a residential zone, subject to the following
requirements:
   1.   Permit Requirement, Public Notice. A large family day care home shall
require the approval of a non-discretionary minor use permit by the director.
Instead of the public notice required by
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings), all property owners within one hundred feet of
the proposed site shall be provided notice of the application at least ten days
prior to the date of the director's decision on the permit. No public hearing
shall be held unless requested in writing by the applicant or other affected
person.
   2.   Criteria for Approval. Minor use permit approval shall be granted if
the director determines that the proposed large family day care home will
comply with the standards in subsection E.
   D.   Child Day Care Centers. Allowed in the zoning districts with the type
of land use permit determined by Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land
Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards), subject to the standards in following
subsection E.
   E.   Standards for Child Care Facilities. Large family day care homes and
child day care centers are subject to the following standards:
   a.   Spacing/Concentration. No residential property shall be bordered on
more than one side by a child day care facility.
   b.   Traffic Control. A drop-off and pick-up area shall be established to
ensure that children are not placed at risk and street traffic is not unduly
interrupted. The driveway of a large family day care home may serve as its
drop-off area.
17.38.060 Drive-through and drive-in sales and service facilities.
   A.   Purpose. The provisions of this section provide for standards and
procedures for the development of non-residential drive-through and drive-in
sales and services facilities. These standards are established so that proposed
drive-through and drive-in sales and services facilities may be designed in
such a manner as to assure their compatibility and enhancement to the site and
surrounding land uses, and to provide a safe and desirable living environment.
   B.   Applicability. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Municipal
Code, drive- through and drive-in sales and services facilities shall be
permitted only on property that is both located outside the coastal zone and
zoned general commercial (CG). A conditional use permit, pursuant to the
provision of Section
17.42.050, shall be obtained prior to establishment of such facilities.
   C.   Development Standards. In addition to the criteria set forth in
Chapters 17.12 and
17.14 (Commercial Zoning Districts and Commercial Design Standards), the
following requirements shall be met in connection with review of a conditional
use permit for drive-through and drive-in sales and services facilities:
   1.   Design Requirements.
   a.   The architecture of any drive-through and drive-in facility shall be
compatible with surrounding uses in terms of color, form, materials, and scale;
   b.   Drive-through and drive-in facilities shall be located at least one
hundred feet away from any residentially zoned property;
   c.   The proposal of drive-through and drive-in facilities shall not be
considered as justification for reducing the number of parking spaces, which
would otherwise be required by
Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading);
   d.   Lighting for drive-through and drive-in facilities shall be shielded or
directed away from adjoining properties and public rights-of-way and shall be
in compliance with Section
17.24.100(B);
   e.   Drive-through and drive-in isles shall be properly screened with
landscaping to help minimize visual impacts.
   f.   Hours of operation for drive-through and drive-in facilities shall be
limited to the hours between seven a.m. to ten p.m. when abutting residentially
zoned property.
   g.   Design and square footage for menu board signs shall be consistent with
the requirements of
Chapter 17.36 (Signs). Any speakers associated with a drive-through and drive-
in facility shall be directed away from residentially zoned property.
   2.   Circulation.
   a.   Drive-through and drive-in aisles shall have a minimum width of twelve
feet and minimum interior radius at all curves of fifteen feet. Each drive-
through and drive-in aisle entrance/exist shall be located at least twenty-five
feet from any curb cut. No drive-through and drive-in isle shall be permitted
to empty directly onto a public street.
   b.   Direction signage shall be provided for each entrance and exit from a
drive-through and drive-in isle.
   c.   Drive-through and drive-in aisles shall not interfere with ingress and
egress from the property or access to on-site parking.
   d.   Drive-through and drive-in aisles shall provide at least one hundred
twenty feet of reservoir space for vehicle stacking, as measured from the
service window or unit to the entry point of the aisle.
   e.   Drive-through and drive-in facilities shall be designed in such a
manner so as to minimize conflicts with on-site circulation and to preclude
adverse impacts to public streets.
   3.   Findings for Approval. Drive-in or drive-through and drive-in shall not
be approved unless the city makes the following findings:
   a.   The design and location of the facility will not contribute to
increased congestion on public or private streets adjacent to the subject
property.
   b.   The design and location of the facility will not impede access to or
exit from the parking lot serving the facility, nor impair normal circulation
within the parking lot. (Ord. 02-09 § 2 (Exh. A (part)), 2002; Ord. 02-02 § 2
(Exh. 8B), 2002)
17.38.070 Home occupations.
   A.   Applicability. The provisions of this Section allow for business
activities within a housing unit that are subordinate to the primary
residential use of the site, and compatible with surrounding residential uses.
This section does not address child care businesses, which are instead subject
to 17.38.050 (Child Day Care Facilities).
   B.   Limitations on Use. The following are examples of business activities
that may be approved by the director as home occupations, and uses that are not
allowed as home occupations.
   1.   Allowed Home Occupations. The following may be approved by the director
in compliance with this section:
   a.   Art work (ceramics, painting, photography, sculpture, and similar
works);
   b.   Clothing production, millinery, sewing, and similar activities;
   c.   Small handcraft; and
   d.   An office for an architect, attorney, consultant, insurance agent,
tutor, writer, counselor/therapist, licensed massage therapist, and persons
providing similar services.
   The director may also approve other business activities as home occupations,
where the director determines that the business activity is substantially
similar to the above uses in its operational characteristics, and will result
in no greater impacts on the site or surrounding properties than the above
uses.
   2.   Prohibited Home Occupation Uses. The following are examples of business
activities that are not incidental to or compatible with residential
activities, and are, therefore, prohibited as home occupations:
   a.   Adult businesses;
   b.   Barber and beauty shops;
   c.   Commercial photo/film processing labs;
   d.   Dance or night clubs;
   e.   Gun and/or ammunition sales;
   f.   Medical and dental offices, clinics, and laboratories (not including
counselors/psychotherapists, and licensed massage therapists);
   g.   Mini storage;
   h.   Storage of equipment, materials, and other accessories for the
construction and service trades;
   i.   Vehicle repair (body or mechanical), upholstery, automobile detailing
and painting;
   j.   Welding and machining; and
   k.   Any other use determined by the director not to be incidental to or
compatible with residential activities, including any use which may produce
noise, odors, or traffic that is not customary within a residential area.
   C.   Application. Zoning clearance (Section
17.42.020) is required for home occupations, which are permitted as accessory
uses in all residential zoning districts. A statement of compliance with the
operating standards in Subsection D following, shall be signed by the property
owner prior to issuance of a zoning clearance. Counselors, psychotherapists,
and massage therapists, shall provide evidence of proper State licensing with
their application.
   D.   Operating Standards. Home occupations shall comply with all of the
following operating standards:
   1.   Accessory Use Only. The home occupation shall be clearly secondary to
the full-time use of the structure as a residence;
   2.   Activities, Equipment, Materials. Activities conducted and equipment or
material used shall not change the fire safety or occupancy classifications of
the premises. The use shall not involve the storage of flammable, explosive, or
hazardous materials. No use shall create noise, dust, light, vibration, odor,
gas, fumes, toxic/hazardous materials, smoke, glare, electrical interference,
or other hazards or nuisances;
   3.   Exterior Evidence of Use. The use shall not require any modification
not customarily found in a dwelling, nor shall the use be visible from the
street or from neighboring properties. There shall be no window display,
advertising sign, or other identification of the home occupation on the
premises;
   4.   Limitation on Employees. The home occupation shall have no employees on
the site other than the residents of the housing unit. This limitation applies
only to employees of the home business and does not regulate the use of
housekeeping, gardening, child care, and/or cooking personnel which are
unrelated to the home business; and
   5.   Limitation on Clients. No more than one client shall be allowed on the
premises at any time for counseling, music lessons, tutoring, or other
purposes.
   6.   Location of Home Occupation. The home occupation shall be located
entirely within an enclosed structure, and shall not be allowed in a trailer or
other temporary structure; and
   7.   Vehicles, Traffic. Vehicles used and traffic generated by the home
occupation shall not exceed the type of vehicles and traffic volume normally
generated by a home in a residential neighborhood. All parking needs of the
home occupation shall be met off the street and on the same site as the
permitted home occupation.
17.38.080 Hotels and motels.
   A.   Maximum Density.
   1.   RR-H Zoning District. The maximum allowable number of hotel and motel
units on a site within the RR-H zoning district shall be one unit for each five
hundred square feet of site area.
   2.   CD Zoning Districts. The maximum allowable number of hotel and motel
units on a site within the CD-M, CD-C, and CD-V zoning districts shall be
determined as follows:
   a.   Single-room units: One per each five hundred square feet of site area;
and
   b.   Multi-room suites: One per each eight hundred square feet of site area.
   When considering the conditional use permit for a project, the commission
may authorize a greater density when the circumstances of the site or a project
design warrant. For purposes of this section, "room" shall mean a bedroom or
sleeping room.
   B.   Special Parking Provisions. The review authority may consider
variations in the design and layout of parking facilities for major hotels and
motels through conditional use permit review, including tandem valet parking.
Approval of design and layout variations shall include provisions for ensuring
that the proposed alternative will continue to be operated effectively with the
use; that alternatives such as valet parking occur within a controlled area,
and that the total number of parking spaces required for the hotel/motel by
Section
17.34.040 (Number of Parking Spaces Required) will be provided at all times.
   C.   Bus and RV Parking Spaces. Proposed parking lots for hotels and motels
should be designed to include adequate spaces for the parking of tour busses
and recreational vehicles (RVs).
   D.   Additional Requirements for Hotels and Motels within the Downtown.
Hotels and motels proposed within the CD zoning districts shall also comply
with the following standards.
   1.   Design Requirements. The buildings and structures for hotels, motels
and other transient lodging uses shall be designed in a manner that is
characteristic of short-term occupancy and does not include features that are
associated with long-term occupancy and use as dwelling units. Where multi-room
suites are proposed, they shall be limited to a size and range of facilities
that is characteristic of hotel suites. Full-sized kitchens, dining rooms and
other living areas characteristic of dwelling units shall be discouraged.
   2.   Length of Stay. The review authority shall adopt conditions of approval
which will assure that the occupancy of the lodging is limited to short-term
stays by tourists and coastal visitors.
   3.   Subdivision. The subdivision of hotels into airspace condominium units
may be permitted with the approval of a conditional use permit by the council,
subject to conditions that will assure the development functions primarily as
visitor accommodations. The conditions shall require the recordation of
enforceable deed restrictions limiting occupancy by any individual to a maximum
of thirty calendar days per year, cumulative, and shall require participation
in a rental program open to the general public on the same basis as non-
condominium hotels.
17.38.090 Mixed use projects.
   The provisions of this section apply to projects which include both
commercial and residential uses. The intent is to provide a continuous frontage
of retail shops and commercial business establishments at the street level,
while providing opportunities for downtown residential living. The following
requirements shall apply to mixed use projects:
   A.   Use of Street Level. The entire ground floor street frontage, with the
exception of circulation access and loading areas, shall be used exclusively
for retail and other commercial uses. No dwelling units shall be permitted on
the ground floor/street level except within a single-story structure, and on
the rear half of the lot, occupying less than forty percent of the ground floor
area.
   B.   Parking. All parking spaces required by the residential use shall be
provided on-site. Parking spaces to serve the residential units shall be
specifically designated and shall be reserved for the exclusive use of the
residents.
17.38.100 Mobile home parks/subdivisions.
   The following standards are intended to ensure that new, expanded or
redeveloped mobile home parks, and new mobile home subdivisions are located and
established so as to be compatible with adjacent residential neighborhoods and
commercial areas. The planning and design of the interior of mobile home parks,
including lots and other areas within parks, and the permitting of individual
mobile homes within mobile home parks is regulated by the California Department
of Housing and Community Development (HCD), and is not subject to the
provisions of this Section.
   A.   Site Planning and Design Standards. Mobile home parks and subdivisions
shall conform to the following minimum standards.
   1.   Minimum site area: Five acres.
   2.   Density: A maximum of eight mobile home spaces per acre.
   3.   Setbacks. All structures, including but not limited to mobile homes,
shall be set back from property lines as follows:
   a.   Street frontage lot lines: Thirty feet.
   b.   Exterior park lot lines not abutting streets: Ten feet
   4.   Landscaping. The perimeter of mobile home parks shall be landscaped as
follows:
   a.   Street Frontages. Required setbacks shall be provided with a landscaped
buffer at least fifteen feet wide, except where cut by access driveways.
Landscaping shall occupy a minimum of sixty percent of the required street
frontage setback area required by subsection (A)(3) above.
   b.   Other setback areas: Shall be landscaped with screen planting strips.
   c.   Interior Street Trees. Each mobile home lot shall be provided at least
one street tree of fifteen gallon size or larger.
   d.   Interior Landscaping. All open areas of a mobile home park not occupied
by paving or common facilities shall be landscaped, including a minimum of
twenty percent of the total site area for each mobile home, and a minimum of
forty-five percent of the total common area(s) of the park.
   5.   Fencing. The perimeter of a mobile home park or subdivision shall be
enclosed by a six foot high solid masonry wall (or alternate approved by the
director), located at the setback line along street frontages, and adjacent to
property lines not abutting streets.
   6.   Signs. Sign area shall be limited to one identification sign of fifty
square feet and one directional sign of twenty-five square feet, subject to
director approval.
   B.   Accessory Commercial Uses Permitted. A mobile home park may contain
commercial uses for the convenience of park residents, i.e., coin operated
laundry, soft drink, cigarette and similar machines, provided that these uses
shall be located in the interior of the park and shall not occupy more than
five hundred square feet for each fifty mobile homes or fraction thereof.
   C.   Use of Mobile Home Lots. No more than one occupied mobile home shall be
allowed on any one lot. No travel trailer, camper, or other recreational
vehicle shall be placed on any mobile home lot, either for occupancy or
storage.
   D.   Recreational Vehicle Areas. Mobile home parks may include spaces for
occupied recreational vehicles, and/or recreational vehicle storage areas,
provided that the location, number and size of spaces shall be authorized as
part of the conditional use permit approval.
   E.   Conversion of Mobile Home Park to Another Use. Any subdivision of an
existing mobile home park or conversion of an existing mobile home park to
another land use is subject to the following requirements:
   1.   Permit Requirement. Conditional use permit approval (Section
17.42.050).
   2.   Application Content. The conditional use permit application shall
include the report required by Government Code Section 66427.4 or 65863.7, as
applicable, in addition to all information required by Section
17.40.040 (Application Preparation and Filing).
   3.   Special Notice Requirement. As required by Government Code Section
65863.8, at least thirty days before the public hearing on the conditional use
permit, the department shall notify the applicant in writing of the provisions
of Section 798.56 of the Civil Code regarding the responsibility of the
applicant to notify residents and mobile home owners of the mobile home park of
the proposed change in use. No hearing on a proposed mobile home park
conversion shall be scheduled until the applicant has verified this
notification to the satisfaction of the director.
17.38.110 Mobile homes.
   Mobile homes (identified as manufactured homes by the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974) on lots zoned for
conventional single-family dwellings, and the storage of mobile homes are
subject to the requirements of this Section. Mobile homes placed in mobile home
parks (Section
17.38.100), that are regulated by the California Department of Housing and
Community Development, are not subject to the provisions of this section.
Modular (also known as factory-built) housing units are considered the same as
single-family dwellings for the purposes of this Zoning Code, and are not
subject to the provisions of this section.
   Mobile homes to be used as permanent dwellings in compliance with this
section are subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Certified Mobile Homes. Mobile homes that are certified under the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42
USC Section 5401, et seq.), are subject to the following standards:
   1.   Location. As required by Government Code Section 65852.3, mobile homes
for permanent occupancy are considered the same as single-family dwellings, and
are permitted by Section
17.08.030 (Residential District Land Uses and Permit Requirements) in all
zoning districts that allow single-family housing units;
   2.   Foundation System. The mobile home shall be placed on a foundation
system in compliance with Section 18551 of the Health and Safety Code; and
   3.   Architectural Standards. Mobile homes shall be designed and constructed
with roof eave and gable overhangs of not less than one foot measured from the
vertical side of the structure.
   B.   Non-Certified Mobile Homes. Mobile homes that are not certified under
the National Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974, and that do not
meet the requirements of subsection A above shall be placed only in mobile home
parks.
   C.   Density. The number of certified mobile homes (as described in
subsection A above) that may be placed on a single parcel shall be the same as
the number of single-family dwellings permitted by Section
17.08.040 (Residential District General Development Standards). The number of
mobile homes that may be placed in a mobile home park is determined by Section
17.38.100 (Mobile Home Parks and Subdivisions).
   D.   Storage of Unoccupied Mobile Homes. Unoccupied mobile homes or portions
thereof that are not fixed to a foundation shall be stored only in a mobile
home sales lot, or an approved storage yard.
17.38.120 Multi-family housing.
   Multi-family housing projects shall comply with the following requirements,
in addition to all other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code. The
requirements of this section may be modified through site plan and
architectural review or conditional use permit approval.
   A.   Setbacks. A proposed building shall be separated from any other
building on the site by a minimum of twenty feet. Proposed buildings shall be
set back from internal roads and driveways a minimum of ten feet.
   B.   Common Outdoor Space. Common outdoor space, not including required
front or street side setback areas, and usable for passive and/or active
recreation, shall be provided at a ratio of four hundred square feet per
housing unit.
   C.   Private Outdoor Space. Each multi-family housing unit shall be provided
with private outdoor open space in the form of patios, decks, fenced yard
areas, and similar spaces, with the following minimum areas:
   1.   Studio and one-bedroom units: Seventy-five square feet.
   2.   Two-bedroom units: One hundred fifty square feet.
   3.   Three bedroom and larger units: Two hundred twenty-five square feet.
   D.   Fencing. The development of more than two multi-family housing units
shall include the installation of solid wood or masonry fencing along the site
perimeter side and rear property lines, in compliance with Section
17.24.060 (Fences, Walls and Hedges), to the maximum height allowed.
   E.   Garages. The number of garages or carports facing directly onto a
street from any multi-family structure shall not exceed the number which may be
accommodated on thirty percent of the parcel frontage; provided that a minimum
of two shall be allowed.
17.38.130 Outdoor retail sales and other activities.
   Permanent outdoor sales and rental establishments including autos, other
vehicles and equipment, service stations, and other uses where the business is
not conducted entirely within a structure shall comply with the following
standards. Temporary outdoor sales are subject to Section
17.42.040 (Temporary Use Permits).
   A.   Outdoor Merchandise Display. The outdoor display of merchandise shall
comply with the following standards, except where minor use permit approval
authorizes display subject to alternate requirements approved by the review
authority.
   1.   Screening Required. Except for automobile sales, an outdoor sales/
activity area shall be screened from adjacent streets by decorative solid
walls, fences, or landscaped berms, a minimum of thirty-six inches high, in a
ten-foot landscaped area adjacent to the street property line;
   2.   Location of Merchandise on Private Property. Displayed merchandise
shall occupy a fixed, specifically approved and defined location that does not
disrupt the normal function of the site or its circulation, and does not
encroach upon required parking spaces, driveways, pedestrian walkways, or
required landscape areas. These displays shall also not obstruct sight distance
or otherwise create hazards for vehicle or pedestrian traffic; and
   3.   Display of Merchandise within a Public Right-of-Way. The display of
merchandise within a public right-of-way may be allowed only with the approval
of an encroachment permit in compliance with Municipal Code Section __________.
The location of displayed merchandise authorized by an encroachment permit
shall maintain a clear pathway for pedestrian travel at all times, with a
minimum width of five feet.
   4.   Signs. Generally, there shall be no signs in addition to that allowed
by
Chapter 17.36 (Signs) that is visible from the street. Pricing signs shall be
no larger than necessary to be read by on-site shoppers.
   B.   Outdoor Storage Areas. Where permitted by Article II (Zoning Districts
and Allowable Land uses), all outdoor storage areas shall be entirely enclosed
and screened by a solid wall or fence at least six feet in height.
   C.   Outdoor Dining. When not entirely enclosed within a courtyard, outdoor
dining may be allowed on private property adjacent to a public right-of-way
with minor use permit approval. The review authority shall impose conditions of
approval as deemed appropriate to provide for proper access and circulation,
and any necessary separation from the public right-of-way.
17.38.135 Proximity limitations.
   To the extent that the following uses are permitted in a certain zone
pursuant to Title 17 of this code, whether by right or as a conditional use,
such uses shall also be subject to the limitation that each instance of the use
must be located at least one thousand (1,000) feet away from any like
establishment. One thousand feet shall be the minimum linear distance between
the closest points along the boundaries of the parcel upon which the existing
use is located and the parcel upon which the additional use is proposed,
respectively, as determined by the Community Development Director or designee.
   A.   Check-cashing establishment.
   B.   Gold and silver exchange.
   C.   Massage establishment—primary.
   D.   Pawn shop.
   E.   Resale establishment.
   F.   Smoke shop.
   G.   Tattoo establishment.
(Ord. O-2019-007 § 4, 2019)
17.38.140 Recycling facilities.
   A.   Purpose. The following provisions establish standards and procedures
for the siting and operation of various types and sizes of commercial recycling
facilities.
   B.   Applicability. Any recycling facility intending to operate in the city
shall comply with all provisions of this section:
   C.   Permit Requirements. Recycling facilities are subject to permit review
in all commercial zoning districts according to the following schedule:
 
Type of facility         Districts permitted Permit required   
                                                 Site Plan and Architectural
Reverse vending machine(s) All Commercial        Review for up to 5 reverse
                                                 vending machines
Small collection           CG, CS                Site Plan and Architectural
                                                 Review
Large collection           CS                    Conditional Use Permit
 
   D.   Development and Operating Standards. All recycling facilities shall
comply with the following specific standards:
   1.   Reverse Vending Machines. Reverse vending machine(s) located on a
commercial site shall not require additional parking spaces for recycling
customers, and may be permitted in all commercial zoning districts, subject to
site plan and architectural review and compliance with the following standards.
   a.   Accessory Use Only. The machines shall be installed as an accessory
use.
   b.   Location Requirements:
   (1)   If located inside a structure, the machines shall be within thirty
feet of the entrance and shall not obstruct pedestrian circulation; and
   (2)   If located outside a structure, the machines shall not occupy parking
spaces required by the main use.
   c.   Maximum Size. The machines shall occupy no more than fifty square feet
for each installation, including any protective enclosure, and shall be no more
than eight feet in height.
   d.   Signs. The machines shall have a maximum sign area of four square feet
per machine, exclusive of operating instructions.
   e.   Lighting. Reverse vending machines shall be illuminated to ensure
comfortable and safe operation, if operating hours are between dusk and dawn.
   f.   Materials. If located outside a structure, the machines shall be
constructed of durable waterproof and rustproof material.
   g.   Hours of Operation. The machines shall have operating hours consistent
with the operating hours of the main use.
   2.   Small Collection Facilities. Small collection facilities may be allowed
subject to site plan and architectural review and compliance with the following
standards.
   a.   Location Requirements. Small collection facilities shall:
   (1)   Be set back at least forty-five feet from any public right-of-way, and
not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation;
   (2)   Not be located in any required parking, access, or sight distance area
of any required setback;
   (3)   Not be located within fifty feet of any parcel zoned or planned for
residential use; and
   (4)   Permanently locate any containers provided for "after hours" donation
of recyclable materials at least thirty feet from any property zoned or
occupied for residential use.
   b.   Maximum Size. Shall be no larger than three hundred fifty square feet
and occupy no more than three parking spaces not including space that will be
periodically needed for removal of materials or exchange of containers.
   c.   Appearance of Facility. Collection containers, site fencing, and signs
shall be of a color and design so as to be both compatible and harmonious with
the surrounding uses and neighborhood;
   d.   Landscaping and Screening. The facility shall:
   (1)   Not impair the landscaping required by
Chapter 17.30 (Landscaping) for any concurrent use allowed by these
Regulations;
   (2)   Be screened from view from adjacent public rights-of-way through the
use of fencing, landscaping, or other approved materials, in compliance with
Section
17.24.060 (Fences, Walls and Hedges); and
   (3)   Be subject to landscaping and/or screening as determined through site
plan and architectural review.
   e.   Parking Requirements.
   (1)   No additional parking space shall be required for customers of a small
collection facility located in the established parking lot of the main use. One
space shall be provided for the attendant, if needed;
   (2)   Mobile recycling units shall have an area clearly marked to prohibit
other vehicular parking during hours when the mobile unit is scheduled to be
present;
   (3)   Use of parking spaces by the facility and by the attendant shall not
reduce available parking spaces below the minimum number required for the main
use unless a parking study shows that existing capacity is not fully utilized
during the time the recycling facility will be on the site;
   f.   Signs. Signs may be provided as follows:
   (1)   Recycling facilities may have identification signs with a maximum area
of fifteen percent per side of the structure or twelve square feet, whichever
is greater. In the case of a wheeled facility, the side shall be measured from
the ground to the top of the container;
   (2)   Signs shall be consistent with the character of their location;
   (3)   The sign shall contain only the hours of operation, redemption values,
and the name of the operator, owner, or beneficiary; and
   (4)   Directional signs, in compliance with
Chapter 17.38 (Signs), bearing no advertising message, may be installed with
the approval of the director if found necessary to facilitate traffic
circulation or if the facility is not visible from the public right-of-way.
   g.   Operating Standards. Facilities shall:
   (1)   Accept only glass, metal or plastic containers, paper, and reusable
items;
   (2)   Use no power-driven processing equipment except for reverse vending
machines;
   (3)   Use containers that are constructed with durable waterproof and
rustproof material, covered when the site is not attended, secured from
unauthorized removal of material, and shall be of a capacity sufficient to
accommodate materials collected and the collection schedule;
   (4)   Store all recyclable materials in containers or in the mobile unit
vehicle, and shall not leave materials outside of containers when attendant is
not present;
   (5)   Be maintained free of litter and any other undesirable materials, and
the site for mobile facilities, at which truck(s) or containers are removed at
the end of each collection day, shall be swept at the end of each collection
day;
   h.   Hours of Operation. Attended facilities located within one hundred feet
of a property zoned or occupied for residential use shall operate only between
the hours of nine a.m. and seven p.m.;
   3.   Large Collection Facilities. A large collection facility which is
larger than three hundred fifty square feet, or on a separate parcel not
accessory to a "primary" use, which has a permanent structure may be allowed in
the CS zoning district subject to conditional use permit approval and the
following standards.
   a.   Location Requirements. The facility shall not abut a parcel zoned or
planned for residential use.
   b.   Container Location. Any containers provided for "after hours" donation
of recyclable materials shall be permanently located at least one hundred feet
from any residential zoning district, constructed of sturdy, rustproof
materials, with sufficient capacity to accommodate materials collected, and
secured from unauthorized entry or removal of materials.
   c.   Screening. The facility shall be screened from the public rights-of-
way, within an enclosed structure, or behind fences, walls, or screen planting.
   d.   Setbacks, Landscaping. Structure setbacks and landscape requirements
shall be those provided for the applicable zoning district.
   e.   Outdoor Storage. All exterior storage of material shall be in sturdy
containers which are secured, and maintained in good condition at all times. No
storage, excluding truck trailers, shall be visible above the height of the
wall.
   f.   Operating Standards. The facility shall be operated and maintained in
compliance with the following:
   (1)   The site shall be maintained clean, sanitary, and free of litter and
any other undesirable materials, and shall be cleaned of loose debris on a
daily basis. Temporarily stored materials shall be moved to an approved
processing site as soon as practical; and
   (2)   No dust, fumes, odor, smoke, or vibration above ambient levels shall
be detectable from adjacent parcels.
   4.   Time Limits. Any permit issued in compliance with this section shall
have a maximum term established by the approved land use permit. Prior to
permit renewal, the director shall consider the permittee's history of
compliance with the established conditions of approval, as well as the
provisions of this section and the Municipal Code.
   E.   General Standards. All recycling facilities shall comply with the
following standards:
   1.   Signs. Facilities shall be provided identification and informational
signs, as follows, provided that all signs shall meet the standards of the
applicable zoning district:
   a.   All collection containers and reverse vending machines shall be clearly
marked to identify the type of material which may be deposited, and display a
notice stating that no material shall be left outside the recycling enclosure
or machine; and
   b.   The facility shall be clearly marked to identify the name and telephone
number of the operator and the hours of operation.
   Identification and informational signs and directional signs bearing no
advertising message may be installed with the approval of the director, if
necessary to facilitate traffic circulation.
   2.   Refuse Disposal. The facility shall maintain adequate on-site refuse
containers for the disposal of non-recyclable, non-hazardous waste.
17.38.145 Two-unit residential development and urban lot splits.
   A.   Purpose and intent. This section is intended to:
   1.   Preserve, protect, and enhance the character of the city's different
residential neighborhoods;
   2.   Provide for and regulate urban lot splits and two-unit residential
development in a manner consistent with the requirements of Senate Bill 9;
   3.   Promote and ensure safe development in high fire zones.
   B.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, terms shall be defined
as follows:
   1.   "Accessory dwelling unit" has the same meaning ascribed in Section
17.38.155.C.1.
   2.   "Junior accessory dwelling unit" has the same meaning ascribed in
Section
17.38.155.C.10.
   3.   "Existing structure" means an original dwelling on the property.
   4.   "SB 9" or "Senate Bill 9" means the state law approved by the Governor
on September 16, 2021, amending California Government Code Section 66452.6 and
adding California Government Code Section 65852.21 and 66411.7.
   5.   "Two-residential unit development" means a housing development
containing no more than two (2) residential units within a single-family
residential zone permitted pursuant to the regulations set forth in SB 9.
   6.   "Unit" means any dwelling unit or units created pursuant to California
Government Code Section 66452.21, an existing structure, a primary dwelling
unit, an accessory dwelling unit, or a junior accessory dwelling unit.
   7.   "Urban lot split" means a parcel map subdivision permitted pursuant to
the regulations set forth in SB 9 that creates no more than two (2) parcels of
approximately equal size.
   C.   Applicability; ministerial compliance review.
   1.   This section shall apply to all two-residential unit developments and
urban lot splits proposed for lots in RSL (Single-Family Low Density
Residential) zones pursuant to the regulations set forth in SB 9. Except as
expressly provided in this section or SB 9, all other regulations of the
underlying zone of a property developed pursuant to SB 9, including all
applicable regulations from the Pismo Beach Municipal Code, shall apply.
   2.   Required approvals.
   a.   All two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits outside the
Coastal Zone shall be required to obtain zoning clearance and a building permit
and shall be subject to ministerial review by the Community Development
Director or designee to determine whether the criteria for approval have been
met. An urban lot split shall be processed as a parcel map, but no
discretionary review or public hearing shall be conducted if all required
criteria have been met.
   b.   Projects in the Coastal Appeal Zone shall be required to obtain a
coastal development permit and a building permit. The requirement for public
hearing is hereby waived. An urban lot split shall be processed as a parcel
map, but no discretionary review or public hearing shall be conducted if all
required criteria have been met. Action on a project is final, unless appealed
to the California Coastal Commission within ten (10) days of the Coastal
Commission's receipt of the notice of final action.
   c.   Projects in the Coastal Zone, non-appealable, shall be required to
obtain a coastal development permit and a building permit. The requirement for
public hearing is hereby waived. An urban lot split shall be processed as a
parcel map, but no discretionary review or public hearing shall be conducted if
all required criteria have been met.
   d.   For two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits in the
Coastal Zone, appealable or non-appealable, for which a public hearing
requirement has been waived pursuant to this subsection, at least ten (10)
calendar days prior to the issuance of a coastal development permit, the City
shall provide notice by first class mail of the pending application for
development. This notice shall be provided to the persons, and contain the
information, identified in Section
17.124.090 for appealable and non-appealable developments as applicable.
   3.   All applicants for a two-residential unit development or an urban lot
split shall submit an application including:
   a.   A sworn statement affirming eligibility under SB 9 regulations;
   b.   All materials required by the Community Development Director;
   c.   Applicants for an urban lot split shall, in addition, sign an affidavit
stating that the owner intends to occupy one (1) of the housing units as their
principal residence for at least three (3) years from the date of the approval
of the urban lot split. Provided, however, this provision shall not apply to an
owner that is a community land trust or qualified nonprofit corporation as
those terms are defined and described in California Revenue and Taxation Code
Sections 402.1 and 214.15, respectively;
   4.   The City may, at the applicant's expense, conduct independent inquiries
and investigation to ascertain the veracity of any or all portions of the sworn
statement.
   D.   General requirements. An applicant seeking approval of a two-
residential unit development or urban lot split shall:
   1.   Comply with SB 9; all objective requirements of other applicable state
law including the Subdivision Map Act; the Pismo Beach Municipal Code,
including Title 17 and Title 16, except as expressly provided in SB 9 or in
this section; and all objective standards of this section.
   2.   Execute and record a covenant, supplied by the City and subject to the
approval of the City Attorney or designee, that contains the following
provisions:
   a.   Non-residential uses are prohibited on the property subject to
development under SB 9 and this section;
   b.   Rental or leasing of any unit or units on the property for a period of
thirty (30) days or less is prohibited;
   c.   Ongoing compliance with SB 9 requirements and restrictions is required;
   d.   Access to the public right-of-way shall be maintained in perpetuity;
   e.   All required parking shall be maintained;
   f.   If the applicant is seeking approval of an urban lot split, any
subsequent urban lot split of the property is prohibited.
   E.   Parking. All two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits
shall comply with the following objective standards for parking:
   1.   One (1) enclosed or partially enclosed parking space is required for
each unit created pursuant to the regulations in SB 9 and this section and such
parking space shall be located on the same parcel as the unit.
   2.   Parking required for a unit created pursuant to SB 9 and this section
is in addition to any parking required for the existing structure, should it
remain on the property. If an existing garage, carport, or other parking is
converted or demolished in order to construct the new unit, the required
parking space(s) that are displaced shall be replaced on the same property to
satisfy the parking requirements of the existing structure.
   3.   Exceptions. Additional parking spaces required under subsection
17.38.145.E.1 shall not be required for units developed pursuant to SB 9 and
this section if the property upon which the unit is created meets one (1) or
more of the following criteria:
   a.   Is within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of a high-quality
transit corridor, as defined in California Public Resources Code Section 21155,
or a major transit stop, as defined in California Public Resources Code Section
21064.3, or
   b.   There is a car share vehicle located within one (1) block of the
project.
   4.   Required off-street parking may be provided as tandem parking on an
existing driveway provided all requirements in subsection
17.34.070.A.5.a are met.
   5.   Each required parking space shall meet the following standards:
   a.   Each parking space shall have minimum dimensions of nine (9) feet by
twenty (20) feet.
   b.   All parking spaces shall be located behind existing or future sidewalk,
or other public right-of-way.
   c.   All parking spaces shall be located on an all-weather surface as
approved by the City Engineer or designee (e.g., hardscape, gravel) and be
accessed by a driveway apron or curb cut.
   F.   Development standards. All two-residential developments units and urban
lot splits shall comply with the following objective development standards:
   1.   Driveways.
   a.   A driveway may be shared by not more than two (2) units and no more
than two (2) lots.
   b.   More than one (1) driveway per lot is prohibited on lots with less than
sixty (60) feet of public street frontage.
   2.   Setback requirements. All units in a two-residential unit development
and/or on an urban lot split shall comply with the setback standards for RSL
zones. Provided, however, no setback shall be required for an existing
structure or structure constructed in the same location and to the same
dimensions as the existing structure.
   3.   Occupancy.
   a.   Non-residential uses on the property subject to a two-residential unit
development or an urban lot split are prohibited.
   b.   Short-term rental prohibited. A short-term rental use of thirty (30)
days or less shall not be permitted in units developed pursuant to SB 9 and
this section. Units developed pursuant to SB 9 and this section shall be
occupied for terms longer than thirty (30) days.
   4.   Height. Height of a unit developed pursuant to SB 9 and the section
shall be no greater than permitted in RSL zones.
   5.   Lot coverage and maximum building areas. Lot coverage and maximum
building areas shall comply with the applicable standard for RSL zones, except
as provided in Section
17.38.145.G.
   6.   No accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit shall be
permitted on a parcel subject to an urban lot split under this section and also
improved with a two-residential unit development under this section.
   7.   Two-residential unit developments and urban lot splits are not
permitted on parcels located in the R-1 and RSL zones above the intersection of
Longview Avenue and Stratford Street in the Pismo Heights planning area due to
being in very high fire hazard severity zones, as determined by the California
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection pursuant to California Government
Code Section 51178, or within a high or very high fire hazard severity zone as
indicated on maps adopted by the California Department of Forestry and Fire
Protection pursuant to California Public Resources Code Section 4202 and is
coextensive with traffic flow and public safety concerns as this area has only
one (1) ingress and egress.
   8.   More than twenty-five (25) percent of the exterior structural walls of
the existing structure shall not be demolished if the existing structure has
been occupied by a tenant in the three (3) years prior to the submission of an
SB 9 Development Project application.
   9.   An urban lot split shall comply with SB 9 and the following standards:
   a.   No lot resulting from an urban lot split shall be smaller than one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
   b.   No lot resulting from an urban lot split shall have more than two (2)
residential units inclusive of any accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory
dwelling unit.
   c.   The two (2) lots resulting from an urban lot split shall be
approximately equal, and no smaller than forty (40) percent or larger than
sixty (60) percent of the lot area of the original parcel.
   d.   No flag lots shall be created as a result of an urban lot split if the
subject property is adjacent to an alley, located on a corner, or on a through
lot.
   e.   The width of any lot resulting from an urban lot split shall not be
less than twenty (20) feet wide.
   f.   The proposed parcel map shall demonstrate ability to access the public
right-of-way in perpetuity.
   G.   Exceptions. The Community Development Director shall approve an
exception to any of the standards specified in this section upon determining
that complying with the standards would physically preclude the construction of
up to two (2) residential units per lot or would physically preclude either of
the two (2) residential units from being eight hundred (800) square feet in
floor area.
   H.   Denial. The Building Official or Community Development Director may
deny an application for a two-residential unit development or an urban lot
split upon making both the following findings in writing based on a
preponderance of the evidence:
   1.   The proposal would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public
health and safety or the physical environment as defined and determined in
California Government Code Section 65589.5(d)(2).
   2.   There is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the
specific, adverse impact.
(Ord. O-2022-002 § 2, 2022)
17.38.150 Residential accessory uses and structures.
   When permitted in the zoning district applicable to a site (see Section
17.08.030, Residential District Land Uses and Permit Requirements), specific
residential accessory uses are subject to the provisions of this section.
Residential accessory uses include any use that is customarily related to a
residence, including but not limited to swimming pools, workshops, studios,
storage sheds, greenhouses, and garages.
   A.   General Requirements. All accessory uses and structures are subject to
the following standards, except where more restrictive requirements are
established by other provisions of this section for specific uses.
   1.   Relationship of Accessory Use to Principal Use. Accessory uses and
structures shall be incidental to and not alter the character of the site from
that created by the principal use.
   2.   Accessory Structure Setback Requirements. Accessory structures shall be
located a minimum of: twenty feet from the front property line; five feet from
side property lines; ten feet from the rear property line; and six feet from
any other structure on the site. Accessory structures shall also comply with
the blufftop setback requirements of Article II (Zoning Districts, Allowable
Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards).
   3.   Accessory Structure Height Limits. Accessory structures shall not
exceed a height of fifteen feet.
   B.   Antennas. Antennas are subject to the provisions of Section
17.38.040 (Antennas, Wireless Communications Facilities).
   C.   Decks. Decks are subject to the setback requirements of Section
17.22.060 (Allowed Projections into Setbacks).
   D.   Garage/Yard Sales. The sale of miscellaneous items by residents from a
yard or open garage is permitted up to four times per year per property, for a
maximum of three days per sale.
   E.   Garages and Carports. Garages and carports shall comply with the
following requirements.
   1.   Permit Requirement--Carports. Carports are allowed in multi-family
dwelling projects only, with conditional use permit approval.
   2.   Setbacks. A garage or carport shall be set back a minimum of twenty
feet from the front property line on parcels of four thousand square feet or
more, and fifteen feet on parcels less than four thousand square feet.
   3.   Floor Area. A detached accessory garage shall not occupy more than one
thousand square feet per dwelling unit (including any workshop or storage space
within the garage) unless a larger area is authorized by the director through
site plan and architectural review. The floor area of an accessory garage that
is attached to a principal structure is not limited, except as may be required
by the Uniform Building Code or any other applicable construction or fire code.
   F.   Greenhouses. An accessory greenhouse may occupy up to five hundred
square feet per dwelling unit or ten percent of the lot, whichever is smaller.
Larger greenhouses shall be considered to be "plant nurseries," and are
permitted only in the CS zoning district.
   G.   Home Occupations. Home occupations are subject to the requirements of
Section
17.38.070.
   H.   Swimming Pools/Spas/Hot Tubs. Private swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
are permitted accessory to approved residential uses on the same site, subject
to the following provisions:
   1.   Limitation on Use. The pool is to be used solely by occupants of the
dwelling(s) on the same site and their guests;
   2.   Setbacks. A pool/spa/hot tub shall be located at least five feet from
any property line; related equipment shall be located at least three feet from
the property line. These facilities shall also comply with any applicable
blufftop setback requirements established by Article II (Zoning Districts,
Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards); and
   3.   Fencing. The swimming pool shall be secured by fencing and/or building
walls to prevent uncontrolled access by children, in compliance with the
Uniform Building Code, Appendix Chapter 12, Division III.
   I.   Tennis and Other Recreational Courts. Non-commercial outdoor tennis
courts and courts for other sports (for example, racquetball) accessory to a
residential use are subject to the following requirements:
   1.   Fencing: Shall be subject to the height limits of Section
17.24.060 (Fences, Walls, and Hedges), but shall not exceed a maximum height of
twelve feet; and
   2.   Lighting. Court lighting shall not exceed a maximum height of fourteen
feet, measured from the court surface. The lighting shall be directed downward,
shall only illuminate the court, and shall not illuminate adjacent property.
   J.   Vehicle Storage. The storage of vehicles, including incidental
restoration and repair, is subject to Section
17.38.170 (Storage, Outdoor).
   K.   Workshops or Studios. Any accessory structure intended solely or
primarily for engaging in artwork, crafts, light hand manufacturing, mechanical
work, and similar activities is subject to the following standards when located
in a residential zoning district.
   1.   Limitation on Use: An accessory structure may be constructed or used as
a workshop or studio in any residential zoning district solely for non-
commercial hobbies or amusements; for maintenance of the principal structure or
yards; for artistic endeavors, i.e., painting, photography or sculpture;
maintenance or mechanical work on vehicles owned or operated by the occupants;
or for other similar purposes. Any use of accessory workshops for any
commercial activity shall meet the standards for home occupations (Section
17.38.070).
   2.   Floor Area. A workshop shall not occupy an area larger than twenty-five
percent of the floor area of the principal building; except that where a
workshop is combined with a garage, subsection E (Garages) of this section
applies.
17.38.155 Accessory dwelling units.
   A.   Purpose and intent. This chapter is intended to:
      1.   Provide for and regulate accessory dwelling units and junior
accessory dwelling units on lots developed or proposed to be developed with
single-family dwellings;
      2.   Contribute market-rate and affordable housing to the community's
housing stock;
      3.   Provide for greater occupational, household type, and income-level
diversity within neighborhoods;
      4.   Make more efficient use of existing infrastructure;
      5.   Provide for the creation of accessory dwelling units and junior
accessory dwelling units in a manner that is consistent with requirements set
forth in California Government Code Section 65852.2-65852.22, as amended from
time to time.
   B.   Consistency with adopted plans. Accessory dwelling units and junior
accessory dwelling units designed in accordance with this chapter are a
residential use that is consistent with the existing general plan and zoning
designation for the lot, in accordance with the following findings:
      1.   Accessory dwelling units designed in accordance with this chapter
are consistent with the General Plan.
      2.   Accessory dwelling units designed in accordance with this chapter
require no discretionary approval.
      3.   Accessory dwelling units designed in accordance with this chapter
will be found to have no adverse effect either individually or cumulatively on
environmental resources.
      4.   Accessory dwelling units located above the intersection of Longview
Avenue and Stratford Street in the Pismo Heights planning area may increase the
number of families that are in danger in emergency situations, because of the
lack of secondary access in this area.
   C.   Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, terms shall be defined
as follows:
      1.   "Accessory dwelling unit" or "ADU" means an attached or detached
residential dwelling unit that provides complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons, and provides permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation on the same parcel as the primary
unit, in compliance with Government Code Section 65852.2. An accessory dwelling
unit includes an efficiency unit, and a manufactured home as defined in Health
and Safety Code Section 18007. Accessory dwelling unit does not include "junior
accessory dwelling unit."
      2.   "Attached ADU" means an accessory dwelling unit that:
         a.   Shares at least one common wall with the primary unit; and
         b.   Is not fully contained within the existing space of the primary
unit.
      3.   "Accessory structure" means a structure that is accessory and
incidental to a dwelling located on the same lot.
      4.   "Conversion ADU" means the conversion of any portion of a legal
accessory structure, or any portion of a single-family dwelling, or any garage,
for the purpose of creating an ADU. Conversion ADUs can include additions of no
more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet. Any conversion that exceeds
these limits shall be considered a new construction ADU for the purposes of
this chapter.
      If applying to convert an existing accessory structure, applicant shall
demonstrate that the structure was erected with all required permits, or that
the structure is legal nonconforming. Structures that were built without
benefit of permits are not eligible for conversion under this chapter and must
be processed as a new construction ADU.
      5.   "Detached accessory dwelling unit" means an accessory dwelling unit
that does not share a common wall with the primary unit and is not a junior
accessory dwelling unit.
      6.   "Director" means the director of the Community Development
Department or designee.
      7.   "Director's action" means the required submittal of an
administrative approval application and review by the Community Development
Director.
      8.   "Efficiency unit" has the same meaning as defined in Health and
Safety Code Section 17958.1.
      9.   "Efficiency kitchen" means limited kitchen facilities including a
sink, a refrigerator, small electric kitchen appliances that do not require
electrical service greater than 120 volts, an appropriately sized food
preparation counter, and storage cabinets. Full-sized electric, gas, or propane
cooking appliances are not allowed in an efficiency kitchen.
      10.   "Junior accessory dwelling unit" or "JADU" means an accessory
dwelling unit no more than five hundred (500) square feet in size and contained
entirely within a single-family residence. JADUs shall include independent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, and cooking (area meeting the
definition of efficiency kitchen but not a standard kitchen), and separate
sanitation facilities, or shared sanitation facilities with the primary unit.
      11.   "Living area" means the interior habitable area of a dwelling unit,
including basements and attics, but does not include a garage or any accessory
structure.
      12.   "New construction ADU" means any ADU that does not meet the
definition of a conversion ADU.
      13.   "Nonconforming zoning condition" means a physical improvement on a
property that does not conform with current zoning standards.
      14.   "Passageway" means a pathway that is unobstructed, clear to the
sky, and extends from a street to one entrance of the ADU. Passageways are not
required for detached ADUs.
      15.   "Primary unit" means the existing or proposed single-family or
multifamily residential structure on the site that is not the accessory
dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit.
      16.   "Public transit" means a location, including, but not limited to, a
bus stop or train station, where the public may access buses, trains, subways,
and other forms of transportation that charge set fares, run on fixed routes,
and are available to the public.
      17.   "Single-family dwelling" means a building designed for and/or
occupied exclusively by one family, or one or more persons occupying premises
and living as a single housekeeping unit, which is not attached to or located
on a lot with commercial uses. Single-family dwellings contain one dwelling on
one lot. Single-family dwellings may also include approved accessory dwelling
units and/or junior accessory dwelling unit. Single-family dwelling also
includes factory-built, modular housing units, constructed in compliance with
the Uniform Building Code (UBC), and mobile homes/manufactured housing units
that comply with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974, placed on permanent foundations.
      18.   "Tandem parking" means that two or more automobiles are parked on a
driveway or in any other location on a lot, lined up one behind the other.
   D.   Applicability.
      1.   Application. Where this chapter does not contain a particular
standard or procedure, conventional zoning standards and procedures shall
apply.
      2.   Areas where ADUs are allowed. ADUs and JADUs are permitted on lots
zoned to allow single-family or multifamily dwelling residential uses, with the
exceptions noted in subsection D., on lots or parcels where there is only one
existing or planned single-family residence, and where the required development
standards are met.
      3.   Unit types allowed.
         a.   Single-family dwellings. On lots with existing or proposed
detached or semi-detached single-family dwellings, the following are allowed:
            i.   Up to one (1) ADU and one (1) JADU per single-family dwelling.
         b.   Multifamily dwellings. On lots with existing or proposed attached
multifamily developments such as apartments, condominiums, and townhomes, the
following are allowed:
            i.   Up to two detached ADUs; and
            ii.   Conversion ADUs associated with up to 25% of the number of
multifamily units. Conversion ADUs in multifamily developments must be
converted from areas not previously used as living space including, but not
limited to, storage rooms, boiler rooms, passageways, attics, basements, or
garages, if each unit complies with state building standards for dwellings.
      4.   Exceptions.
         a.   ADUs and JADUs shall not be established in any mobile home
subdivision, mobilehome park, or recreational vehicle park.
         b.   Due to traffic flow and public safety issues, ADUs and JADUs are
not permitted in the R-1 zone above the intersection of Longview Avenue and
Stratford Street, in the Pismo Heights planning area.
         c.   Projects on hillsides. Development of an ADU on a slope that
exceeds twenty percent (20%) is prohibited.
         d.   No subdivision of property. No subdivision of property shall be
allowed where an ADU or JADU has been established unless the subdivision meets
all requirements of zoning and subdivision regulations. Additionally, while an
ADU or JADU may be rented separate from the primary residence, said dwelling
unit may not be sold or otherwise conveyed separate from the primary unit.
   E.   Permit requirements. Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory
dwelling units are permitted with approval of either a zoning clearance,
consistent with Section
17.42.020, or a coastal development permit, consistent with Section
17.03.020 and as otherwise provided in this section.
      1.   Projects outside Coastal Zone. A zoning clearance and building
permit is required. Pursuant to Government Code Section 65852.2, applications
for accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units shall be
approved or denied ministerially, and no public notice or hearing shall be
required.
      2.   Ministerial review time. Pursuant to Government Code Sections
65852.2 and 65852.22, applications that are subject to ministerial review must
be approved, or a notice of deficiency sent, within sixty (60) days of receipt
of a completed permit application, which includes all items required for either
a zoning clearance or coastal development permit and for a building permit.
Applications not including all required items will not be accepted for
processing. Such applications resubmitted in response to a notice of deficiency
must be approved or a notice of deficiency sent, within sixty (60) days.
      3.   Fees. Prior to issuance of a building permit for an accessory
dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit, the applicant shall pay all
applicable fees.
         a.   No impact fees shall be imposed on an accessory dwelling unit or
junior accessory dwelling unit less than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet
in size.
         b.   Impact fees charged for accessory dwelling units greater than or
equal to 750 square feet shall be charged proportionately in relation to the
square footage of the primary unit.
         c.   For the purposes of this section, "impact fee" includes "fees" as
defined in California Government Code Section 66000(b) and fees specified in
California Government Code Section 66477. Impact fees do not include utility
connection fees or capacity charges.
   F.   Density. For purposes of calculating the density on a lot, an accessory
dwelling unit and/or junior accessory dwelling unit shall not be counted toward
overall density for the lot. Only one primary and one accessory dwelling unit
and/or junior accessory dwelling unit are permitted per legal lot or parcel on
applicable parcels identified in Section
17.38.155.D.
   G.   Parking.
      1.   All areas. The following parking provisions apply to all accessory
dwelling units in all areas in the city. No additional parking is required for
JADUs.
         a.   Required parking in addition to primary residence. Parking spaces
required for an accessory dwelling unit are in addition to parking required for
the primary unit.
         b.   Tandem spaces. Required off-street parking may be provided as
tandem parking on an existing driveway.
         c.   Within setback areas. Required off-street parking may be located
within minimum required setback areas unless findings are made that parking in
setback areas is not feasible based upon specific site conditions or regional
topographical or fire and life safety conditions. Additionally, the following
standards must be met:
            i.   Each space shall have minimum dimensions of ten (10) feet by
twenty (20) feet.
            ii.   All parking spaces shall be located behind existing or future
sidewalk, or other public right-of-way.
            iii.   Parking spaces shall be located on an all-weather surface as
approved by the City Engineer (e.g., hardscape, gravel) and accessed by a
driveway apron or curb cut.
      2.   Outside the Coastal Zone. In addition to the requirements of section
A. above, for ADUs outside the Coastal Zone, one (1) parking space per
accessory dwelling unit is required.
      3.   Exceptions. Additional parking for ADUs shall not be required for
units meeting any of the following standards:
         a.   The ADU is located within one-half mile walking distance of
public transit.
         b.   The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically
significant historic district.
         c.   The ADU is part of the proposed or existing primary residence or
accessory structure.
         d.   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to
the occupant of the ADU.
         e.   When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of the
ADU.
   H.   Development standards.
      1.   Development standards for new construction accessory dwelling units.
         a.   Occupancy. The following occupancy standards shall be applied to
every ADU and JADU in the city:
            i.   Short-term rental use prohibited. In no case shall a short-
term rental use of less than thirty (30) days be permitted in JADUs or ADUs and
these units shall be occupied for terms longer than thirty (30) days.
            ii.   Sale. ADUs and JADUS shall not be sold separately from the
primary unit.
               (a)   Exception. An ADU can be sold or conveyed separately from
the primary residence to a qualified buyer if the property was built or
developed by a qualified nonprofit corporation and all provisions of California
Government Code Section 65852.26 are met.
            iii.   Owner residency. The following requirements apply to all
JADUs. Additionally, the following requirements apply to all ADUs except those
permitted between January 1, 2020 and January 1, 2025.
               (a)   Unless owned by a government agency, land trust, or public
or nonprofit housing organization, the property owner shall permanently reside,
as evidenced by a homeowner's property tax exemption, on the parcel in either
the primary unit, ADU, or JADU.
               (b)   A deed restriction shall be recorded against the title of
the property that contains the ADU or JADU, prior to issuance of a building
permit. Such deed restriction shall stipulate the owner residency requirement
and that the ADU or JADU cannot be sold separately.
         b.   Minimum parcel size. No minimum parcel size shall be required to
establish an ADU or JADU.
         c.   Unit size.
            i.   Minimum unit size, JADU or ADU: One hundred fifty (150) square
feet ("efficiency unit" per California Health and Safety Code Section 17958.1).
            ii.   Maximum unit size, JADU: Five hundred (500) square feet.
            iii.   Maximum unit size, ADU:
               (a)   Conversion ADU: Fifty percent (50%) of primary unit size.
               (b)   New construction ADU: Eight hundred fifty (850) square
feet (studio or 1 bedroom), 1,000 square feet (2 bedrooms), or 50% of the
primary unit, whichever is smaller.
               (c)   Regardless of subsections i.-ii. of this section and other
site standards such as private open space or vegetation, an ADU must be allowed
to be at least eight hundred square feet.
         d.   Setbacks.
            i.   JADUs and conversion ADUs. Setbacks shall be sufficient for
fire safety in conformance with the Building Code and Fire Code. Additions up
to one hundred fifty (150) square feet shall meet setback requirements for new
construction ADUs.
            ii.   New construction ADUs. ADUs shall comply with front and
street side setbacks for the applicable zoning district. Minimum side and rear
setbacks shall be four (4) feet or the setback for the applicable zoning
district, whichever is less, with the following exceptions:
               (a)   No setback shall be required for an existing living area
or accessory structure, or a structure constructed in the same location and to
the same dimensions as an existing structure that is converted to an ADU or to
a portion of an ADU.
         e.   Height.
            i.   JADUs and conversion ADUs. Additions of up to one hundred
fifty (150) square feet shall meet height requirements for new construction
ADUs.
            ii.   New construction ADUs. Height shall be no greater than
permitted in the applicable zoning district height standards, dependent upon
ADU configuration, but not less than sixteen (16) feet.
         f.   Lot coverage and maximum building area.
            i.   JADUs and conversion ADUs: Additions of up to one hundred
fifty (150) square feet shall meet lot coverage and maximum building area
requirements for new construction ADUs.
            ii.   New construction ADUs: Lot coverage and maximum building area
shall comply with the standard for the applicable zoning district, except that
an ADU of up to eight hundred (800) square feet shall be allowed, regardless of
lot coverage and maximum building area.
         g.   Design. The design, materials, and color of a new construction
ADU shall be compatible with that of the primary unit.
         h.   Number of bedrooms. There is no maximum number of bedrooms for an
ADU or JADU.
         i.   Utility services. The primary unit, ADU, and JADU may be served
from the same gas, electricity, and water lines, at the discretion of the
property owner. No development shall be approved that would exceed the capacity
of the municipal utility systems. Specifically, all applications received for
ADUs and JADUs shall be accompanied by evidence provided by the municipal
utility provider that there are adequate services/capacities to serve the
proposed development.
         j.   Water conservation. All plumbing fixtures in the primary unit, an
ADU, and a JADU must meet current Title 24 requirements for water conservation.
         k.   Consistency with codes. New development shall comply with all
local, state, or federal regulations that apply to the property, including the
applicable requirements of the general plan/local coastal plan and certified
zoning ordinance.
         I.   Fire sprinkler requirements. ADUs and JADUs shall not be required
to include fire sprinklers if they are not required for the primary unit.
   J.   Illegal accessory dwelling unit. The establishment of an ADU or JADU
without a zoning clearance or coastal development permit is declared to be
unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor and a public nuisance.
(Ord. O-2020-007 § 1, 2020: Ord. O-2018-011 § 6, 2018: Ord. 07-05 § 1 (Exh. A
(part)), 2007)
17.38.160 Service stations--Retail sales.
   Auto and other vehicle service stations shall comply with the provisions of
this section.
   A.   General Standards. The following standards apply to all service
stations.
   1.   Service Bays. Service bay entrances shall be oriented away, or screened
from, adjacent streets where determined by the review authority to be feasible.
   2.   Merchandise. All merchandise shall be stored and displayed within the
service station or garage building or be otherwise screened from public view as
approved by the review authority, except for tires, batteries, and lubrication
items which shall be maintained or stored in an orderly manner.
   3.   Used/Discarded Parts. No used or discarded automotive parts or
equipment, or disabled, junked, or wrecked vehicles shall be located outside
the service station building or garage, unless located entirely within an
approved screened storage area. No house trailers, RVs or boats shall be stored
on the premises.
   4.   Service Activities. All hydraulic hoists and pits and all lubrication,
greasing, and permitted repair shall be located and occur entirely within an
enclosed structure. No repair activities other than the installation of small
parts which do not require the disassembly of any other parts shall occur
outside of the structure.
   5.   Parking/Storage of Vehicles. All vehicles being repaired or waiting for
repair shall be parked on-site. No unsightly storage of vehicles shall be
allowed.
   B.   Convenience Retail Sales. The retail sales of food and beverage
products and other general merchandise in conjunction with fuel sales is
allowed subject to conditional use permit approval in compliance with Section
17.42.050, and the following standards:
   1.   Parking. On-site parking shall comply with the requirements of
Chapter 17.34 (Parking and Loading), and shall include sufficient spaces for
all employees on a single shift.
   2.   Restrooms. Restrooms shall be provided, and shall be available to
customers.
   3.   Facility Upgrading. Applications involving existing stations shall
include proposed measures to upgrade the facility to comply all applicable
provisions of this Zoning Code.
   4.   Noise. Air compressors and other noise producing equipment shall be
located entirely within a building or otherwise constructed or shielded to
comply with the requirements of Section
17.24.090 (Noise).
17.38.170 Storage, outdoor.
   A.   Screening Required. Outdoor storage areas shall be effectively screened
from the view of public rights-of-way, by fences, walls, and/or screening,
landscaping, as determined by the review authority.
   B.   Vehicles for Sale. No vehicles may be stored or displayed for sale on
any vacant site or at any vacant commercial/industrial location except in
compliance with the land use permit requirements of Section
17.12.030 (Commercial District Land Uses and Permit Requirements).
   C.   Building Materials. Building materials for use on the same premises may
be stored on the site only during the time that a valid building permit is in
effect for construction.
   D.   Storage Containers. Enclosed "temporary" storage (i.e., cargo
containers, sea-trains, and similar containers) shall only be permitted after
obtaining a temporary use permit in compliance with Section
17.42.040.
17.38.180 Vacation clubs.
   A vacation club is a transient visitor lodging use that is intended or
principally available for occupancy by its membership rather than the general
public, where members do not have an ownership interest in a specific unit.
When not fully occupied by members, the vacation club facilities shall be made
available for stays by the general public. The following standards and
requirements shall apply to vacation clubs and similar restricted-occupancy
lodging uses:
   A.   Permit Requirement. Conditional use permit approval shall be required
to authorize a new vacation club or the conversion of existing structures to a
vacation club use. In order to ensure the availability to the general public of
adequate lodging facilities in the coastal zone, the conditional use permit for
a vacation club may be approved only if the planning commission first finds
that the use will not interfere with the provision of an adequate supply of
transient lodging facilities to meet the needs of the general public.
   B.   Ownership Limitation. Vacation club members may have an ownership
interest in the club entity, but a divided or undivided interest in a specific
property which is in the form of a timeshare is specifically prohibited.
   C.   Location. Vacation clubs shall not be allowed on any oceanfront parcel
or site.
   D.   Maximum Number of Units. A vacation club shall not exceed a maximum of
twenty-five sleeping rooms or twelve multi-room suites.
   E.   Development Standards. All development standards applicable to hotels
and motels shall also apply to vacation clubs, except as otherwise provided in
this section.
   F.   Availability to Public Required. The conditions of approval shall
provide that, when not fully occupied by members, vacation club facilities
shall be made available to the general public. This requirement may be
satisfied by:
   1.   Providing priority status to members to reserve rooms or suites up to
forty-eight hours in advance of a stay;
   2.   Within forty-eight hours in advance of a stay, making all unreserved
rooms or suites available on a confirmed reservation basis to the general
public;
   3.   Allowing the general public to make tentative reservations at any time
in advance of a stay for up to twenty-five percent of the rooms or suites,
subject to confirmation within forty-eight hours prior to the stay; or
   4.   Other means as may be acceptable to the review authority.
   G.   Fee Requirements. Vacation clubs shall be subject to the following fees
in addition to all other fees required by the city.
   1.   The conditions of approval shall require the recordation of an
enforceable agreement, to be approved by the council, which provides that the
vacation club shall pay a service fee to the city for stays by members. The
fees shall be paid to the city on a monthly basis. The amount of the fees shall
be calculated as follows: the annual member assessment generated by the unit
used on a per day basis multiplied by ten percent, multiplied by the number of
unit/days of occupancy by members.
   2.   For units rented to the general public, the club shall be subject to
the provisions of
Chapter 3.20 of the Municipal Code requiring the payment of transient occupancy
taxes.
17.38.190 Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals.
   Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals shall be located at least five
hundred feet from any residential zoning district, and all facilities for
keeping animals during diagnosis or treatment shall be located entirely within
a structure.
17.38.200 Warehouse retail stores.
   Warehouse-type retail stores shall be designed and located in compliance
with the following standards:
   A.   Building and Site Design. Building and site design shall complement
surrounding commercial and/or industrial development. Structures shall be
comparable to the architectural and design quality expected of new structures
in the area, including quality of materials, structure design and orientation,
site design, landscaping, and buffering. The structure shall reflect the retail
aspect of the use by incorporating storefront features, e.g., facade
ornamentation and special detailing which identify the entryway and provide
pedestrian-level interest to the facade.
   B.   Buffering and Screening. These facilities shall be screened or
buffered, as appropriate, to ensure compatibility with adjacent land uses.
Particular attention shall be given to screening or providing buffers for
parking, loading and storage areas, solid waste containers, auto service areas,
areas with high noise levels, and other features that are visible or can be
heard from off-site.
   C.   Development Near Residential Zoning Districts. When evaluating
applications for warehouse retail stores near residential zoning districts, the
review authority shall give particular attention to the potential traffic,
noise, visual and other effects of warehouse retail uses on residential uses.
   D.   Traffic, Parking.
   1.   Parking Lot Layout. The review authority shall specifically consider
the impacts of the use and parking of shopping carts on the parking lot design.
   2.   Pedestrian Requirements. Because of high on-site pedestrian and auto
activity, the design shall include clearly defined structure entrances,
specially designated areas to accommodate customer pickup, and pedestrian walks
from parking areas to the structure.
   3.   Site Location. The use shall be located only on streets determined by
the director to have adequate traffic capacity.
Article IV LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES
Chapter 17.40 APPLICATIONS--FILING AND PROCESSING
17.40.010 Purpose of article.
   This Article provides procedures and requirements for the preparation,
filing, and processing of applications for the land use permits required by
this Zoning Code.
17.40.020 Authority for land use and zoning decisions.
   Table 4-1 (Review Authority) identifies the city official or body
responsible for reviewing and making decisions on each type of application,
land use permit and other approvals required by this Zoning Code.
17.40.030 Concurrent permit processing.
   When a single project incorporates different land uses or features so that
this Zoning Code requires multiple land use permit applications, all the
applications shall be reviewed, and approved or denied, by the highest level
review authority assigned by Table 4-1 to any of the required applications.
(For example, a project that requires a zoning map amendment and a use permit
shall be reviewed, and approved or denied by the council, where a use permit
application by itself would be reviewed and acted upon by the commission.)
17.40.040 Application preparation and filing.
   The preparation and filing of applications for land use permits, amendments
(e.g., general plan, zoning map and Zoning Code) and other matters pertaining
to this Zoning Code shall comply with the following requirements.
   A.   Pre-Application Review. A prospective applicant or agent is encouraged
to request a pre-application review prior to completion of project design and
the formal submittal of a permit application. A request by an applicant for
pre-application review, accompanied by preliminary project plans and designs
and the required filing fee, will be reviewed by all affected city departments.
The reviewing departments will inform the applicant of city requirements as
they apply to the proposed development project, provide a preliminary list of
issues that will likely be of concern during formal application review, suggest
possible alternatives or modifications to the project, and identify any
technical studies that may be necessary for the environmental review process
when a formal application is filed.
   B.   Application Contents. Applications shall include the forms provided by
the department, and all information and materials required by the application
content requirements list for the specific type of application (i.e.,
conditional use permit, variance, or others).
   C.   Eligibility, Filing. Applications may be made by the owner of the
subject property, or by a lessee or any other person, with the consent of the
property owner. Applications shall be filed with the department.
   D.   Posting of Notice. At the same time that a land use permit application
is filed with the department, the applicant shall post the site with a notice
in compliance with California Code of Regulations Section 13328.4, using the
form provided by the department.
   TABLE 4-1
REVIEW AUTHORITY
                    Role of Review Authority (1)   
 Type of Decision  Director  Planning Commission  City Council   
                         Role of Review Authority (1)   
 Type of Decision      Director           Planning     City Council   
                                               Commission  
 Administrative and
Amendments  
Interpretations          Decision (2)          Appeal        Appeal
General Plan/LCP         Recommend             Recommend     Decision
Amendment
Sphere Amendments/       Recommend             Recommend     Decision
Annexations
Zoning Code Amendment    Recommend             Recommend     Decision
Zoning Map Amendment     Recommend             Recommend     Decision
 Land Use Permits and
Development Approvals  
Zoning Clearance         Decision (2)          Appeal        Appeal
Site Plan and
Architectural Review
a. Development in RSL,
RSM, and RR zoning       Decision (2)          Appeal        Appeal
districts;
b. Development in all    Recommend             Decision      Appeal
other zoning districts.
c. Appealable Coastal    Recommend             Decision      Appeal
Zone development
Sign Permit              See Section 17.36.050 Appeal
Minor Use Permit (3)     Decision (2)          Appeal        Appeal
Temporary Use Permit (3) Decision              Appeal        Appeal
Conditional Use Permit   Recommend             Decision      Appeal
Planned Development      Recommend             Recommend     Decision
Permit
Specific Plan            Recommend             Recommend     Decision
Variance                 Recommend             Decision      Appeal
Development Agreement    Recommend             Recommend     Decision
 
   Notes:
   (1) "Recommend" means that the review authority makes a recommendation to a
higher decision-making body; "Decision" means that the review authority makes
the final decision on the matter; "Appeal" means that the review authority may
consider and decide upon appeals to the decision of an earlier decision-making
body, in compliance with
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals).
   (2) The director may refer any matter subject to his/her decision to the
commission, so that the commission may instead make the decision.
   (3) Minor and temporary use permit procedures include public notice
requirements, and are approved by the director, except art shows are approved
by the planning commission.
   (4) The commission shall decide sign permit applications on sites with more
than three signs, or where an applicant requests an exception to sign standards
in compliance with Section 17.36.050 (Sign Permits Required).
17.40.050 Application fees.
   The council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees for permits,
amendments, and other matters pertaining to this Zoning Code. The schedule of
fees may be changed or modified only by resolution of the council. The city's
processing fees are cumulative. Processing shall not commence on any
application until all required fees have been paid.
17.40.060 Initial application review.
   All applications filed with the director in compliance with this Zoning Code
shall be initially processed as follows:
   A.   Completeness Review. The director shall review all applications for
completeness and accuracy before they are accepted as being complete.
   1.   Notification of Applicant. The applicant shall be informed, as required
by the Government Code, either that the application is complete and has been
accepted for processing, or that the application is incomplete and that
additional information shall be provided. All additional information needed
shall be specified in the letter providing notice of an incomplete application.
   2.   Appeal of Determination. Where the director has determined that an
application is incomplete, and the applicant believes that the application is
complete and/or that the information requested by the director is not required,
the applicant may appeal the determination in compliance with
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals).
   3.   Environmental Information. The director may require the applicant to
submit additional information needed for the environmental review of the
project in compliance with Section
17.40.070.
   4.   Expiration of Application. If the applicant does not provide sufficient
information to complete an application within six months after the first filing
with the director, the application shall be deemed withdrawn. A new
application, including fees, plans, exhibits and other materials that are
required to commence processing of any development project on the same
property, must then be filed in compliance with this Article before processing
will begin.
   B.   Referral of Application. At the discretion of the director, or where
otherwise required by this Zoning Code, State or Federal law, any application
filed in compliance with this Zoning Code may be referred to any public agency
that may be affected by or have an interest in the proposed land use activity.
17.40.070 Environmental assessment.
   After acceptance of a complete application, the project shall be reviewed as
required by the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), and city CEQA
Guidelines to determine whether the proposed project is exempt from the
requirements of CEQA, whether it is a project which requires review under CEQA
and if so, whether a negative declaration may be issued, or an environmental
impact report (EIR) must be required. These determinations and, where required,
the preparation of EIRs shall be in compliance with the city's CEQA Guidelines.
17.40.080 Staff report and recommendations.
   A.   Staff Evaluation. The director shall review all applications filed in
compliance with this chapter to determine whether they comply and are
consistent with the provisions of this Zoning Code, other applicable provisions
of the Municipal Code, and the general plan, and shall provide a recommendation
to the commission and/or council (as applicable) on whether the application
should be approved, approved subject to conditions, or disapproved.
   B.   Staff Report Preparation. A staff report shall be prepared by the
director that describes their conclusions about the proposed land use and any
development as to its compliance and consistency with the provisions of this
Zoning Code, other applicable provisions of the Municipal Code, applicable
specific plans, and the general plan. The staff report shall include
recommendations on the approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of
the application, based on the evaluation and consideration of information
provided by an initial study or environmental impact report.
   C.   Report Distribution. Staff reports shall be furnished to applicants at
the same time as they are provided to members of the commission and/or council
prior to a hearing on the application.
Chapter 17.42 PERMIT APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL
17.42.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides procedures for the final review, and approval or
disapproval of the land use permit applications established by this Zoning
Code. Procedures and standards for the review and approval of subdivision maps
are found in Title 16 of the Municipal Code (Subdivisions). Where applicable,
the procedures of this chapter are carried out after those described in
Chapter 17.40 (Applications--Filing and Processing), for each application.
17.42.020 Zoning clearance.
   A.   Purpose. Zoning clearance is the procedure used by the city to verify
that a proposed structure or land use complies with the permitted list of
activities allowed in the applicable zoning district, and the development
standards applicable to the type of use. Where Article II (Zoning Districts and
Allowable Land Uses) requires a zoning clearance as a prerequisite to
establishing a land use, the director shall evaluate the proposed use to
determine whether the clearance may be granted in compliance with this section.
   B.   Applicability. A zoning clearance shall be required at the time of
planning division review of any building, grading or other construction permit,
or other authorization required by this Zoning Code for the proposed use. Where
no other authorization is required, a request for zoning clearance shall be
filed with, and use the forms provided by the department.
   C.   Criteria for Clearance. The director may issue the zoning clearance
after determining that the request complies with all Zoning Code provisions
applicable to the proposed use.
   D.   Notice of Non-Appealable Development. A land use permit proposing a
development within the coastal zone that is not appealable to the Coastal
Commission is subject to the public notice requirements of Section
17.58.040 (Notice of Non-Appealable Development).
17.42.030 Site plan and architectural review.
   A.   Purpose. Site plan and architectural review is required to review
proposed site design including the location of structures, landscaping,
ingress/egress, parking and loading, grading, and architectural design, for
compliance with the standards in Article III (Site Planning and General
Development Standards) and the design guidelines established for each land use
category in Article II (Zoning Districts and Allowable Land Uses).
   B.   Applicability. Site plan and architectural review approval is required
for:
   1.   The construction of any new building for any use permitted in Article
II (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and Zone-Specific Standards);
   2.   Additions to existing buildings and changes to site planning in all
zoning districts; or
   3.   Architectural modifications to the exterior of nonresidential
structures including changes in exterior materials, the addition of, or changes
to awnings, etc.
   C.   Application Filing and Processing. An application for site plan and
architectural review shall be filed and processed in compliance with
Chapter 17.40 (Applications--Filing and Processing).
   D.   Notice of Non-Appealable Development. A land use permit proposing a
development within the coastal zone that is not appealable to the Coastal
Commission is subject to the public notice requirements of Section
17.58.040 (Notice of Non-Appealable Development).
   E.   Project Review, Notice and Hearing. When applications for site plan and
architectural review propose development in the RSL or RSM zoning districts,
public noticing or hearings are not required unless the project is within the
CA (Coastal Appeal) zoning district. Modifications to the exterior of
nonresidential structures, if no new floor area is included, may be reviewed by
staff. Public noticing may be required for such changes, at the discretion of
the director. The director will review and determine if the application is in
compliance with site planning standards and land uses allowed. Applications
proposed for new construction or additions in all other zoning districts are
subject to approval by the planning commission and a public hearing shall be
set, noticed, and held by the planning commission, in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings).
   F.   Findings, Decision, Conditions. Following the review by the director or
commission, as appropriate, the director or commission shall record the
decision and the findings upon which the decision is based. The director or the
commission may approve an application for site plan and architectural review
with or without conditions, if all of the following findings are made:
   1.   The proposed use is permitted within the subject zoning district and
complies with all of the applicable provisions of this Zoning Code;
   2.   The proposed use is consistent with the general plan and any applicable
specific plan;
   3.   The approval of the site plan and architectural review for the proposed
project is in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA);
and
   4.   The location, and operating characteristics of the proposed use are
compatible with the existing and anticipated future land uses in the vicinity.
   G.   Expiration. A project authorized through site plan and architectural
review shall be commenced within two years from the date of approval or the
permit shall become void, unless an extension is approved in compliance with
Chapter 17.44 (Permit Implementation, Time Limits, Extensions).
   H.   Performance Guarantees. The applicant/owner may be required to provide
adequate performance security in compliance with Section
17.44.040, to guarantee proper compliance with conditions of approval. (Ord.
03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.42.040 Temporary use permits.
   A.   Purpose. A temporary use permit allows short-term activities that might
not meet the normal development or use standards of the applicable zoning
district, but may be acceptable because of their temporary nature.
   B.   Permitted Temporary Uses. The following temporary uses may be permitted
subject to the issuance of a temporary use permit. Uses that do not fall within
the categories defined below shall instead comply with the use and development
restrictions and permit requirements that otherwise apply to the property, in
compliance with Article II (Zoning Districts and Allowable Land Uses).
   1.   Construction Yards. Off-site contractors' construction yards in
conjunction with an approved construction project.
   2.   Seasonal Sales Lots. Christmas tree sales lots or the sale of other
seasonal products (e.g., pumpkins, etc.), and temporary residence/security
trailers. A permit shall not be required when the sales are in conjunction with
an established commercial business holding a valid business license, provided
the activity does not consume more than fifteen percent of the total parking
spaces on the site and does not impair emergency vehicle access. Products sold
shall be limited to the primary seasonal product (Christmas trees, pumpkins,
etc.) which is the basis for the sales lot.
   3.   Special Events on Private Property. Carnivals, circuses, ethnic
celebrations, festivals, and other similar special events and temporary
parking, on private property, may be approved in commercial districts provided
that they do not continue for more than five consecutive days, and do not occur
more often than four times per year. Longer time periods or more frequent
events may be authorized through conditional use permit approval. These uses
shall also comply with any requirements of the fire, police, and public works
departments.
   4.   Temporary Offices and Work Trailers. A trailer, coach or mobile home as
a temporary office facility, or work site for employees of a business:
   a.   During construction or remodeling of a permanent commercial or
industrial structure when a valid building permit is in force; or
   b.   Upon demonstration by the applicant that this temporary facility is a
short-term necessity while a permanent facility is being obtained or
constructed.
   The permit may be granted for up to one year. An extension may be authorized
by the planning commission through conditional use permit approval.
   5.   Similar Temporary Uses. Similar temporary uses which, in the opinion of
the director, are compatible with the zoning district and surrounding land
uses.
   C.   Temporary Uses Regulated by Other Municipal Code Provisions. The
following temporary uses are subject to the referenced Municipal Code
provisions instead of the requirements of this section:
   1.   Art and Craft Fairs. Art and craft fairs are subject to the provisions
of
Chapter 5.05 of the Municipal Code.
   2.   Location Filming. Location filming is subject to the provisions of
Chapter 5.44 of the Municipal Code.
   D.   Development Standards. Standards for structure setbacks, heights, floor
areas, parking and landscaping areas and other structure and property
development standards that apply to the type of use or the zoning district of
the site shall apply to temporary uses.
   E.   Application. A temporary use permit application shall be filed with the
department. The application shall be accompanied by the following:
   1.   Illustrations. Sketches or drawings of sufficient size and clarity to
show without further explanation the following: size and location of the
property, location of the adjacent street, location and size of all structures
on the site, location of structures on adjacent lots, location and number of
parking spaces, and location of any temporary fences, signs, or structures to
be installed as part of the temporary use;
   2.   Statement of Operations. A letter describing the hours of operation,
days that the temporary use will be on the site, number of people staffing the
use during operation, anticipated number of people using the facility during
commercial operation, and other information about the operation of the use that
pertains to the impact of the use on the community or on adjacent uses; and
   3.   Letters from Abutting Property Owners. For uses proposed to last more
than thirty-five consecutive days per calendar year (where listed as allowable
uses in the applicable zoning district by Article II (Zoning Districts and
Allowable Land Uses) letters signed by the property owners of each lot abutting
the site on which the temporary use is proposed to be located. The letters
shall acknowledge the proposed use, and dates and times of operation, and state
the abutting property owner's agreement to the operation of the temporary use
as described. Applications for which the applicant is unable to obtain these
letters may be converted to a standard conditional use permit where the use is
allowed with conditional use permit approval by the applicable zoning district.
   F.   Action by the Director. A temporary use permit may be approved,
modified, conditioned, or disapproved by the director. At the discretion of the
director, a temporary use permit may be referred to the commission for a
hearing and decision.
   The review authority may approve or conditionally approve a temporary use
permit application, only if all the following findings are made:
   1.   That the establishment, maintenance or operation of the use will not,
under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health,
safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the neighborhood
of the proposed use; and
   2.   The use, as described and conditionally approved, will not be
detrimental or injurious to property and improvements in the neighborhood or to
the general welfare of the city.
   In making these determinations, the review authority shall take into
consideration the short time period of the proposed use.
   G.   Conditions of Approval. In approving an application for a temporary use
permit, the review authority may impose conditions deemed necessary to ensure
that the permit will be in compliance with the findings required by subsection
F.
   H.   Condition of Site Following Temporary Use. Each site occupied by a
temporary use shall be cleaned of debris, litter, or any other evidence of the
temporary use upon completion or removal of the use, and shall thereafter be
used in compliance with the provisions of this Zoning Code. A bond may be
required prior to initiation of the use to ensure cleanup after the use is
finished.
17.42.050 Conditional use permits and minor use permits.
   A.   Purpose. Conditional use permits and minor use permits are intended to
allow for activities and uses which may be desirable in the applicable zoning
district and compatible with adjacent land uses, but whose effect on the site
and surroundings cannot be determined prior to being proposed for a particular
location. The procedures of this Section provide for the review of the
location, design, configuration, and potential impacts of the proposed use, to
evaluate the compatibility of the proposed use with surrounding uses and the
suitability of the use to the site.
   B.   Applicability. A conditional use permit or minor use permit is required
to authorize proposed land uses and activities identified by Article II (Zoning
Districts and Allowable Land Uses) as being allowable in the applicable zoning
district subject to the approval of a conditional or minor use permit.
   C.   Application Filing and Processing. An application for a conditional use
permit or minor use permit shall be filed and processed in compliance with
Chapter 17.40 (Applications--Filing and Processing).
   D.   Notice of Non-Appealable Development. A land use permit proposing a
development within the coastal zone that is not appealable to the Coastal
Commission is subject to the public notice requirements of Section
17.58.040 (Notice of Non-Appealable Development).
   E.   Project Review, Notice and Hearing. Each conditional and minor use
permit application shall be analyzed by the director to ensure that the
application is consistent with the purpose and intent of this section. The
director shall conduct a public hearing on an application for a minor use
permit; the commission shall conduct a public hearing on an application for a
conditional use permit. Notice of the public hearing shall be provided, and the
hearing shall be conducted in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings).
   F.   Referral of Minor Use Permit. At the discretion of the director, any
minor use permit application may be referred to the planning commission for a
hearing in compliance with subsection C above, and a decision in compliance
with subsection E below.
   G.   Decision and Findings. Following a public hearing, the director may
approve or disapprove an application for a minor use permit and the commission
may approve or disapprove an application for a conditional use permit. The
review authority shall record the decision and the findings upon which the
decision is based. The review authority may approve a conditional use permit or
a minor use permit only if all of the following findings are first made:
   1.   The proposed use is allowed with a conditional use permit or minor use
permit within the subject zoning district and complies with all applicable
provisions of this Zoning Code;
   2.   The proposed use is consistent with the general plan and any specific
plan;
   3.   The approval of the conditional or minor use permit for the proposed
use is in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA);
   4.   The location, size, design, and operating characteristics of the
proposed use are compatible with the existing and future land uses in the
vicinity; and
   5.   The proposed use will not impair the architectural integrity and
character of the zoning district in which it is to be located.
   H.   Conditions of Approval. In approving a conditional or minor use permit,
the review authority may adopt any conditions of approval deemed necessary to
achieve consistency with the general plan and any applicable specific plan,
compliance with the provisions and purposes of this Zoning Code, and the
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare.
   I.   Performance Guarantee. The review authority may require the applicant/
owner to provide adequate performance security in compliance with Section
17.44.040, to guarantee proper compliance with conditions of approval.
   J.   Expiration. A conditional or minor use permit shall be exercised within
two years from the date of approval or the permit shall become void, unless an
extension is approved in compliance with
Chapter 17.44 (Permit Implementation, Time Limits, Extensions).
   L.   Revocation. A conditional or minor use permit may be revoked in
compliance with Section
17.60.090 (Permit Revocation or Modification).
17.42.060 Planned development permit.
   A.   Purpose. The planned development permit is intended to provide a
process for allowing greater flexibility in site planning and design than
afforded by the general development standards of this Zoning Code, to encourage
more innovative and desirable projects, workforce, affordable and senior
housing, development of non-conforming lots, and efficient use of land than may
be possible through strict application of conventional zoning regulations.
   B.   Applicability. Planned development permits may be authorized for any
outstanding development project in any zoning district. While subject to the
city's health and safety standards specified in the International Building
code, flexibility of the application of following Zoning Code development
standards may be considered up to the limits identified in this section:
   1.   Structure location and setbacks, yard areas, and open spaces in the
RSL, RSM and RR zoning districts subject to the indicated limits:
   a.   Front setback may be reduced to ten percent of the lot depth but no
less than five feet.
   b.   Side setback may be reduced to seven percent of the lot width but no
less than three feet.
   c.   Street side setback shall be a minimum of seven feet.
   d.   Rear setback may be reduced to seven percent of the lot depth.
   2.   Building height may exceed twenty percent of the maximum specified in
General Plan Policy D-2a for fifty percent of the building footprint. This
exception, inclusive of exceptions to building heights specified in Section
17.20.040, can only be considered for development in the Downtown Commercial
Core Planning area and General Plan/Local Coastal Plan areas designated for
Commercial, Resort Commercial, Public/Semi Public and Industrial land uses.
   3.   Parking and loading requirements, ingress and egress location; parking
requirements may be reduced up to fifty percent from those specified in Section
17.108.020. Loading requirements, ingress, and egress may be determined by the
Planning Commission.
   4.   Fences, walls and screening noted in Section
17.24.060 (A-D) may be exceeded by up to fifty percent.
   5.   Landscaping requirements may be no less than fifteen percent of a total
lot area in residential zones and seven percent of a lot area in commercial or
other zoning districts.
   6.   Lot coverage not to exceed:
   a.   RSL, RSM and RR zoning districts - Seventy-five percent.
   b.   CRS, CD and CG zoning districts - Ninety percent.
   c.   CS zoning district - Fifty percent.
   7.   Total building area/floor area ratio as follows:
   a.   RSL zoning district - Eighty-six percent of the first two thousand
seven hundred square feet of lot area plus seventy percent of any lot area in
excess of two thousand seven hundred square feet.
   b.   RSM zoning district - Ninety percent for multi-family housing, single-
family houses shall be the same as the RSL zoning district.
   c.   RR zoning districts - One hundred thirty-five percent except that
single family houses shall be the same as the RSL zoning district.
   d.   CRS, CD and CG zoning districts - Two hundred twenty percent.
   e.   C-M zoning district - Seventy percent.
   8.   Lot size:
   a.   RSL and RSM zoning districts - No less than three thousand five hundred
square feet.
   b.   RR zoning district - No less than ten thousand square feet.
   c.   C-S zoning district - No less than seven thousand square feet.
   9.   Lot width:
   a.   RSL, RSM and RR zoning districts - No less than forty feet.
   b.   CM - No less than fifty feet.
   C.   Outstanding Development Qualifications. The qualifications for
outstanding development will include one of the following for each request for
flexibility of any single development standard:
   1.   For non-residential development:
   a.   Additional and improvement of open space exceeding fifteen percent of
the required Zoning Code minimum.
   b.   A public recreational amenity.
   c.   An enhanced pedestrian, bicycle, and/or vehicle connectivity element
exceeding the minimum established by the Municipal Code.
   d.   On-site public art subject to city approval as a part of the planned
development permitting process.
   e.   Solar panel installation.
   f.   Building construction that meets or exceeds provisions outlined in
Title 24: Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and Nonresidential
Buildings.
   g.   Workforce, affordable and senior housing residential dwelling units as
a part of a mixed use project.
   h.   Other community benefits.
   2.   For residential development:
   a.   Addition of an accessory dwelling unit.
   b.   Solar panel installation.
   c.   Green build project components.
   d.   Construction of workforce, affordable or senior housing.
   D.   Project review. Each planned development permit application shall be
analyzed by the Director to determine the implications of the proposed changes
of site design standard, and to ensure that the application will result in an
exemplary project characterized by more efficient and environmentally sensitive
use and development of land than would otherwise be achieved utilizing standard
development requirements. The application shall also be reviewed to verify that
the project is otherwise consistent with all other applicable provisions of
this Zoning Code. The Director shall prepare a report and recommendation on the
proposal to the Planning Commission.
   E.   Notice and hearings. The Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings). The Planning Commission may approve or
disapprove the planned development permit in compliance with this section.
   F.   Findings, decision, conditions. The Planning Commission shall identity
findings upon which the decision to approve or deny the planned unit
development permit. The Planning Commission may approve a planned development
permit application with or without conditions, if all of the following findings
are made:
   1.   The proposed use is a permitted or conditional use within the
applicable zoning district and complies with all applicable provisions of this
Zoning Code;
   2.   The proposed use is consistent with the general plan/local coastal plan
and any applicable specific plan;
   3.   The approval of the planned development permit for the proposed use is
in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA); and
   4.   The location and operating characteristics of the proposed use are
compatible with the existing and anticipated future land uses in the vicinity.
   5.   The project's design and configuration do not negatively impact coastal
resources.
   6.   The Planning Commission identifies a nexus between the outstanding
development quality and the requirement for the flexibility being sought.
   7.   The development standards as specified for the project have been varied
to the minimum extent necessary in order to facilitate the outstanding quality
of the development project.
   G.   Expiration. A planned development permit shall be exercised within two
years from the date of approval or the permit shall become void, unless an
extension is approved consistent with
Chapter 17.44 (Permit Implementation, Time Limits, Extensions).
(Ord. O-2018-011 § 7, 2018: Ord. O-2014-006 § 2 (part), 2014: Ord. O-2014-004 §
2 (part), 2014)
17.42.070 Variances.
   A.   Purpose. The provisions of this section allow for variances from the
development standards of this Zoning Code only when, because of special
circumstances applicable to the property, including size, shape, topography,
location or surroundings, the strict application of this Zoning Code denies the
property owner privileges enjoyed by other property owners in the vicinity and
under identical zoning districts.
   B.   Applicability. The commission may grant a Variance from the
requirements of this Zoning Code governing only the following development
standards:
   1.   Dimensional standards (i.e., distance between structures, parcel area,
building coverage, landscape and paving requirements, parcel dimensions,
setbacks, and structure heights);
   2.   Sign regulations (other than prohibited signs); and
   3.   Number and dimensions of parking areas, loading spaces, landscaping or
lighting requirements, except as otherwise provided in this Zoning Code.
   The power to grant variances does not include allowed land uses, or
residential density regulations.
   C.   Application Requirements. An application for a variance shall be filed
in compliance with Section
17.40.040 (Application Preparation and Filing). It is the responsibility of the
applicant to provide evidence in support of the findings required by subsection
E (Findings).
   D.   Project Review, Notice and Hearing. Each variance application shall be
reviewed by the director to ensure that the application is consistent with the
purpose and intent of this section. The director provide the commission with a
recommendation whether the application should be approved, approved subject to
conditions, or disapproved. The commission shall hold a public hearing in
compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings), and may approve or disapprove the variance in
compliance with this section.
   E.   Findings, Decision. Following a public hearing, the commission may
approve, approve subject to conditions, or disapprove the variance, and shall
record the decision in writing with the findings upon which the decision is
based, in compliance with State law (Government Code Section 65906). The
commission may approve an application, with or without conditions, only if the
commission first finds that:
   1.   There are special circumstances applicable to the property (i.e., size,
shape, topography, location or surroundings), such that the strict application
of the requirements of this Zoning Code deprives the property owner of
privileges enjoyed by other property owners in the vicinity and within the same
zoning district;
   2.   Granting the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of substantial property rights possessed by other property owners in the same
vicinity and zoning district and denied to the property owner for which the
variance is sought;
   3.   The adjustment authorized by the variance will not constitute a grant
of special privileges inconsistent with the limitations on other properties in
the vicinity and in the same zoning district;
   4.   Granting the variance will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare, or injurious to the property or improvements in the
vicinity and in the same zoning district; and
   5.   The adjustment authorized by the variance is consistent with the
general plan and any applicable specific plan.
   F.   Conditions. Any variance granted shall be subject to conditions that
will ensure that the variance does not grant special privilege(s) inconsistent
with the limitations upon other properties in the vicinity and same zoning
district.
   G.   Expiration. A variance shall be exercised within two years from the
date of approval, or the variance shall become void, unless an extension is
approved by the director, in compliance with
Chapter 17.44 (Permit Implementation, Time Limits, Extensions).
Chapter 17.44 PERMIT IMPLEMENTATION, TIME LIMITS, EXTENSIONS
17.44.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides requirements for the implementation or "exercising" of
the permits required by this Zoning Code, including time limits, and procedures
for extensions of time.
17.44.020 Effective date of permits.
   A.   Non-Appealable Development. The approval of a land use permit that is
not for a project located within the CA overlay district shall become effective
on the eleventh day following the date of application approval by the
appropriate review authority, where no appeal of the review authority's action
has been filed in compliance with
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals).
   B.   Appealable Development. The approval of a land use permit for a project
located within the CA overlay district shall become effective on the eleventh
day after the receipt by the Central Coast office of the California Coastal
Commission of the notice of final action required by following Section
17.44.030, where no appeal of the review authority's action has been filed by
two Coastal Commissioners in compliance with the Coastal Act, and where no
local appeal has been filed within ten days of the date of the decision by the
review authority in compliance with
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals).
17.44.030 Final city action on land use permits.
   The requirements of this section apply after the review authority has acted
on a land use permit application within the Coastal Zone after a public
hearing.
   A.   Notice of Final City Action. Within five calendar days of the review
authority decision on a land use permit and meeting the requirements of
subsection B, following, the city shall notify the following of its action by
first class mail:
   1.   The Coastal Commission; and
   2.   Any persons who specifically requested notice of the action by
submitting a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the city (or, where required,
who paid the fee established by the city fee resolution to receive the notice).
   The notice shall include any conditions of approval and written findings and
the procedures for appeal of the city decision to the Coastal Commission.
   B.   Notice of Failure to Act.
   1.   Notification by Applicant. If the city has failed to act on an
application within the time limits set forth in Government Code Sections 65950-
65957.1, thereby approving the development by operation of law, the person
claiming a right to proceed in compliance with Government Code Sections 65950-
65957.1 shall notify, in writing, the city and the Coastal Commission of his or
her claim that the development has been approved by operation of law. The
notice shall specify the application which is claimed to be approved.
   2.   Notification by City. When the city determines that the time limits
established by Government Code Sections 65950-65937.1 have expired, the city
shall, within seven calendar days of the determination, notify any person
entitled to receive notice in compliance with subsection (B)(1), above, that
the application has been approved by operation of law in compliance with
Government Code Sections 65950-65957.1, and the application may be appealed to
the Coastal Commission in compliance with California Code of Regulations
Sections 13110 et seq. This section shall apply equally to a city determination
that the project has been approved by operation of law, and to a judicial
determination that the project has been approved by operation of law.
   C.   Finality of City Action. A city decision on a land use permit
application for a development shall not be deemed final until:
   1.   The city decision on the application has been made and all required
findings have been adopted, including specific factual findings supporting the
legal conclusions that the proposed development is or is not in conformity with
the certified local coastal program and, where applicable, with the public
access and recreation policies of Chapter 3 of the Coastal Act; and
   2.   When all city rights of appeal have been exhausted in compliance with
Section
17.54.050(B) (Exhaustion of City Appeals Required).
17.44.040 Performance guarantees.
   A permit applicant may be required by conditions of approval or by action of
the director to provide adequate security to guarantee the faithful performance
and proper completion of any approved work, and/or compliance with conditions
of approval imposed by the review authority. The provisions of this Section
apply to performance guarantees for projects authorized by any of the land use
permits covered by this Article.
   A.   Form and Amount of Security. The required security shall be in a form
approved by the city manager and the director. The amount of security shall be
as determined by the director to be necessary to ensure proper completion of
the work and/or compliance with conditions of approval.
   B.   Security for Maintenance. In addition to any improvement security
required to guarantee proper completion of work, the director may require
security for maintenance of the work, in an amount determined by the director
to be sufficient to ensure the proper maintenance and functioning of
improvements.
   C.   Duration of Security. Required improvement security shall remain in
effect until final inspections have been made and all work has been accepted by
the director, or until any warranty period required by the director has
elapsed. Maintenance security shall remain in effect for one year after the
date of final inspection.
   D.   Release or Forfeit of Security. Upon satisfactory completion of work
and the approval of a final inspection (or after the end of the required time
for maintenance security), the improvement and/or maintenance deposits or bonds
shall be released. However, upon failure to complete the work, failure to
comply with all of the terms of any applicable permit, or failure of the
completed improvements to function properly, the city may do the required work
or cause it to be done, and collect from the permittee or surety all the costs
incurred by the city, including the costs of the work, and all administrative
and inspection costs. Any unused portion of the security shall be refunded to
the funding source after deduction of the cost of the work by the city.
17.44.050 Time limits and extensions.
   A.   Time Limits. Unless conditions of approval or other provisions of this
Zoning Code establish a different time limit, or a provision of state law
provides for additional time limits, any permit or approval not exercised
within two years of approval shall expire and become void. The permit shall not
be deemed "exercised" until the permittee has actually obtained a building
permit and commenced construction, or has actually commenced the permitted use
on the subject property in compliance with the conditions of approval.
   B.   Extensions of Time. Upon request by the applicant, the director may
extend the time for an approved permit to be exercised for any permit approved
by the director, and the commission may grant an extension for any permit
approved by the commission.
   1.   The applicant shall file a written request for an extension of time
with the department at least ten days before the expiration of the permit,
together with the filing fee required by the city fee resolution.
   2.   The review authority shall then determine whether the permittee has
attempted to comply with the conditions of the permit. The burden of proof is
on the permittee to establish with substantial evidence that the permit should
not expire.
   3.   If the review authority determines that the permittee has proceeded in
good faith and has exercised due diligence in complying with the conditions in
a timely manner, the review authority may renew the permit for up to an
additional two years from the date of the decision.
   C.   Hearing on Expiration. At the request of the applicant, the director
may hold a hearing on any proposed expiration of a permit, in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings).
   D.   An automatic time extension for any land use permit (as identified in
Chapter 17.121) will be granted for the same period of time a land use permit
is extended by the state legislature or any state agency, without the
requirement for a public hearing, if the state legislature or any state agency
extends any land use permit beyond the time limits specified tn (1) and (2)
above.
   E. Coastal permits that must be secured ancillary to any of the land use
permits shall be automatically extended as noted in D. above.
(Ord. O-2009-005, § 1, passed 2009)
17.44.060 Changes to an approved project.
   Development or a new land use authorized through a permit granted in
compliance with this Zoning Code shall be established only as approved by the
review authority and subject to any conditions of approval, except where
changes to the project are approved in compliance with this section.
   A.   An applicant shall request desired changes in writing, and shall also
furnish appropriate supporting materials and an explanation of the reasons for
the request. Changes may be requested either before or after construction or
establishment and operation of the approved use.
   B.   The director may approve one request for changes to an approved site
plan, architecture, or the nature of the approved use if the changes:
   1.   Are consistent with all applicable provisions of this Zoning Code;
   2.   Do not involve a feature of the project that was specifically addressed
in, or was a basis for findings in a negative declaration or environmental
impact report for the project;
   3.   Do not involve a feature of the project that was specifically addressed
in, or was a basis for conditions of approval for the project or that was a
specific consideration by the review authority in the approval of the permit;
   4.   Do not expand the approved floor area or any outdoor activity area by
ten percent or more over the life of the project; and
   C.   Changes to the project involving features described in subsections (B)
(2) and (B)(3) above, or changes other than those described in subsection B,
shall only be approved by the review authority through a new permit application
processed in compliance with this Zoning Code.
17.44.070 Permits to run with the land.
   A land use permit granted in compliance with
Chapter 17.42 (Permit Approval or Disapproval) shall continue to be valid upon
a change of ownership of the site, business, service, use or structure that was
the subject of the permit application.
Chapter 17.46 SPECIFIC PLANS
17.46.010 Purpose of chapter.
   When required by the general plan, this Zoning Code, or by State law to
systematically implement the general plan for any part of the city, a specific
plan shall be prepared, processed, approved or disapproved, and implemented in
compliance with this chapter.
17.46.020 Pre-application review.
   Before preparing a draft specific plan in compliance with this chapter, the
applicant shall request a pre-application review. The director shall refer all
materials submitted with a request for pre-application review to affected city
departments. The reviewing departments will inform the applicant of city
requirements as they apply to the proposed development project, provide a
preliminary list of issues that will likely be of concern during formal
application review, suggest possible alternatives or modifications to the
project, and identify any technical studies that may be necessary for the
environmental review process when a formal application is filed.
17.46.030 Specific plan preparation and content.
   A draft specific plan shall include the following detailed information in
the form of text and diagrams, organized according to an outline furnished by
the department:
   A.   Proposed Land Uses. The distribution, location and extent of land uses
proposed within the area covered by the plan, including open space areas;
   B.   Infrastructure. The proposed distribution, location, extent and
intensity of major components of public and private transportation, sewage,
water, drainage, solid waste disposal, energy, and other essential facilities
to be located within the specific plan area and needed to support the proposed
land uses;
   C.   Land Use and Development Standards. Standards and criteria by which
development will proceed, and standards for the conservation, development and
utilization of natural resources, where applicable;
   D.   Implementation Measures. A program of implementation measures,
including regulations, programs, public works projects, and financing measures
necessary to carry out the proposed land uses, infrastructure, and development
and conservation standards and criteria;
   E.   Relationship to General Plan. A statement of the relationship of the
specific plan to the general plan;
   F.   Additional Information. The specific plan shall contain any additional
information determined to be necessary by the director because of the
characteristics of the area to be covered by the plan, applicable policies of
the general plan, or any other issue determined by the director to be
significant.
17.46.040 Specific plan filing and processing.
   A draft specific plan shall be filed with the department, and shall be
accompanied by the fee required by the city fee resolution. The draft plan
shall be processed in the same manner as required for general plans by
Government Code Sections 65350 et seq., and as follows:
   A.   Director Evaluation. After the filing of a draft specific plan, the
director shall review the draft specific plan to determine whether it conforms
with the provisions of this section. If the draft plan is not in compliance, it
shall be returned to the applicant with a written specification as to why it
does not comply, and with suggested revisions to ensure compliance. When a
draft plan is returned by the applicant to the department and the director
determines it is complete and in compliance with this section, the plan shall
be deemed to be accepted for processing.
   B.   Environmental Review. The draft specific plan shall be subject to
environmental review as specified in the city's CEQA Guidelines.
   C.   Staff Report. A staff report shall be prepared in compliance with
Section
17.40.080 (Staff Report and Recommendations) which shall include detailed
recommendations for changes to the text and diagrams of the specific plan to
make it acceptable for adoption.
   D.   Public Hearings. A draft specific plan shall be subject to public
hearings before both the commission and council before its adoption, as
follows:
   1.   Commission. The director shall schedule a public hearing on the
proposed specific plan after completion of a staff report and any required
environmental documents, but not before the expiration of any public review
periods for environmental documents required by CEQA. The hearing shall receive
public notice and be conducted in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings). After the hearing, the commission shall
forward a written recommendation to the council.
   2.   Council. After receipt of the commission recommendation, a public
hearing on the specific plan shall be scheduled by the council. The hearing
shall be noticed and conducted in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings). After the hearing, the council may adopt the
specific plan, may disapprove the plan, or may adopt the plan with changes,
provided that any substantial changes to the plan that were not considered by
the commission shall be referred to the commission for its recommendation.
Failure of the commission to report within forty-five days after the referral,
or any longer period set by the council, shall be deemed a recommendation for
the approval of the changes.
17.46.050 Adoption of specific plan.
   The adoption of a specific plan is entirely at the discretion of the
council. The council shall adopt a specific plan only if it first determines
that the plan:
   A.   Is consistent with the general plan; and
   B.   Will not have a significant effect on the environment, or is subject to
the overriding findings specified in the city's CEQA Guidelines.
   The specific plan shall be adopted by ordinance, or by resolution of the
council.
17.46.060 Implementation, amendments.
   A.   Development within Specific Plan Area. After the adoption of a specific
plan, no public works project may be approved, no tentative map or parcel map
for which a tentative map is required may be approved, and no amendment to this
Zoning Code may be adopted within an area covered by a specific plan unless it
is consistent with the specific plan. The council may impose a specific plan
fee surcharge on development permits within the specific plan area, in
compliance with Government Code Section 65456.
   B.   Amendments. An adopted specific plan may be amended through the same
procedure specified by this chapter for the adoption of a specific plan.
Chapter 17.48 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
17.48.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter outlines the procedures and requirements for the review and
approval of development agreements. The provisions of this chapter are fully
consistent with the provisions of State law governing development agreements
(Article 2.5 of Section 4 of Division 1 of Title 7, commencing with Section
65864 of the California Government Code).
17.48.020 Application.
   A.   Filing. Any owner of real property may request and apply through the
director to enter into a development agreement provided the following:
   1.   The status of the applicant as the owner or long-term lessee of the
property is established to the satisfaction of the director; and
   2.   The application is made on forms approved, and contains all information
required, by the director.
   B.   Processing. The director is hereby empowered to receive, review,
process and prepare, together with recommendations for commission and council
consideration, all applications for development agreements.
   C.   Fees. Processing fees, shall be collected for any application for a
development agreement made in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
17.48.030 Development agreement hearings.
   A.   Commission Review. Upon finding the application for a development
agreement complete, the director shall set the application and draft agreement,
together with staff recommendations, for a public hearing before the commission
in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings). Following conclusion of the public hearing,
the commission shall make a written recommendation to the council.
   B.   Council Consideration. Upon receipt of the commission's recommendation,
the city clerk shall set the application, draft agreement, and written report
for public hearing before the council in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings). Following conclusion of the public hearing,
the council shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the application
and draft agreement.
   C.   Council Action. Should the council approve or conditionally approve the
application and draft agreement, it shall as a part of its action direct the
preparation of a final development Agreement embodying the terms and conditions
of the draft as approved or conditionally approved, and an ordinance
authorizing execution of the development agreement by the city manager.
   D.   Ordinance Content. The ordinance shall contain findings that the
development agreement is consistent with this chapter, the general plan, and
any applicable specific plans.
17.48.040 Content of development agreement.
   A.   Mandatory Contents. All development Agreements shall contain the
following provisions:
   1.   Duration of the agreement;
   2.   Permitted uses for the subject property;
   3.   Density or intensity of the permitted uses;
   4.   Approved site plans, elevations, floor plans, and sections;
   5.   Provisions, if any, for reservation or dedication of land for public
purposes; and
   6.   Any other provisions required by State law.
   B.   Permissive Contents. A development agreement may include the following:
   1.   Conditions, terms, restrictions, and requirements for subsequent
discretionary actions, provided that these provisions shall not prevent
development of the land for the uses and to the density/intensity of
development specified in the agreement;
   2.   Provisions which require that construction shall be commenced within a
specified time and that the project or any single phase, be completed within a
specified time;
   3.   Terms and conditions relating to applicant financing of necessary
public improvements and facilities, including, but not limited to, applicant
participation in benefit assessment proceedings; and
   4.   Any other terms, conditions and requirements as the council may deem
necessary and proper, including, but not limited to, a requirement for
ensuring, to the satisfaction of the city, performance of all provisions of the
agreement in a timely fashion by the applicant/contracting party.
17.48.050 Execution and recordation.
   A.   Effective Date. The city shall execute development agreements on or
after the effective date of the ordinance approving the agreement.
   B.   Recordation. A development agreement shall be recorded in the office of
the San Luis Obispo County Recorder no later than ten days after it is
executed.
17.48.060 Periodic review.
   A.   Review Required. Every development agreement approved and executed in
compliance with this section shall be subject to periodic city review, during
the full term of the agreement. Appropriate fees to cover the city's costs to
conduct the periodic reviews shall be collected from the applicant in
compliance with Section
17.40.050 (Application Fees).
   B.   Purpose of Review. The purpose of the periodic review shall be to
determine whether the applicant or its successor-in-interest has complied in
good faith with the terms of the development agreement. The burden of proof
shall be on the applicant or its successor to demonstrate compliance to the
full satisfaction of, and in a manner prescribed by, the city.
   C.   Action Based on Non-Compliance. If, as a result of periodic review the
council finds and determines, on the basis of substantial evidence, that the
applicant or its successor-in-interest has not complied in good faith with the
terms or conditions of the agreement, the council may order, after a noticed
public hearing, that the agreement be terminated or modified.
17.48.070 Effect of development agreement.
   A.   Applicable Regulations. Unless otherwise provided by the development
agreement itself, the rules, regulations and official policies governing
permitted uses of the land, density, and design, improvement and construction
standards and specifications, applicable to development of the property subject
to a development agreement, are the rules, regulations, and official policies
in force at the time of execution of the agreement.
   B.   Additional Requirements. A development agreement does not prevent the
city, in subsequent actions, from applying new rules, regulations and policies
that do not conflict with those applicable to the property, nor does a
development agreement prevent the city from conditionally approving or
disapproving any subsequent development project application on the basis of
existing or new rules, regulations and policies.
17.48.080 Amendments or extensions to development agreements.
   A.   Changes to Approved Development. If any development agreement is
amended during its term, any change in the overall intensity of development or
revisions to approved land uses shall be consistent with the provisions of the
general plan. In any case where State law requires a finding of consistency
with the general plan in order to approve an amendment to a development
agreement, the provisions of the amendment shall be made consistent with the
general plan.
   B.   Extension of Agreement. If the term of a development agreement is
extended, any development that occurs after the original expiration date shall
be consistent with the provisions of the general plan as of the adoption date
of the amended development agreement.
Article V ZONING CODE ADMINISTRATION
Chapter 17.50 ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY
17.50.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter describes the authority and responsibilities of city staff and
official bodies in the administration of this Zoning Code, in addition to the
council.
17.50.020 Planning agency defined.
   The functions of a planning agency shall be performed by the Pismo Beach
city council, planning commission, and public services department, in
compliance with State law (Government Code Section 65100.)
17.50.030 Director of public services.
   A.   Appointment. The director of public services shall be appointed by the
council.
   B.   Duties and Authority. The director shall:
   1.   Have the responsibility to perform all of the functions designated by
State law (Government Code Section 65103--Planning Agency Functions);
   2.   Have the responsibility and authority to grant applications for all
administrative permits and approvals issued by the department;
   3.   Perform other responsibilities assigned by the council; and
   4.   Perform the duties and functions prescribed in this Zoning Code,
including the review of development projects, in compliance with State law
(Government Code Section 65901 et seq.), Section
17.40.020 (Authority for Land Use and Zoning Decisions), Table IV-1 (Review
Authority), the California Coastal Act, and the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA).
17.50.040 Planning commission.
   A.   Establishment. The Pismo Beach planning commission is established by
Chapter 2.20 (Planning Commission) of the Municipal Code, which identifies the
membership, terms of office, removal, and rules of order.
   B.   Duties and Authority. The commission shall perform the duties and
functions prescribed in this Zoning Code, including:
   1.   The review of and determination on applications for development
projects filed with the department; and
   2.   The recommendation, to the council for final determinations, on
development agreements, general plan amendments, specific plans, Zoning Code
amendments, zoning map amendments, environmental documents, and other
applicable policy or ordinance matters related to the city's planning process.
   The above listed duties and functions shall be performed in compliance with
Section
17.40.020 (Authority for Land Use and Zoning Decisions), Table 4-1 (Review
Authority), the California Coastal Act, and the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA).
Chapter 17.52 NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND PARCELS
17.52.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter establishes uniform provisions for the regulation of
nonconforming land uses, structures, and parcels. Within the zoning districts
established by this Zoning Code, there exist land uses, structures, and parcels
that were lawful before the adoption, or amendment of this Zoning Code, but
which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted differently under the terms
of this Zoning Code or future amendments. It is the intent of this Zoning Code
to discourage the long-term continuance of these nonconformities, but to permit
them to exist under limited conditions.
17.52.020 Restrictions on nonconforming uses and structures.
   Nonconformities may be continued subject to the following provisions, except
as otherwise provided by 17.52.030 (Loss of Nonconforming Status).
   A.   Nonconforming Uses of Land. A nonconforming use of land, or within a
structure, may be continued, transferred, or sold, provided that:
   1.   The use shall not be enlarged, increased, or extended to occupy a
greater floor area or portion of the site than it lawfully occupied before
becoming a nonconforming use, except as otherwise provided by subsection C,
below; and
   2.   Additional uses on the site shall not be allowed unless the
nonconforming use is first discontinued, and any replacement use complies with
all applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
   B.   Nonconforming Structures. A nonconforming structure may continue to be
used as follows.
   1.   Changes to Structure. The enlargement, extension, reconstruction, or
structural alteration of a nonconforming structure may be allowed with
conditional use permit approval if:
   a.   The additions or improvements conform to all other applicable
provisions of this Zoning Code;
   b.   The exterior limits of new construction do not exceed the applicable
height limit or encroach any further into the setbacks than the comparable
portions of the existing structure;
   c.   Changes involving the replacement/reconstruction do not include the
replacement of more than fifty percent of the original floor area, or more than
fifty percent of the total length of all exterior walls of the original
structure; and
   d.   The enlargement of the structure will not accommodate the expansion or
enlargement of a nonconforming use of land.
   2.   Maintenance and Repair. A nonconforming structure may undergo normal
maintenance and repairs, provided no structural alterations are made
(exception: see subsection (B)(3), following), and the work does not exceed
fifty percent of the appraised value of the structure determined by a qualified
appraiser in any one year period, unless the commission allows more extensive
work through conditional use permit approval after finding that the additional
work will not prolong the duration of the nonconforming use.
   3.   Seismic Retrofitting/Building Code Compliance. Repairs or alterations
otherwise required by law shall be allowed in the following circumstances:
   a.   Unreinforced Masonry Structures. Reconstruction required to reinforce
unreinforced masonry structures shall be permitted without cost limitations,
provided the retrofitting is limited exclusively to compliance with earthquake
safety standards; and
   b.   Building Code Requirements. Reconstruction required to comply with
building code requirements shall be allowed without cost limitations, provided
the retrofitting/code compliance is limited exclusively to compliance with
earthquake safety standards, as identified in subsection (B)(3)(a), above and
other applicable building code requirements, including State law (e.g., Title
24, California Code of Regulations, etc.).
   C.   Nonconforming Use of a Conforming Structure. The nonconforming use of a
structure that otherwise conforms with all applicable provisions of this Zoning
Code may be continued, transferred, and sold, as follows:
   1.   Expansion of Use. The nonconforming use of a portion of a structure may
be extended throughout the structure with conditional use permit approval.
   2.   Substitution of Use. The nonconforming use of a conforming structure
may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or less intensive/more
restricted nature, with conditional use permit approval. However, the
replacement use shall serve as the "new bench mark" in terms of establishing
the acceptable level of noncompliance.
   D.   Destroyed Structures. A nonconforming structure that has been verified
by the director to have been involuntarily damaged or destroyed by fire or
calamity may be reconstructed and reused only as follows.
   1.   Nonresidential Structures. A nonconforming structure that has been
damaged or destroyed to the extent of less than fifty percent of its appraised
value as determined by a qualified appraiser, may be reconstructed and reused
provided that the reconstruction and reuse:
   a.   Is in compliance with the applicable provisions of the zoning district
in which it is located;
   b.   Shall occur within one year after the date of the damage/destruction;
and
   c.   Has no greater floor area than the one damaged/destroyed.
   A nonconforming structure that is damaged or destroyed to fifty percent or
more of its appraised value shall only be reconstructed in compliance with all
applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
   2.   Multi-Family Structures. A nonconforming multi-family structure may be
reconstructed and reused after damage or destruction, up to its predamage size
and number of dwelling units, in compliance with Government Code Section
65852.25.
   3.   Single-Family Dwellings. A single-family dwelling may be rebuilt on its
original foundation, to its original footprint, by only the owner-occupant at
the time of destruction, within a period of one year from the time of
destruction, regardless of the extent/percentage of destruction.
   4.   Construction Code Compliance Required. All reconstruction after damage
or destruction shall comply with current city building, electrical, mechanical,
and plumbing codes, and all other applicable construction regulations.
17.52.030 Loss of nonconforming use status.
   If a nonconforming use of land or a nonconforming use of a conforming
structure is discontinued for a continuous period of one year, it shall be
presumed that the use has been abandoned. Without further action by the city,
further use of the site or structure shall comply with all the regulations of
the applicable zoning district and all other applicable provisions of this
Zoning Code.
17.52.040 Nonconforming signs.
   Requirements for nonconforming signs are provided by Section 17.36.120
(Nonconforming Signs).
17.52.050 Nonconforming parcels.
   A.   Determination of Nonconforming Status. A nonconforming parcel of record
that was created in compliance with the Map Act but does not comply with the
access, area, or width requirements of this Zoning Code for the zoning district
in which it is located, shall be considered to be a legal building site if it
meets one of the criteria specified by this section. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to produce sufficient evidence to establish the
applicability of one or more of the following.
   1.   Approved Subdivision. The parcel was created through a subdivision
approved by the city or the County of San Luis Obispo.
   2.   Individual Parcel Legally Created by Deed. The parcel is under one
ownership and of record, and was created at a time when the Map Act allowed the
creation of a parcel by a recorded deed, before the effective date of the
zoning amendment that made the parcel nonconforming.
   3.   Lot Line Adjustment. The parcel resulted from a lot line adjustment.
   4.   Partial Government Acquisition. The parcel was created in conformity
with the provisions of this Zoning Code, but was made nonconforming when a
portion of the parcel was acquired by a governmental entity so that the parcel
size was decreased not more than twenty percent and the yard facing any road
was decreased not more than fifty percent.
   B.   Limitations on Use of Nonconforming Parcels. Nonconforming parcels
shall be developed and used only as follows.
   1.   Site Plan and Architectural Review Required. Site plan and
architectural review (Section
17.42.030) shall be required for any development proposed on nonconforming
parcels.
   2.   Use of Contiguous Parcels. Until such time as contiguous nonconforming
parcels are merged, no structure shall be constructed on any nonconforming
contiguously owned, residentially-zoned parcels that are less than thirty feet
wide, or less than five thousand square feet in area, or on slopes more than
twenty percent, if the current owner(s) acquired or were transferred the
parcels after October 12, 1976.
   3.   Further Subdivision Prohibited. Where structures have been erected on a
nonconforming parcel, the area where structures are located shall not be later
subdivided, nor shall lot lines be altered through lot line adjustment, so as
to reduce the building site area and/or frontage below the requirements of the
applicable zoning district or other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code,
or in any way that makes the use of the parcel more nonconforming.
Chapter 17.54 APPEALS
17.54.010 Purpose of chapter.
   Determinations or actions of the director, commission, or council may be
appealed as provided by this chapter.
17.54.020 Appeal subjects and jurisdiction.
   Determinations and actions that may be appealed, and the authority to act
upon an appeal shall be as follows.
   A.   Code Administration and Interpretation. The following determinations
and actions of the director and department staff may be appealed to the
commission and then to the council:
   1.   Determinations on the meaning or applicability of the provisions of
this Zoning Code that are believed to be in error, and cannot be resolved with
staff;
   2.   Any determination that a permit application or information submitted
with the application is incomplete, in compliance with State law (Government
Code Section 65943); and
   3.   Any enforcement action in compliance with
Chapter 17.60 (Enforcement of Zoning Code Provisions).
   B.   Land Use Permit and Hearing Decisions. Decisions of the director on
zoning clearances, site plan and architectural review, and minor use permits
may be appealed to the planning commission, except that zoning clearances for
accessory dwelling units may not be appealed. (Ord. O-2018-011 § 8, 2018: Ord.
03-03 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
17.54.030 Filing of appeals.
   A.   Eligibility. An appeal may be filed by:
   1.   Any person affected by an administrative determination or action by the
director, as described in Section
17.54.020(A), above;
   2.   In the case of a land use permit or hearing decision described in
Section
17.54.020(B), above by anyone who, in person or through a representative,
appeared at a public hearing in connection with the decision being appealed, or
who otherwise informed the city in writing of the nature of their concerns
before the hearing.
   B.   Timing and Form of Appeal. All appeals shall be submitted in writing on
a city application form, and shall specifically state the pertinent facts of
the case and the basis for the appeal.
   1.   Appeals shall be filed in the office of the city clerk within ten days
following the final date of the determination or action being appealed.
   2.   An appeal to a city decision on an appealable development within the
coastal zone by two Coastal Commissioners shall be filed within ten days of the
Central Coast office of the Coastal Commission receiving the notice of final
city action required by Section
17.44.030 (Notice of Final City Action on Land Use Permits).
   C.   Fee. Appeals shall be accompanied by the filing fee set by the
council's fee resolution.
   D.   Scope of Land Use Permit Appeals. An appeal of a decision by the
director or commission on a land use permit shall be limited to issues raised
at the public hearing, or in writing before the hearing, or information that
was not known at the time of the decision that is being appealed.
17.54.040 Processing of appeals.
   A.   Scheduling of Hearing. After an appeal has been received in compliance
with the procedures listed in subsection B, above the appeal shall be
transmitted to the director who shall place the item on the next available
commission agenda, or the city clerk shall schedule the matter for the next
available council agenda, as applicable to the appeal.
   B.   Report. After the appeal hearing has been scheduled, the director shall
prepare a report on the matter, and forward the report to the appropriate
appeal body.
   C.   Joining an Appeal. Only those persons who file an appeal within the
ten-day appeal period in compliance with subsection A, above, shall be
considered the appellants of the subject permit. Any person who wishes to join
an appeal shall follow the same procedures for an appellant in compliance with
subsection A, above. No person shall be allowed to join an appeal after the end
of the ten-day appeal period.
   D.   Action and Findings.
   1.   General Procedure. The appeal body shall conduct a public hearing in
compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings). At the hearing, the appeal body may consider
any issue involving the matter that is the subject of the appeal, in addition
to the specific grounds for the appeal.
   a.   The appeal body may affirm, affirm in part, or reverse the action,
decision, or determination that is the subject of the appeal, based upon
findings of fact about the particular case. The findings shall identify the
reasons for the action on the appeal, and verify the compliance or non-
compliance of the subject of the appeal with the provisions of this Zoning
Code.
   b.   When reviewing a decision on a land use permit, the appeal body may
adopt additional conditions of approval, that may address other issues or
concerns than the subject of the appeal.
   2.   Appeals to the Council.
   a.   By an Appellant. A decision by the commission may be appealed to the
council as provided by Section
17.54.030 (Filing of Appeals), above.
   b.   Council's Decision is Final. The decision of the council on an appeal
shall be final.
   E.   Effective Date of Appeal Decision. A decision by the commission is
effective on the eleventh day after the decision, when no appeal to the
decision has been filed with the council. A decision by the council is
effective as of the date of the decision, except in the case of a development
that is appealable to the Coastal Commission in compliance with Section
17.54.050 (Appeals to the Coastal Commission).
   F.   Notice of Final Action on Appeals within the Coastal Zone. Where an
appeal has been filed and decided on a project that is appealable to the
Coastal Commission in compliance with Section
17.54.050 (Appeals to the Coastal Commission), the city shall provide notice of
final action in compliance with Section
17.44.030 (Final City Action on Land Use Permits).
17.54.050 Appeals to the Coastal Commission.
   Decisions by the director, commission, and council on developments within
the coastal zone may be appealed to the California Coastal Commission in
compliance with this section.
   A.   Status of Appellant:
   1.   Who May Appeal. An appeal may be filed by an applicant, any aggrieved
person, or two members of the Coastal Commission in compliance with Public
Resources Code Section 30625.
   2.   Aggrieved Person Defined. In compliance with Public Resources Code
Section 30801, an aggrieved person is: anyone who, either in person or through
a representative who was explicitly identified as such, appeared at a public
hearing before the director, commission or council in connection with the
decision or appeal of any development, or who by other appropriate means prior
to a hearing, informed the city of the nature of his or her concerns, unless
for good cause was unable to do either. Aggrieved person also includes the
applicant for a permit.
   B.   Exhaustion of City Appeals Required. For developments that may be
appealed to the Coastal Commission in compliance with subsection C below, an
applicant or aggrieved party may appeal a city decision on a land use permit to
the Coastal Commission only after all appeals to the Commission and Council
have been exhausted in compliance with this chapter. This limitation shall not
apply to any circumstance identified in California Code of Regulations Section
13573, including:
   1.   A situation where an appellant was denied the right of appeal in
compliance with this chapter because city notice and hearing procedures the
development did not comply with the provisions of Title 14, Division 5.5,
Chapter 8, Subchapter 2 of the California Code of Regulations; or
   2.   An appeal of a city decision by two members of the Coastal Commission
in compliance with Public Resources Code Section 30625. Provided, however, that
notice of a Coastal Commissioners' appeal shall be transmitted to the council
in compliance with California Code of Regulations Section 13573(b). The appeal
to the Coastal Commission by two commissioners shall be suspended where the
city decision has been appealed to the council. If the decision on the appeal
by the council modifies or reverses the previous decision, the Coastal
Commissioners shall be required to file a new appeal of that decision.
   C.   Appealable Development. In compliance with Public Resources Code
Section 30603(a), a decision by the city on a permit application for any of the
following projects may be appealed to the Coastal Commission:
   1.   Between the Sea and the First Public Road. Developments between the sea
and the first public road paralleling the sea or within three hundred feet of
the inland extent of any beach or the mean high tide line of the sea where
there is no beach, whichever is the greater distance;
   2.   Public Trust Lands, Submerged Lands, or Tidelands. Developments not
included within subsection (C)(1), above, located on public trust lands,
submerged lands, tidelands, or within one hundred feet of any estuary, stream,
or wetland;
   3.   Sensitive Coastal Resource Area. Developments not included within
subsection (C)(2), above, located in a sensitive coastal resource area; or
   4.   Public Works/Energy Facility. Any development which constitutes a major
public works project or energy facility.
   D.   Grounds for Appeal to Coastal Commission. As required by Public
Resources Code Section 30603, the grounds for an appeal to the Coastal
Commission of a city decision to either approve a land use permit, or to deny a
land use permit for a major public works project or a major energy facility,
shall be limited to an allegation that the development does not conform to the
standards of the city's certified local coastal program or the public access
policies of the Coastal Act.
   E.   Time for Appeal to Coastal Commission. An appeal of a council decision
on an appealable development shall be filed with the Coastal Commission within
ten working days of the date of the council decision, in compliance with this
chapter and the Coastal Act.
   F.   Notice to City of Appeal to Coastal Commission. An appellant shall
notify the city when appealing to the Coastal Commission by providing the city
a copy of the information required in California Code of Regulations Section
13111.
Chapter 17.56 GENERAL PLAN, ZONING CODE/MAP, AND LOCAL COASTAL PROGRAM
AMENDMENTS
17.56.010 Purpose of chapter.
   The following provisions allow for the amendment of the general plan, this
Zoning Code, the official zoning map, or the local coastal program, whenever
required by public necessity and general welfare.
17.56.020 Applicability.
   A general plan or local coastal program Amendment may include revisions to
text, goals, policies, actions, or land use designations. Amendments to this
Zoning Code may modify any standards, requirements, or procedures applicable to
the subdivision, development, and/or use of property within the city. Zoning
map amendments have the effect of rezoning property from one zoning district to
another.
17.56.040 Initiation of amendments.
   An amendment to the general plan, local coastal program, or this Zoning Code
shall be initiated in compliance with this section.
   A.   Who May Initiate an Amendment. An amendment may be initiated by:
   1.   The filing with the commission of a resolution of intention by the
council;
   2.   The passage of a resolution of intention by the commission; or
   3.   The filing with the commission of a petition or application by the
record owners of property which is the subject of a proposed amendment or by
their authorized agents.
   B.   Application Requirements. An application for amendment shall be on the
forms and accompanied by all information required by the department, and shall
also be accompanied by the filing fee established by the city's fee resolution.
17.56.040 Hearings and notice.
   Upon receipt of a complete application to amend the general plan, this
Zoning Code, the zoning map, or the local coastal program, or upon initiation
by the director, commission, or council, and following department review,
public hearings shall be set before the commission and council. Notice of the
hearings shall be given in compliance with
Chapter 17.58 (Public Hearings).
17.56.050 Commission action on amendments.
   The commission shall make a written recommendation to the council whether to
approve, approve in modified form, or disapprove the proposed amendment, based
upon the findings contained in Section
17.56.070 (Findings).
17.56.060 Council action on amendments.
   Upon receipt of the commission's recommendation, the council shall, approve,
approve in modified form, or disapprove the proposed amendment based upon the
findings in Section
17.56.070 (Findings).
   If the council proposes to adopt any substantial modification(s) to the
amendment not previously considered by the commission during its hearings, the
proposed modification shall be first referred back to the commission for its
recommendation. Failure of the commission to report back to the council within
forty-five days after the referral, or within any longer time set by the
council, shall be deemed a recommendation for approval of the modification(s).
17.56.070 Findings.
   A.   Findings for General Plan amendments. An amendment to the general plan
may be approved only if all of the following findings of fact can be made in a
positive manner:
   1.   The proposed amendment is internally consistent with the general plan;
   2.   The proposed amendment would not be detrimental to the public interest,
health, safety, convenience, or welfare of the city;
   3.   The site is physically suitable (including access, provision of
utilities, compatibility with adjoining land uses, and absence of physical
constraints) for the requested/ anticipated land use development(s); and
   4.   The proposed amendment is in compliance with the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   B.   Findings for Zoning Code/Map Amendments. An amendment to the text of
this Zoning Code or the Official Zoning Map may be approved only if all of the
following findings of fact can be made in a positive manner, as applicable to
the type of amendment.
   1.   Findings Required for All Zoning Code/Map Amendments:
   a.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, policies, and
actions of the general plan;
   b.   The proposed amendment would not be detrimental to the public interest,
health, safety, convenience, or welfare of the city; and
   c.   The proposed amendment is in compliance with the provisions of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   2.   Additional Finding for Zoning Code Amendments. The proposed amendment
is internally consistent with other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
   3.   Additional Finding for Zoning Map Amendments. The site is physically
suitable (including access, provision of utilities, compatibility with
adjoining land uses, and absence of physical constraints) for the requested
zoning designations and anticipated land use(s)/ development(s).
17.56.080 Prezoning.
   A.   Purpose. An unincorporated property within the city's sphere of
influence may be prezoned for the purpose of determining the zoning that will
apply to the property in the event of subsequent annexation to the city. The
initiation and the procedures for the prezoning shall be the same procedures
which govern the rezoning of property within the city.
   Upon the effective date of annexation of property which has been prezoned in
compliance with this section, the zoning designation shall become the official
zoning designation for the property and shall be so designated on the city's
Official Zoning Map.
   B.   Commission action on Prezoning. The commission shall make a written
recommendation to the council whether to approve, approve in modified form, or
disapprove the proposed prezoning, based on the findings contained in 17.56.080
(D) (Findings for prezoning), below.
   C.   Council Action on Prezoning. Upon receipt of the commission's
recommendation, the council shall approve, approve in modified form or
disapprove the proposed prezoning based on the findings contained in 17.56.080
(D) (Findings for prezoning), below.
   If the council proposes to adopt any substantial modification(s) to the
prezoning not previously considered by the commission during its hearings, the
proposed modification(s) may be first referred back to the commission for its
recommendation, in compliance with State law (Government Code Section 65857)
and Section
17.56.060 (Council Action on Amendments), above.
   D.   Findings for Prezoning. A prezoning may be approved only if all of the
following findings of fact can be made in a positive manner:
   1.   The proposed prezoning is consistent with the goals, policies, and
actions of the general plan;
   2.   The proposed prezoning would not be detrimental to the public interest,
health, safety, convenience, or welfare of the city; and
   3.   The site is physically suitable (including access, provision of
utilities, compatibility with adjoining land uses and absence of physical
constraints) for the requested/ anticipated land use(s)/development(s).
17.56.090 Amendments to the local coastal program.
   The certified local coastal program (LCP) or any portion (land use plan or
relevant provisions of this Zoning Code) may be amended by the council in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter for general plan and Zoning
Code/map amendments; provided that an amendment to the LCP land use
designations, or any Zoning Code provision applicable within the coastal zone
shall not take effect until the amendment has been certified by the Coastal
Commission, in compliance with the Coastal Act. Amendments to the LCP approved
by the council in compliance with this chapter shall be prepared for submittal,
filed with the Coastal Commission, processed and decided by the Coastal
Commission in compliance with the Coastal Act.
Chapter 17.58 PUBLIC HEARINGS
17.58.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides procedures for public hearings before the commission
and council. When a public hearing is required by this Zoning Code, public
notice shall be given and the hearing shall be conducted as provided by this
chapter.
17.58.020 Notice of hearing.
   When a land use permit, or other matter requires a public hearing, the
public shall be provided notice of the hearing in compliance with State law
(Government Code Sections 65090, 65091, 65094 and 66451.3, and Public Resources
Code 21000 et seq.), and required by this chapter.
   A.   Contents of Notice. Notice of a public hearing shall include:
   1.   Hearing Information. The date, time, and place of the hearing and the
name of the hearing body; a brief description of the city's general procedure
concerning the conduct of hearings and decisions; and the phone number and
street address of the department, where an interested person could call or
visit to obtain additional information;
   2.   Project Information. The date of filing of the application and the name
of the applicant; the city's file number assigned to the application; a general
explanation of the matter to be considered; a general description, in text and/
or by diagram, of the location of the property that is the subject of the
hearing;
   3.   Statement on Environmental Document. If a proposed negative declaration
or final environmental impact report has been prepared for the project in
compliance with the Pismo Beach CEQA Guidelines, the hearing notice shall
include a statement that the hearing body will also consider approval of the
proposed negative declaration or certification of the final environmental
impact report; and
   4.   Coastal Zone Information. If the proposed development is within the
coastal zone, the notice shall also include a statement that the development is
within the coastal zone.
   B.   Method of Notice Distribution. Notice of a public hearing required by
this chapter for a land use permit, amendment, or appeal shall be given as
follows, as required by State law (Government Code Sections 65090 and 65091).
   1.   Publication. Notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city at least ten days before the hearing.
   2.   Mailing. Notice shall be mailed or delivered at least ten days before
the hearing to the following:
   a.   Owner(s) of Proposed Site. The owner(s) of the property being
considered in the application, or the owner's agent, and the applicant;
   b.   Local Agencies. Each local agency expected to provide schools, water,
or other essential facilities or services to the project, whose ability to
provide the facilities and services may be significantly affected;
   c.   Affected Owners. All owners of real property as shown on the latest San
Luis Obispo County equalized assessment roll, within a radius of three hundred
feet of the exterior boundaries of the parcel that is the subject of the
hearing; and any other person whose property might, in the judgment of the
director, be affected by the proposed project;
   d.   Nearby Residents. If the proposed development is within the coastal
zone, each dwelling unit within one hundred feet of the exterior boundaries of
the parcel that is the subject of the hearing;
   e.   Persons Requesting Notice. Any person who has filed a written request
for notice with the director and has paid the required fee for the notice; and
   f.   Coastal Commission. The Coastal Commission, if the proposed development
is within the coastal zone.
   3.   Alternative to Mailing. If the number of property owners to whom notice
would be mailed in compliance with subsection (B)(2) above is more than one
thousand, the director may choose to provide the alternative notice allowed by
State law (Government Code Section 65091(a)(3)), except for developments within
the coastal zone.
   4.   Posting. Notice shall be posted on the subject parcel in compliance
with city standards.
   5.   Additional Notice. In addition to the types of notice required above,
the director may provide any additional notice with content or using a
distribution method as the director determines is necessary or desirable.
17.58.030 Waiver of public hearing for minor development.
   This section provides for the waiver of a public hearing on a development
that is appealable to the Coastal Commission, in compliance with Public
Resources Code Section 30624.9.
   A.   Applicability. A public hearing that would otherwise be required prior
to city action on a minor development that is appealable to the Coastal
Commission may be waived only for a development which:
   1.   Is consistent with the certified local coastal program;
   2.   Requires no discretionary approval other than site plan and
architectural review by the director; and
   3.   Has no adverse effect either individually or cumulatively on coastal
resources or public access to the shoreline or along the coast.
   Minor development shall include single family homes and additions to single
family homes, and other development determined by the review authority to meet
the above criteria.
   B.   Criteria for Waiver. A public hearing may be waived for minor
development if both of the following occur:
   1.   Notice that a public hearing shall be held upon request by any person
is provided by the city to all persons who would otherwise be required to be
notified of a public hearing by Section
17.58.020(B) (Method of Notice Distribution), as well as any other persons
known to be interested in receiving notice; and
   2.   No request for public hearing is received by the city within fifteen
working days from the date of the city sending the notice.
   C.   Content of Notice. The notice shall contain all information required by
Section
17.58.020(A) (Contents of Notice), and shall also provide a statement that
failure by a person to request a public hearing may result in the loss of that
person's ability to appeal to the Coastal Commission any action taken by the
city on a land use permit application.
17.58.040 Notice of non-appealable development.
   The California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section 13568b, requires that
all development within the coastal zone (except that which is categorically
excluded) must receive public notice regardless of whether this Zoning Code
requires a public hearing before the development can be approved or
disapproved. Public notice requirements for projects requiring a public hearing
are provided in Section
17.58.020. This section provides notice requirements for projects requiring
zoning clearance, or site plan and architectural review by the director, which
are not appealable to the Coastal Commission in compliance with Public
Resources Code Section 30603, and which are not categorically excluded.
   A.   Distribution of Notice. Within ten days of accepting a land use permit
application for a non-appealable development, or at least ten days before the
city's decision on the application, the city shall provide notice, by first-
class mail, of the pending development approval, to:
   1.   All persons who have requested to be on the mailing list for the
particular project or for decisions by the city within the coastal zone;
   2.   All owners of real property as shown on the latest San Luis Obispo
County equalized assessment roll, and residents, within a radius of one hundre
feet of the exterior boundaries of the parcel involved in the application; and
   3.   The Coastal Commission.
   B.   Content of Notice. The notice shall contain the information required
for public notices by Section
17.58.020(A), and the following:
   1.   The date the application will be acted upon by the city's review
authority;
   2.   The city's general procedure concerning the submission of public
comments either in writing or orally before the decision is rendered; and
   3.   A statement that a public comment period of sufficient time to allow
for the submission of comments by mail will be held before the decision is
rendered.
17.58.050 Scheduling of hearing.
   After the completion of any environmental documents required by the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and a department staff report, the
matter shall be scheduled for public hearing on the next available commission
or council agenda (as applicable), but no sooner than twenty-one days after the
posting of a proposed negative declaration.
17.58.060 Hearing procedure.
   Hearings shall be held at the date, time, and place described in the public
notice required by this chapter. Any hearing may be continued from time to
time, provided that before the adjournment or recess of the hearing, a clear
public announcement is made specifying the date, time, and place to which the
hearing will be continued.
17.58.070 Recommendation by commission.
   At the conclusion of any public hearing on a proposed amendment to the
general plan/local coastal plan, this Zoning Code, the zoning map, or other
provision of the certified local coastal program, a development agreement, or a
specific plan, the commission shall forward a recommendation, including all
required findings, to the council for final action.
   Following the hearing, a copy of the commission's recommendation shall be
mailed to the applicant at the address shown on the application.
17.58.080 Decision and notice.
   A.   Decision. The hearing body (director, commission, or council, as
applicable) may announce and record their decision on the matter being
considered at the conclusion of a scheduled hearing, or defer action and
continue the matter to a later meeting agenda in compliance with Section
17.58.060 (Hearing Procedure). At the conclusion of a hearing conducted by the
director, the director may instead refer the matter to the commission for
determination. The decision of the council on any matter except a local coastal
program amendment (see Section
17.56.090) shall be final.
   B.   Notice of Decision. The notice of decision shall contain applicable
findings, any conditions of approval, and reporting/monitoring requirements
deemed necessary to mitigate any impacts and protect the public convenience,
health, interest, safety, or general welfare of the city. Following the hearing
and decision, a notice of the decision and any conditions of approval shall be
provided in compliance with Section
17.44.030 (Final City Action on Land Use Permits).
17.58.090 Effective date of decision.
   The decision of the director or commission is final and effective on the
eleventh day following the decision unless an appeal is filed in compliance
with
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals), and except for local coastal program amendments
(Section
17.56.090).
Chapter 17.60 ENFORCEMENT OF ZONING CODE PROVISIONS
17.60.010 Purpose of chapter.
   The provisions of this chapter are intended to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this Zoning Code and any conditions of land use permit or
subdivision approval, to promote the city's planning efforts and for the
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare.
17.60.020 Building permits and business licenses.
   A.   Compliance. All departments, officials, and public employees of the
city which are vested with the authority or duty to issue permits or licenses
shall comply with the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   B.   Permits or Licenses in Conflict with Code. Permits or licenses for uses
or structures that would be in conflict with the provisions of this Zoning Code
shall not be issued.
   C.   Permits or Licenses Deemed Void. Any permit or license issued in
conflict with the provisions of this Zoning Code shall be deemed void.
17.60.030 Official duty to enforce.
   A.   Director of Public Services. It shall be the duty of the director of
public services to enforce the provisions of the Zoning Code and any use of
land or structures and the addition, alteration, construction, erection,
demolition, moving, or reconstruction of or to any structure.
   B.   Police Department. During non-office hours, it shall be the
responsibility of the police department to monitor and enforce the provisions
of this Zoning Code.
17.60.040 Violations.
   Any structure constructed or maintained contrary to the provisions of the
Zoning Code and any use of land or structures operated or maintained contrary
to the provisions of this Zoning Code are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance(s).
   A.   Public Nuisance. Any structure or use which is altered, constructed,
converted, enlarged, established, erected, maintained, moved, or operated,
contrary to the provisions of this Zoning Code or any applicable condition of
approval imposed on a permit, is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public
nuisance.
   B.   Penalty for Violation. Violations of this Zoning Code shall be subject
to the remedies and penalties identified in this chapter and
Chapter 1.20 (General Penalty) of the Municipal Code.
   C.   Stop Work Order. Any construction in violation of this Zoning Code or
any condition(s) imposed on a permit shall be subject to the issuance of a
"stop work order." Any violation of a stop work order shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
17.60.050 Remedies are cumulative.
   All remedies contained in this Zoning Code for the handling of violations or
enforcement of the provisions of this Zoning Code shall be cumulative and not
exclusive of any other applicable provisions of city, county, or State law.
Should a person be found guilty and convicted of a misdemeanor for the
violation of any provision of this Zoning Code, the conviction shall not
prevent the city from pursuing any other available remedy to correct the
violation(s).
17.60.060 Inspection.
   Every applicant seeking a permit or any other action in compliance with this
Zoning Code shall allow the city officials handling the application access to
any premises or property which is the subject of the application. If the permit
or other action in compliance with this Zoning Code is approved, the owner or
applicant shall allow appropriate city officials access to the premises in
order to determine continued compliance with the approved permit and/or any
conditions of approval imposed on the permit.
17.60.070 Initial enforcement action.
   This section describes the procedures for initiating enforcement action in
cases where the director has determined that real property within the city is
being used, maintained, or allowed to exist in violation of the provisions of
this Zoning Code. It is the objective of these provisions to encourage the
voluntary cooperation of responsible parties in the prompt correction of
violations, so that the other enforcement measures provided by this chapter may
be avoided.
   A.   Notice to Responsible Parties. The Director shall provide the record
owner of the subject site and any person in possession or control of the site
with a written Notice of Violation, which shall include the following
information:
   1.   A time limit for correcting the violation in compliance with subsection
B, below;
   2.   A statement that the city intends to charge the property owner for all
administrative costs associated with the abatement of the violation(s) in
compliance with Section
17.60.100 (Recovery of Costs), and/or initiate legal action as described in
Section
17.60.080 (Legal Remedies);
   3.   A statement that the property owner may request and be provided a
meeting with the director to discuss possible methods and time limits for the
correction of the violations.
   B.   Time Limit for Correction. The notice of violation shall state that the
violation shall be corrected within thirty days from the date of the notice to
avoid further enforcement action by the city, unless the responsible party
contacts the director within that time to arrange for a longer period for
correction. The thirty-day time limit may be extended by the director upon
determining that the responsible party will likely correct the violation within
a reasonable time. The director may also require through the notice that
correction occur within less than thirty days if the director determines that
the violation constitutes a hazard to public health or safety.
   C.   Use of Other Enforcement Procedures. The enforcement procedures of
Section
17.60.080 (Legal Remedies) may be employed by the director after or instead of
the provisions of this section where the director determines that this section
would be ineffective in securing the correction of the violation within a
reasonable time.
17.60.080 Legal remedies.
   The city may choose to undertake any of the following legal actions to
correct and/or abate nuisances or violations of this Zoning Code.
   A.   Civil Actions.
   1.   Injunction. The city attorney may apply to the Superior Court of San
Luis Obispo County for injunctive relief to terminate a violation of this
Zoning Code.
   2.   Abatement Proceedings. Where any person, firm, or corporation fails to
abate a violation after being provided a notice of violation in compliance with
Section
17.60.070(A) and the opportunity to correct or end the violation, the city
attorney may apply to the Superior Court of San Luis Obispo County for an order
authorizing the city to undertake actions necessary to abate the violation and
require the violator to pay for the cost of the actions.
   3.   Nuisance Abatement. The city may pursue nuisance abatement in
compliance with
Chapter 8.20 of the Municipal Code (Nuisances).
   B.   Civil Remedies and Penalties.
   1.   Civil Penalties. Any person who willfully violates the provisions of
this Zoning Code or any permit issued in compliance with this Zoning Code,
shall be liable for a civil penalty in compliance with the council's fee
resolution for each day that the violation continues to exist.
   2.   Costs and Damages. Any person violating any provisions of this Zoning
Code or any permit issued in compliance with this Zoning Code, shall be liable
to the city for the costs incurred and the damages suffered by the city, its
agents, and agencies as a direct result of the violations.
   3.   Procedure. In determining the amount of the civil penalty to impose,
the court should consider all relevant circumstances, including the extent of
the harm caused by the conduct constituting a violation, the nature and
persistence of the conduct, the length of time over which the conduct occurred,
the assets, liabilities, and net worth of the defendant, whether corporate or
individual, and any corrective action taken by defendant.
   C.   Criminal Actions and Penalties.
   1.   Misdemeanor. Any person, whether as agent, principal, or otherwise,
violating or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this Zoning Code
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be punishable by:
   a.   Fine. A fine of not more than five hundred dollars; or
   b.   Imprisonment. Imprisonment in the county jail for up to six months; or
   c.   Both Fine and Imprisonment.
   2.   Separate Offense. Any violation of this Zoning Code which is committed
and continues from day-to-day constitutes a separate offense for each and every
day during which the violation is committed or continued.
17.60.090 Permit revocation or modification.
   The review authority shall hold a public hearing in order to revoke or
modify any permit granted in compliance with the provisions of this Zoning
Code. Ten days before the public hearing, notice shall be delivered in writing
to the applicant and/or owner of the property for which the permit was granted.
Notice shall be deemed delivered two days after being mailed, first class
postage paid, to the owner as shown on the current tax rolls of the County of
San Luis Obispo, and/or the project applicant.
   A.   Permit Revocation or Modification. A permit may be revoked or modified
by the review authority if any one of the following findings of fact can be
made in a positive manner:
   1.   That circumstances have changed so that one or more of the findings
contained in Sections
17.42.040 (Temporary Use Permits--Findings) or
17.42.050 (Conditional Use Permits--Findings) can no longer be made;
   2.   That the permit was obtained by misrepresentation or fraud;
   3.   That the improvement authorized in compliance with the permit had
ceased or was suspended for one hundred eighty days or more;
   4.   That one or more of the conditions of the permit have not been met;
   5.   That the improvement authorized in compliance with the permit is in
violation of any statute, ordinance, law, or regulation; or
   6.   That the improvement authorized in compliance with the permit is
detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare or constitutes a nuisance.
   B.   Variance Revocation or Modification. A variance may be revoked or
modified by the review authority if any one of the following findings of fact
can be made in a positive manner, in addition to those outlined in subsection
A, above:
   1.   That circumstances have changed so that one or more of the findings
contained in 17.42.070(E) (Findings, Decision) can no longer be made, and the
grantee has not substantially exercised the rights granted by the variance; or
   2.   That one or more of the conditions of the variance have not been met,
and the grantee has not substantially exercised the rights granted by the
variance.
17.60.100 Recovery of costs.
   This section establishes procedures for the recovery of administrative
costs, including staff and city attorney time expended on the enforcement of
the provisions of this Zoning Code in cases where no permit is required in
order to correct a violation. The intent of this section is to recover city
administrative costs reasonably related to enforcement.
   A.   Record of Costs. The department shall maintain records of all
administrative costs, incurred by responsible city departments, associated with
the processing of violations and enforcement of this Zoning Code, and shall
recover the costs from the property owner in compliance with this section.
Staff time shall be calculated at an hourly rate as established and revised
from time to time by the council.
   B.   Notice. Upon investigation and a determination that a violation of any
of the provisions of this Zoning Code is found to exist, the director shall
notify the record owner or any person having possession or control of the
property by mail, of the existence of the violation, the department's intent to
charge the property owner for all administrative costs associated with
enforcement, and of the owner's right to a hearing on any objections they may
have. The notice shall be in a form approved by the city attorney.
   C.   Summary of Costs and Notice.
   1.   At the conclusion of the case, the director shall send a summary of
costs associated with enforcement to the owner and/or person having possession
or control of the property by certified mail.
   2.   The summary shall include a notice in a form approved by the city
attorney, advising the responsible party of their right to request a hearing on
the charges for city cost recovery within ten days of the date of the notice,
and that if no request for hearing is filed, the responsible party will be
liable for the charges.
   3.   In the event that no request for hearing is timely filed or, after a
hearing the director affirms the validity of the costs, the property owner or
person in control shall be liable to the city in the amount stated in the
summary or any lesser amount as determined by the director.
   4.   The costs shall be recoverable in a civil action in the name of the
city, in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Request for Hearing on Costs. Any property owner, or other person
having possession and control of the subject property, who receives a summary
of costs shall have the right to a hearing before the director on their
objections to the proposed costs.
   1.   A request for hearing shall be filed with the department within ten
days of the service by mail of the department's summary of costs, on a form
provided by the department.
   2.   Within thirty days of the filing of the request, and on ten days
written notice to the owner, the director shall hold a hearing on the owner's
objections, and determine their validity.
   3.   In determining the validity of the costs, the director shall consider
whether total costs are reasonable in the circumstances of the case. Factors to
be considered include: whether the present owner created the violation; whether
there is a present ability to correct the violation; whether the owner moved
promptly to correct the violation; the degree of cooperation provided by the
owner; and whether reasonable minds can differ as to whether a violation
exists.
   4.   The director's decision shall be appealable to the council as provided
by
Chapter 17.54 (Appeals).
17.60.110 Additional permit processing fees.
   Any person who establishes a land use, or alters, constructs, enlarges,
erects, maintains, or moves any structure without first obtaining any permit
required by this Zoning Code, shall pay the additional permit processing fees
established by the council's fee resolution for the correction of the
violations, before being granted a permit for a use or structure on the site.
17.60.120 Full compliance.
   No application required pursuant to this title shall be accepted for
processing or approved where the property owner has on the subject property or
any other property owned by the property owner within the city, an existing
land use, not previously authorized by any statute or ordinance, which is being
maintained or operated in violation of any applicable provision of this code,
or any condition of approval of a land use permit under this title. This
provision applies to the operation of land uses only, and does not affect
buildings or structures which do not conform to development standards.
   Where the community development director, at his/her sole discretion, and
whose determination shall be final, determines that the use in question is
consistent with the objectives, goals and policies of the general plan, or that
the continuation of said use is essential or desirable to the public
convenience or welfare, this section shall not apply to an application
submitted pursuant to this title. (Ord. O-2016-007 § 1 (part), 2016)
Article VI ZONING CODE DEFINITIONS
Chapter 17.62 DEFINITIONS
17.62.010 Purpose of chapter.
   This chapter provides definitions of terms and phrases used in this Zoning
Code that are technical or specialized, or that may not reflect common usage.
If any of the definitions in this chapter conflict with definitions in other
provisions of the Municipal Code, these definitions shall control for the
purposes of this Zoning Code. If a word is not defined in this chapter, or
other provisions of the Municipal Code, the director shall determine the
appropriate definition.
17.62.020 Definitions of specialized terms and phrases.
   As used in this Zoning Code, the following terms and phrases shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in this section, unless the context in which they are
used clearly requires otherwise. The following definitions are in alphabetical
order.
   A.   Definitions, "A."
   Accessory Retail Uses (land use). The retail sales of various products
(including food) in a store or similar facility that is located within a health
care, hotel, office, or industrial complex for the purpose of serving employees
or customers, and is not visible from public streets. These uses include
pharmacies, gift shops, and food service establishments within hospitals;
convenience stores and food service establishments within hotel, office and
industrial complexes.
   Accessory Structure. A structure that is physically detached from, secondary
and incidental to, and commonly associated with the primary structure. For the
purposes of this Zoning Code, accessory structures and uses include: detached
garages, greenhouses, artist's studios, and workshops; hot tubs, jacuzzis,
spas, and swimming pools, together with any enclosures; and any other open air
enclosures, including gazebos and detached patio covers.
   Adult Arcade. A business establishment to which the public is permitted or
invited and where coin, card or slug operated, or electronically, electrically
or mechanically controlled devices, still or motion picture machines,
projectors, videos, holograms, virtual reality devices or other image-producing
devices are maintained to show images on a regular or substantial basis, where
the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas. Such devices shall be referred to as adult arcade devices.
   Adult Booth/Individual Viewing Area. A partitioned or partially enclosed
portion of an adult business used for any of the following purposes:
   1.   Where a live or taped performance is presented or viewed, where the
performances and/or images are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis
on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas;
   2.   Where adult arcade devices are located.
   Adult Day Care Facilities (land use). State-licensed facilities that provide
nonmedical care and supervision for more than six adults for periods of less
than twenty-four hours.
   Adult Businesses (land use). Any business establishment or concern that:
   1.   As a regular and substantial course of conduct operates as an adult
bookstore, adult hotel or motel, adult motion picture arcade, adult motion
picture theater, cabaret, sexual encounter center, adult modeling studio, or
any other business or establishment that offers its patrons services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or
relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas," but
not including those uses or activities, the regulation of which is preempted by
state law, or therapeutic massage services provided by licensed professionals;
or
   2.   As a regular and substantial course of conduct offers, sells or
distributes adult-oriented material or sexually-oriented merchandise, or that
offers to its patrons materials, products, merchandise, services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas but not
including those uses or activities which are preempted by State law.
   3.   Card rooms.
   Adult Cabaret. A business establishment (whether or not serving alcoholic
beverages) that features adult live entertainment.
   Adult Hotel/Motel. A hotel or motel, as defined in this Code, that is used
for presenting on a regular and substantial basis images through closed circuit
television, cable television, still or motion picture machines, projectors,
videos, holograms, virtual reality devices or other image producing devices
that are distinguished or characterized by the emphasis on matter depicting or
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   Adult Live Entertainment. Any physical human body activity, whether
performed or engaged in alone or with other persons, including but not limited
to singing, walking, speaking, dancing, acting, posing, simulating, wrestling
or pantomiming, in which:
   1.   The performer (including but not limited to a topless and/or bottomless
dancer, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers or similar performers) exposes
to public view, without opaque covering, specified anatomical areas; and/or
   2.   The performance or physical human body activity depicts, describes or
relates to specified sexual activities, whether or not the specified anatomical
areas are covered.
   Adult Modeling Studio. A business establishment which provides for any form
of consideration, the services of a live human model, who, for the purposes of
sexual stimulation of patrons, displays specified anatomical areas to be
observed, sketched, photographed, filmed, painted, sculpted or otherwise
depicted by persons paying for such consideration. Adult modeling studio does
not include schools maintained pursuant to standards set by the Board of
Education of the State of California.
   Adult Motion Picture Theater. A business establishment, with or without a
stage or proscenium, where, on a regular and substantial basis and for any form
of consideration, material is presented through films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, laser disks, holograms, virtual reality devices or similar
electronically generated reproductions that is/are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   Adult Oriented Material. Accessories, paraphernalia, books, magazines, laser
disks, compact discs, digital video disks, photographs, prints, drawings,
paintings, motion pictures, pamphlets, videos, slides, tapes, holograms or
electronically generated images or devices, including computer software, or any
combination thereof that is distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical. Adult oriented material shall include sexually oriented
merchandise.
   Adult Retail Store. A business establishment having adult oriented material
as a regular and substantial portion of its stock in trade.
   Agent. A person authorized in writing by the property owner to represent and
act for a property owner in contacts with city employees, committees,
commissions, and the council, regarding matters regulated by this Zoning Code.
   Alley. A public or private roadway, generally not more than thirty feet wide
that provides vehicle access to the rear or side of parcels having other public
street frontage, that is not intended for general traffic circulation.
   Allowed Use. A use of land identified by Article II (Zoning Districts and
Allowable Land uses) as a permitted or conditional use that may be established
with land use permit and, where applicable, building permit approval, subject
to compliance with all applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
   Alteration. Any construction or physical change in the internal arrangement
of rooms or the supporting members of a structure, or a change in the external
appearance of any structure, not including painting.
   Antenna. A device used in communications which transmits or receives radio
signals.
   1.   Antenna, Dish. A dish-like antennas used to link communication sites
together by wireless transmissions of voice or data. Also called microwave dish
antenna.
   2.   Antenna, Panel. An antenna or array of antennas that are flat and
rectangular and are designed to concentrate a radio signal in a particular
area. Also referred to as a directional antenna.
   3.   Antenna, Satellite. An antenna for the home, business, or institutional
reception of television, data, and other telecommunications broadcasts from
orbiting satellites.
   4.   Antenna, Whip. An antenna that transmits signals in three hundred sixty
degrees. They are typically cylindrical in shape and are less than six inches
in diameter. Also called omnidirectional, stick or pipe antennas.
   Approval. Includes both approval and approval with conditions.
   Art, Antique, Collectible and Gift Sales (land use). Retail sales uses
including antique shops, art galleries, curio, gift, and souvenir shops, and
the sales of collectible items including sports cards and comic books. Stores
selling handcrafted items that are produced on the site are instead defined as
"Artisan Shops."
   Articulation. Horizontal and/or vertical variations in the plane of a
building wall. See Figure 6-1.
   FIGURE 6-1
BUILDING ARTICULATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5822.jpg]
 
   Auditoriums, and Meeting Halls (land use). Indoor facilities for public
assembly and group entertainment, other than sporting events, including:
   Civic theaters, meeting halls and facilities for "live" theater and
concerts;
   Exhibition and convention halls;
   Meeting halls for rent;
   Public and semi-public auditoriums;
   Similar public assembly uses;
   Does not include outdoor theaters, concert and similar entertainment
facilities, and indoor and outdoor facilities for sporting events; see "Outdoor
Recreation." Motion picture theaters are separately.
   Auto and Vehicle Sales/Rental (land use). Retail establishments selling and/
or renting automobiles, trucks and vans. May also include repair shops and the
sales of parts and accessories, incidental to vehicle dealerships. Does not
include: the sale of auto parts/accessories separate from a vehicle dealership
(see "Auto Parts Sales"); bicycle and moped sales (see "General Retail
Stores"); tire recapping establishments (see "Repair and Maintenance--
Vehicle"); businesses dealing exclusively in used parts, (see "Recycling--Scrap
and Dismantling Yards"); or "Service Stations," which are separately defined.
   Auto Parts Sales (land use). Stores that sell new automobile parts, tires,
and accessories. May also include minor parts installation (see "Vehicle
Services"). Does not include tire recapping establishments, which are found
under "Vehicle Services" or businesses dealing exclusively in used parts, which
are included under "Recycling--Scrap and Dismantling Yards."
   Automated Teller Machines (ATM) (land use). Computerized, self-service
machines used by banking customers for financial transactions, including
deposits, withdrawals and fund transfers, without contact with financial
institution personnel. The machines may be located at or within banks, or in
other locations.
   Automobile Repair (land use). See "Vehicle Services."
   B.   Definitions, "B."
   Banks and Financial Services (land use). Financial institutions including:
   Banks and trust companies;
   Credit agencies;
   Holding (but not primarily operating) companies;
   Lending and thrift institutions;
   Other investment companies;
   Securities/commodity contract brokers and dealers;
   Security and commodity exchanges;
   Vehicle finance (equity) leasing agencies;
   See also, "Automatic Teller Machine," above.
   Bars and Night Clubs (land use). Businesses where alcoholic beverages are
sold for on-site consumption, which are not part of a larger restaurant.
Includes bars, taverns, pubs, and similar establishments where any food service
is subordinate to the sale of alcoholic beverages. May include entertainment
(e.g., live music and/or dancing, comedy, etc.). May also include beer brewing
as part of a microbrewery, and other beverage tasting facilities.
   Base Transreceiver Station (BTS). A ground-mounted metal cabinet that
contains electronic radio equipment required by wireless communication
facilities.
   Bed and Breakfast Inns (land use). Residential structures with one family in
permanent residence with up to five bedrooms rented for overnight lodging,
where meals may be provided subject to Section 17.38.xxx (Bed and Breakfast
Inns), and applicable health department regulations. A bed and breakfast inn
with more than five guest rooms is considered a hotel or motel, and is included
under the definition of "Hotels and Motels." Does not include room rental,
which is separately defined.
   Best Management Practice (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, maintenance procedures,
education programs, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to waters of the United States.
BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices
to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, and
drainage from raw materials storage. The California Storm Water Best Management
Practice Handbooks for Municipal, Industrial/Commercial and Construction
Activity provide a detailed discussion of BMPs.
   Blufftop. The point at which the slope of an ocean-fronting coastal bluff
begins to change from near horizontal to more vertical.
   Building. See "Structure."
   Building Material and Hardware Stores (land use). Retail establishments
selling lumber and other large building materials, where most display and sales
occur indoors. Includes paint, wallpaper, glass, fixtures, nursery stock, lawn
and garden supplies. Includes all these stores selling to the general public,
even if contractor sales account for a major proportion of total sales.
Includes incidental retail ready-mix concrete operations, except where excluded
by a specific zoning district. Establishments primarily selling electrical,
plumbing, heating, and air conditioning equipment and supplies are classified
in "Warehousing, Wholesaling and Distribution."
   Building-mounted. Mounted to the top or side of a building or to other
structures.
   Business Support Services (land use). Establishments primarily within
buildings, providing other businesses with services including maintenance,
repair and service, testing, rental, etc., also includes:
   Blueprinting;
   Business equipment repair services (except vehicle repair, see "Vehicle
Services");
   Commercial art and design (production);
   Computer-related services (rental, repair);
   Copying and quick printing services;
   Equipment rental businesses within buildings (rental yards are under
"Equipment Rental");
   Film processing laboratories;
   Heavy equipment repair services where repair;
   Occurs on the client site;
   Janitorial services;
   Mail advertising services (reproduction and shipping);
   Outdoor advertising services;
   Photofinishing;
   Protective services (other than office related);
   Soils and materials testing laboratories;
   Window cleaning.
   C.   Definitions, "C."
   Cabinet Shop (land use). See "Furniture and Fixtures Manufacturing."
   California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). State law (California Public
Resources Code Sections 21000 et seq.) requiring public agencies to document
and consider the environmental effects of a proposed action, prior to allowing
the action to occur.
   Car Washes (land use). Permanent, self-service and/or attended car washing
establishments, including fully mechanized facilities. May include detailing
services. Temporary car washes are fund-raising activities, typically conducted
at a service station or other automotive-related business, where volunteers
wash vehicles by hand, and the duration of the event is limited to one day. See
Section
17.42.040 (Temporary Use Permits).
   Caretaker and Employee Housing (land use). A temporary or permanent
residence that is accessory to a nonresidential primary use of the site, where
needed for security, or twenty-four-hour care or supervision.
   CC&Rs. Conditions, Covenants, and Restrictions recorded with a grant deed;
also known as "deed restrictions."
   Cell Site. A geographical area with a radius of two to eight miles that
contains both transmitting and receiving antennas.
   Cellular. An analog or digital wireless communication technology that is
based on systems of interconnected neighboring cell sites, each of which
contains antennas.
   Check-cashing Establishment. Any establishment whose primary purpose is to
provide check cashing, pay day loans, car title loans, signature loans, and
other similar financial services. Does not include a state or federally
chartered bank, savings association, credit union, or industrial loan company.
Does not include retail sellers engaged primarily in the business of selling
consumer goods that provides check cashing services for a flat fee not
exceeding two dollars ($2.00) as an incidental service.
   Child Day Care Facilities (land use). Facilities that provide nonmedical
care and supervision of minor children for periods of less than twenty-four
hours. These facilities include the following, all of which are required to be
licensed by the California State Department of Social Services:
   1.   Child Day Care Center (land use). Commercial or non-profit child day
care facilities designed and approved to accommodate fifteen or more children.
Includes infant centers, preschools, sick-child centers, and school-age day
care facilities. These may be operated in conjunction with a school or church
facility, or as an independent land use.
   2.   Large Family Day Care Home (land use). A day care facility located in a
single-family residence where an occupant of the residence provides care and
supervision for seven to fourteen children. Children under the age of ten years
who reside in the home count as children served by the day care facility.
   3.   Small Family Day Care Home (land use). A day care facility located in a
single-family residence where an occupant of the residence provides care and
supervision for eight or fewer children. Children under the age of ten years
who reside in the home count as children served by the day care facility.
   City. The city of Pismo Beach, State of California, referred to in this
Zoning Code as the "city."
   City Council. The city council of the city of Pismo Beach, State of
California, referred to in this Zoning Code as the "council."
   City Planner. The city of Pismo Beach employee designated as the city
planner.
   Clubs, Lodges, and Private Meeting Halls (land use). Permanent,
headquarters-type and meeting facilities for organizations operating on a
membership basis for the promotion of the interests of the members, including
facilities for:
   Business associations;
   Civic, social and fraternal organizations;
   Labor unions and similar organizations;
   Political organizations;
   Professional membership organizations;
   Other membership organizations.
   Coastal Act. The California Coastal Act of 1976, California Public Resources
Code Sections 30000 et seq.
   Coastal Resources. Include, but are not limited to, public access and public
access facilities and opportunities, recreation areas and recreational
facilities and opportunities, (including for recreational water-oriented
activities) public views, natural landforms, marine resources, watercourses,
(e.g. rivers, streams, creeks, etc.) and their related corridors, water bodies
(e.g. wetlands, estuaries, lakes, etc.) and their related uplands, ground water
resources, biological resources, environmentally sensitive habitat areas,
agricultural lands, and archaeological or paleontological resources.
   Co-Location. The locating of wireless communications equipment from more
than one provider on a single building-mounted, roof-mounted or ground-mounted
wireless communication facility.
   Commission. See "Planning Commission."
   Community Centers (land use). Multi-purpose meeting and recreational
facilities typically consisting of one or more meeting or multi-purpose rooms,
kitchen and/or outdoor barbecue facilities, that are available for use by
various groups for such activities as meetings, parties, receptions, dances,
etc.
   Condominium. As defined by Civil Code Section 951(f), a development where
undivided interest in common in a portion of real property is coupled with a
separate interest in space called a unit, the boundaries of which are described
on a recorded final map or parcel map. The area within the boundaries may be
filled with air, earth, or water, or any combination thereof, and need not be
physically attached to any land except by easements for access and, if
necessary, support.
   Convenience/Liquor Stores (land use). Retail stores of three thousand five
hundred square feet or less in gross floor area, which carry a range of
merchandise oriented to convenience and travelers' shopping needs. These stores
may be part of a service station or an independent facility.
   D.   Definitions, "D."
   Demolition. The removal of more than fifty percent of the linear feet of the
exterior walls (structural framing) of a building.
   1.   A wall, or portion of a wall, is deemed "removed" when its structure is
separated from the foundation or relocated, or when the wall is enclosed behind
newly constructed space.
   2.   For the purposes of calculating the amount of exterior walls removed,
the remaining exterior walls must be contiguous.
   Density. The number of dwelling units per net acre, unless otherwise stated,
for residential uses.
   Department. The city of Pismo Beach public services department, referred to
in this Zoning Code as the "department."
   Detached. Any structure that does not have a wall or roof in common with
another structure.
   Development. In compliance with Public Resources Code Section 30106,
"development" means, on land, in or under water, the placement or erection of
any solid material or structure; discharge or disposal of any dredged material
or of any gaseous, liquid, solid, or thermal waste; grading, removing,
dredging, mining, or extraction of any materials; change in the density or
intensity of use of land, including subdivision in compliance with the Map Act,
and any other division of land, except where the land division is brought about
in connection with the purchase of the land by a public agency for public
recreational use; change in the intensity of use of water, or of access to
water; construction, reconstruction, demolition, or alteration in the size of
any structure, including any facility of any private, public, or municipal
utility; and the removal or harvesting of major vegetation other than for
agricultural purposes, and kelp harvesting. New development is any development
after the effective date of this Zoning Code.
   Development Agreement. A contract between the city and an applicant for a
development project, in compliance with 17.48 (Development Agreements) of this
Zoning Code and Government Code Sections 65864 et seq. A development agreement
is intended to provide assurance to the applicant that an approved project may
proceed subject to the policies, rules, regulations, and conditions of approval
applicable to the project at the time of approval, regardless of any changes to
city policies, rules, and regulations after project approval. In return, the
city may be assured that the applicant will provide infrastructure and/or pay
fees required by a new project.
   Director. The city of Pismo Beach public services director, or his/her
designee.
   District. See "Zoning District."
   Drive-in and Drive-thru Sales (land use). Facilities where food or other
products may be purchased by motorists without leaving their vehicles. These
facilities include fast-food restaurants, drive-through coffee, dairy product,
photo stores, etc.
   Drive-in and Drive-thru Services (land use). Facilities where services may
be obtained by motorists without leaving their vehicles. These facilities
include drive-up bank teller windows, dry cleaners, etc. Does not include:
automobile service stations, or car washes, which are separately defined.
   Duplexes (land use). Detached residential structures under single ownership
containing two dwellings.
   Dwelling, Dwelling Unit. Any structure designed or used for the shelter or
housing of one or more persons.
   E.   Definitions, "E."
   Electronics, Equipment and Appliance Manufacturing (land use).
Establishments engaged in manufacturing machinery, apparatus, and supplies for
the generation, storage, transmission, transformation and use of electrical
energy, including:
   Appliances including stoves/ovens, refrigerators, freezers, laundry
equipment, fans, vacuum cleaners, sewing machines;
   Aviation instruments;
   Electrical transmission and distribution equipment;
   Electronic components and accessories, and;
   Semiconductors, integrated circuits, related devices;
   Electronic instruments, components and equipment including calculators and
computers;
   Electrical welding apparatus;
   Lighting and wiring equipment including lamps and fixtures, wiring devices,
vehicle lighting;
   Industrial apparatus;
   Industrial controls;
   Instruments for measurement, testing, analysis and control, associated
sensors and accessories;
   Miscellaneous electrical machinery, equipment and supplies including
batteries, X-ray apparatus and tubes, electromedical and electrotherapeutic
apparatus, electrical equipment for internal combustion engines;
   Motors and generators;
   Optical instruments and lenses;
   Photographic equipment and supplies;
   Pre-recorded magnetic tape;
   Radio and television receiving equipment such as television and radio sets,
phonograph records and surgical, medical and dental instruments, equipment, and
supplies;
   Surveying and drafting instruments;
   Telephone and telegraph apparatus;
   Transformers, switch gear and switchboards;
   Watches and clocks.
   Does not include testing laboratories (soils, materials testing, etc.) (see
"Business Support Services"), or research and development facilities separate
from manufacturing (see "Research and Development").
   Environmental Impact Report (EIR). An informational document used to assess
the physical characteristics of an area and to determine what effects will
result if the area is altered by a proposed action, prepared in compliance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   Equestrian Facilities (land use). Commercial horse, donkey, and mule
facilities including horse ranches, boarding stables, riding schools and
academies, horse exhibition facilities (for shows or other competitive events),
pack stations, and barns, stables, corrals and paddocks accessory and
incidental to these uses.
   Equipment Rental (land use). Service establishments with outdoor storage/
rental yards, which may offer a wide variety of materials and equipment for
rental, including construction equipment.
   Existing Grade. See "Grade."
   F.   Definitions, "F."
   Fabric Product Manufacturing (land use). Manufacturing establishments
fabricating clothing, draperies, and other products by cutting and sewing
purchased textile fabrics, and related materials including leather, rubberized
fabrics, plastics and furs. Does not include tailors and dressmakers not
operating as a factory and not located on the site of a clothing store. See
also, "Textile and Leather Product Manufacturing."
   Feasible. Capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a
reasonable period of time, taking into account economic, environmental, social
and technological factors.
   Floor Area Ratio (FAR). The floor area ratio (FAR) is the ratio of floor
area to total lot area. FAR restrictions are used to limit the maximum floor
area allowed on a site, including all structures on the site. The maximum floor
area of all structures (measured from exterior wall to exterior wall) permitted
on a site (including carports) shall be determined by multiplying the floor
area ratio (FAR) by the total net area of the site (FAR x Net Site Area =
Maximum Allowable Floor Area).
   FIGURE 6-2
FLOOR AREA RATIO
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5824.jpg]
 
   Flower Tower. A structure that integrates a monopole antenna into a light
pole or other utility pole.
   Food and Beverage Product Manufacturing (land use). Manufacturing
establishments producing or processing foods and beverages for human
consumption, and certain related products. Includes:
   Bakeries;
   Bottling plants;
   Breweries;
   Candy, sugar and confectionery products;
   Manufacturing;
   Catering services separate from stores or;
   Restaurants;
   Coffee roasting;
   Dairy products manufacturing;
   Fats and oil product manufacturing;
   Fruit and vegetable canning, preserving, related;
   Processing;
   Grain mill products and by-products;
   Meat, poultry, and seafood canning, curing;
   Byproduct processing;
   Soft drink production;
   Miscellaneous food item preparation from raw;
   Products;
   May include tasting and accessory retail sales of beverages produced on
site. A tasting facility separate from the manufacturing facility is included
under the definition of "Bars and Night Clubs" if alcoholic beverages are
tasted, and under "Restaurant" if beverages are non-alcoholic.
   Does not include: bakeries which sell all products on-site (listed in
Article 2 (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses and Zone-Specific Standards)
as "Bakeries;" beer brewing as part of a brew pub, bar or restaurant (see "Bars
and Night Clubs"); the killing/slaughtering of animals, or rendering plants
(see "Slaughterhouses and Rendering Plants").
   Furniture and Fixtures Manufacturing (land use). Manufacturers which produce
wood and metal: household furniture; bedsprings and mattresses; all types of
office furniture, and partitions, shelving, lockers and store furniture; and
miscellaneous drapery hardware, window blinds and shades. Includes wood and
cabinet shops, but not sawmills or planing mills, which are instead included
under "Lumber and Wood Product Manufacturing." The manufacture of household
appliances in included under "Electronics and Equipment Manufacturing."
   Furniture, Furnishings and Appliance Stores (land use). Stores engaged
primarily in selling the following products and related services, including
incidental repair services:
   Draperies;
   Floor coverings;
   Furniture;
   Glass and chinaware;
   Home appliances;
   Home furnishings;
   Home sound systems;
   Interior decorating materials and services;
   Large musical instruments;
   Lawn furniture;
   Movable spas and hot tubs;
   Office furniture;
   Other household electrical and gas appliances;
   Outdoor furniture;
   Refrigerators;
   Stoves;
   Televisions.
   G.   Definitions, "G."
   General Plan. The city of Pismo Beach general plan, including all elements
thereof and all amendments thereto, as adopted by the city council under the
provisions of Government Code Sections 65300 et seq., and referred to in this
Zoning Code as the "general plan."
   General Retail Stores (land use). Stores and shops selling many lines of
merchandise. These stores and lines of merchandise include:
   Artists' supplies;
   Bakeries (retail only);
   Bicycles;
   Books;
   Cameras and photographic supplies;
   Clothing and accessories;
   Department stores;
   Drug and discount stores;
   Dry goods;
   Fabrics and sewing supplies;
   Florists and houseplant stores (indoor sales only--outdoor sales are "Plant
Nurseries");
   General stores;
   Hardware;
   Hobby materials;
   Jewelry;
   Luggage and leather goods;
   Musical instruments, parts and accessories;
   Newsstands;
   Orthopedic supplies;
   Pet stores;
   Religious goods;
   Small wares;
   Specialty shops;
   Sporting goods and equipment;
   Stationery;
   Toys and games;
   Variety stores.
   Gold and Silver Exchange. Any establishment that is engaged in accepting
gold, silver, and/or other precious metals, primarily from jewelry, in exchange
for monies. For establishments that engage in the exchange of monies for
valuable articles other than precious metals, see "pawn shop."
   Golf Courses/Country Clubs (land use). Golf courses, and accessory
facilities and uses including: clubhouses with bar and restaurant, locker and
shower facilities; driving ranges; "pro shops" for on-site sales of golfing
equipment; and golf cart storage and sales facilities.
   Grade.
   1.   Existing Grade. The natural contour of the ground surface on an
individual parcel before any grading, or the building pad elevation resulting
from grading in compliance with approved subdivision improvement plans.
   2.   Finished Grade. The level of the finished surface of the ground at the
completion of all approved grading by a subdivider or developer.
   3.   Site Grade. Site grade is determined as follows:
   a.   For subdivided properties existing as of the time of adoption of the
October 12, 1976 Zoning Ordinance, site grade shall be the existing topography
of each parcel as of October 12, 1976.
   b.   For unsubdivided properties, or parcels subdivided after October 12,
1976, site grade shall be established as being the precise topography of the
parcel at the time of completion of finished grading, as approved by the city.
   H.   Definitions, "H."
   Handcraft Industries, Small-Scale Manufacturing (land use). Establishments
manufacturing and/or assembling small products primarily by hand, including
jewelry, pottery and other ceramics, as well as small glass and metal art and
craft products. Also includes manufacturing establishments not classified in
another major manufacturing group, including: brooms and brushes; buttons,
costume novelties; jewelry; musical instruments; pens, pencils, and other
office and artists' materials; sporting and athletic goods; toys; and other
miscellaneous manufacturing industries.
   Health/Fitness Facilities (land use). Fitness centers, gymnasiums, health
and athletic clubs including indoor sauna, spa or hot tub facilities; indoor
tennis, handball, racquetball, archery and shooting ranges and other indoor
sports activities. Also includes martial arts and dance instruction studios.
   Height, Antenna. The distance from the existing grade at the base of the
antenna or, in the case of a roof-mounted antenna, from the grade at the
exterior base of the building to the highest point of the antenna and any
associated support structure when fully extended.
   Home Occupation (land use). The conduct of a business within a dwelling unit
or residential site, employing occupants of the dwelling, with the business
activity being subordinate to the residential use of the property.
   Homestay. See
Chapter 17.09.
   Hospital. See "Medical Services--Hospitals."
   Hotel or Motel (land use). Facilities with guest rooms or suites, provided
with or without meals or kitchen facilities, rented to the general public for
overnight or other temporary lodging (less than thirty days). Hotels provide
access to most guest rooms from an interior walkway, and typically include a
variety of services in addition to lodging, for example restaurants and meeting
facilities.
   Motels provide access to most guest rooms from an exterior walkway. Also
includes accessory guest facilities including swimming pools, tennis courts,
indoor athletic facilities, accessory retail uses, etc.
   I.   Definitions, "I."
   Inauguration. For the purposes of this title, inauguration of use shall be
either of the following: (a) securing of a building permit for approved
construction projects and construction has commenced; or (b) for subdivisions,
recordation of the final, city-approved map at the county recorder's office.
For the permit to remain valid, construction under the building permit must
successfully complete the first inspection within six months of issuance of the
building permit. A foundation permit shall be treated as equivalent to a
building permit, but grading, demolition, electrical, mechanical or plumbing
permits shall not be considered or treated as building permits.
   Indoor Amusement/Entertainment Facilities (land use). Establishments
providing indoor amusement/entertainment services for a fee or admission
charge, including:
   Bowling alleys;
   Card rooms;
   Coin-operated amusement arcades;
   Dance halls, clubs and ballrooms;
   Electronic game arcades;
   Ice skating and roller skating;
   Pool and billiard rooms as primary uses (see also Chapter XX of the
Municipal Code);
   Four or more electronic games or coin-operated amusements in any
establishment, or a premises where 50 percent or more of the floor area is
occupied by amusement devices, are considered an electronic game arcade as
described above, three or less machines are not considered a land use separate
from the primary use of the site.
   J.   Definitions, "J." No definitions beginning with the letter "J" are used
at this time.
   K.   Definitions, "K." No definitions beginning with the letter "K" are used
at this time.
   L.   Definitions, "L."
   Land Use Permit. Authority granted by the city to use a specified site for a
particular purpose, including site plan and architectural review, use permits
and minor use permits, temporary use permits, variances, and zoning clearances,
as established by Article IV (Land Use and Development Permit Procedures) of
this Zoning Code.
   Large Family Day Care Home (land use). See "Child Day Care Facilities."
   Laundries and Dry Cleaning Plants (land use). Service establishments engaged
primarily in high volume laundry and garment services, including: power
laundries (family and commercial); garment pressing and dry cleaning; linen
supply; diaper service; industrial laundries; carpet and upholstery cleaners.
Does not include laundromats or dry cleaning pick-up stores without dry
cleaning equipment.
   Libraries and Museums (land use). Public or quasi-public facilities
including aquariums, arboretums, art exhibitions, botanical gardens, historic
sites and exhibits, libraries, museums, and planetariums, which are generally
non-commercial in nature. Facilities primarily devoted to meetings and/or
public assembly are instead included under "Clubs, Lodges, and Private Meeting
Halls," "Community Centers," "Religious Places of Worship," "Outdoor Commercial
Recreation," and "Theaters."
   Local Coastal Plan/Local Coastal Program. The following documents comprise
the city of Pismo Beach certified local coastal program, in compliance with the
Coastal Act: the city's general plan/local coastal plan; this Zoning Code; the
zoning map; and any other implementing actions undertaken by the city in
compliance with the Coastal Act.
   Lot or Parcel. A recorded lot or parcel of real property under single
ownership, lawfully created as required by the Subdivision Map Act and city
ordinances, including this Zoning Code, including the following:
   1.   A parcel of real property shown on a subdivision or plat map, required
by the Subdivision Map Act or Article 9, Chapter 1 (Subdivisions) of the
Municipal Code to be recorded before sale of parcels shown on the map or plat,
at the time the map was recorded;
   2.   A parcel of real property that has been issued a certificate of
compliance as provided by Government Code Section 664917.35 and the Article 9,
Chapter 2 (Subdivisions) of the Municipal Code; or
   3.   A parcel of real property not described in (1) or (2) above, provided
the parcel resulted from a separate conveyance or from a decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction which was of record before the requirement for the
filing of the subdivision map by the Subdivision Map Act.
   Types of lots include the following. See Figure 6-3 (Lot Types).
   1.   Corner Lot. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets,
where they intersect at an interior angle of not more than one hundred thirty-
five degrees. If the intersection angle is more than one hundred thirty-five
degrees, the lot is considered an interior lot.
   2.   Flag Lot. A lot having access from the building site to a public street
by means of private right-of-way strip that is owned in fee.
   3.   Interior Lot. A lot abutting only one street.
   4.   Key Lot. An interior lot, the front of which adjoins the side property
line of a corner lot.
   5.   Reverse Corner Lot. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts a key lot.
   6.   Through Lot. A lot with frontage on two generally parallel streets.
   Lot Area. Gross lot area is the total area included within the lot lines of
a lot, exclusive of adjacent dedicated street rights of way. Net lot area is
exclusive of easements, including those for utilities or flood control
channels, which limit the use of the lot.
   Lot Coverage. See "Site Coverage."
   Lot Depth. The average linear distance between the front and the rear lot
lines or the intersection of the two side lot lines if there is no rear line.
See Figure 6-4 (Lot Features). The Director shall determine lot depth for
parcels of irregular configuration.
   Lot Frontage. The boundary of a lot adjacent to a public street right-of-
way.
   Lot Line or Property Line. Any recorded boundary of a lot. Types of lot
lines are as follows (see Figure 6-4 (Lot Features)):
   1.   Front Lot Line. On an interior lot, the property line separating the
parcel from the street. The front lot line on a corner lot is the line with the
shortest frontage. (If the lot lines of a corner lot are equal in length, the
front lot line shall be determined by the director.) On a through lot, both lot
lines are front lot lines and the lot is considered to have no rear lot line.
   2.   Interior Lot Line. Any lot line not abutting a street.
   3.   Rear Lot Line. A property line that does not intersect the front lot
line, which is most distant from and most closely parallel to the front lot
line.
   4.   Side Lot Line. Any lot line that is not a front or rear lot line.
   Lot Width. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines. See Figure 6-4 (Lot Features). The director shall determine lot width
for parcels of irregular shape.
   FIGURE 6-3
LOT TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5826.jpg]
 
   FIGURE 6-4
LOT FEATURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5828.jpg]
 
   M. Definitions, "M."
   Major Wireless Communication Facility. A wireless communication facility
that:
   a.   Is ground-mounted on property not within the public right-of-way; or
   b.   Is ground-mounted within the public right-of-way but does not qualify
as a microcell facility; or
   c.   Is building or roof-mounted and exceeds 10 feet in height and/or
exceeds the maximum height permitted in the zoning district in which the
facility is located.
   Map Act. See "Subdivision Map Act."
   Marijuana Cultivation. The planting, growing, harvesting, drying or
processing of marijuana plants or any part thereof.
   Massage Establishments–Accessory. Any establishment that offers massage
therapy in exchange for compensation as an accessory use. "Massage therapy"
means the skillful application of touch, including but not limited to,
pressure, stroking, kneading, or compression on or movement of the external
surfaces of the body to produce increased awareness, relaxation, pain relief,
injury rehabilitation, or neuromuscular reeducation. Examples of massage
include but are not limited to Swedish massage, sports massage, Shiatsu,
polarity therapy, rolfing, hellerwork, and reflexology.
      "Accessory" for purposes of this section means occupying no more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the following types of primary
uses, as determined via zoning clearance application (See Section
17.42.020):
      A.   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, nurses, physical
therapists, or acupuncturists who are duly licensed to practice their
respective professions in the state.
      B.   Barbers, beauticians, cosmetologists, and estheticians who are duly
licensed under the laws of the state while engaging in practices within the
scope of their licenses.
      C.   Trainers of amateur, semiprofessional, or professional athletes or
athletic teams while engaging in their training responsibilities for and with
athletes; and trainers working in conjunction with a specific athletic event
such as road races, track meets, triathlons, or similar single-occurrence
athletic or recreational events.
      D.   Hotels with seventy-five (75) or more rooms.
      E.   Other uses as approved by the Planning Commission.
   Massage establishments–Primary. Any establishment that offers massage
therapy in exchange for compensation as a primary use. "Massage therapy" means
the skillful application of touch, including but not limited to, pressure,
stroking, kneading, or compression on or movement of the external surfaces of
the body to produce increased awareness, relaxation, pain relief, injury
rehabilitation, or neuromuscular reeducation. Examples of massage include but
are not limited to Swedish massage, sports massage, Shiatsu, polarity therapy,
rolfing, hellerwork, and reflexology.
      "Primary" for purposes of this section means occupying more than twenty-
five percent (25%) of the floor area of the establishment.
   Medical Marijuana Dispensary. A facility where marijuana is made available
for medical purposes in accordance with Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this title, a medical marijuana
dispensary shall not be a permitted use in any zone, and no conditional use
permit shall issue to permit a medical marijuana dispensary to operate in any
zone. A "medical marijuana dispensary" shall not include the following uses, as
long as the location of such uses area is otherwise regulated by this Code or
applicable law: a clinic licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 of Division 2 of the
Health and Safety Code, a health care facility license pursuant to Chapter 2 of
Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a residential care facility for
persons with chronic life- threatening illness licensed pursuant to Chapter
3.01 of the Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a residential care
facility for the elderly licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.2 of the Division 2 of
the Health and Safety Code, a residential hospice, or a home health agency
licensed pursuant to Chapter 8 of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, as
long as any such use complies strictly with applicable California and federal
law.
   Medical Services (land use). Medical service establishments, including the
following.
   1.   Clinics and Laboratories. Facilities primarily engaged in furnishing
outpatient medical, mental health, surgical and other personal health services,
but which are separate from hospitals, including:
   Health management organizations (HMOs);
   Medical and dental laboratories;
   Medical, dental and psychiatric offices;
   Out-patient care facilities;
   Other allied health services;
   Counseling services by other than medical doctors or psychiatrists are
included under "Offices."
   2.   Extended Care. Residential facilities providing nursing and health-
related care as a primary use with in-patient beds, including: board and care
homes; convalescent and rest homes; extended care facilities; skilled nursing
facilities. Long-term personal care facilities that do not emphasize medical
treatment are included under "Residential Care Homes."
   3.   Hospitals. Hospitals and similar facilities engaged primarily in
providing diagnostic services, and extensive medical treatment, including
surgical and other hospital services. These establishments have an organized
medical staff, inpatient beds, and equipment and facilities to provide complete
health care. May include on-site accessory clinics and laboratories, accessory
retail uses and emergency heliports (see the separate definition of "Accessory
Retail Uses").
   4.   Medical, Dental, and Psychiatric Offices. Facilities where individual
medical professionals provide outpatient services. Includes administrative
office space, examination rooms, and patient waiting areas.
   Metal Products Fabrication, Machine and Welding Shops (land use).
Establishments engaged primarily in the assembly of metal parts, including the
following uses that produce metal duct work, tanks, towers, cabinets and
enclosures, metal doors and gates, and similar products.
   Blacksmith and welding shops;
   Sheet metal shops;
   Machine shops and boiler shops.
   Microcell. A wireless communication facility that:
   a.   Contains a maximum of four whip or panel antennas where each whip
antenna does not exceed four inches in diameter and four feet in length and
each panel antenna does not exceed two square feet in surface area;
   b.   Contains a maximum of one microwave antenna no larger than ten square
feet in surface area;
   c.   Has an array of antennas less than ten feet in height;
   d.   Is building or roof-mounted or, if within the public right-of-way, is
located on top of a light pole or telephone pole or a metal precast concrete
monopole (similar in design to a street light pole or street tree); and
   e.   Has a total height, if building or roof-mounted, that does not exceed
the maximum height permitted in the applicable zoning district in which the
facility is located.
   Minor Wireless Communication Facility. A wireless communication facility
that:
   a.   Consists of a microcell; or
   b.   Is building or roof-mounted and is less than ten feet in height and
does not exceed the maximum height permitted in the zoning district in which
the facility is located.
   Mixed Use Residential (land use). The development and use of a site with a
combination of residential and non-residential uses, where the ground floor
street frontage of the structures is reserved for the non-residential uses.
   Mobile Home (land use). A trailer, transportable in one or more sections,
that is certified under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974, which is over eight feet in width and forty feet
in length, with or without a permanent foundation and not including
recreational vehicle, commercial coach or factory-built housing. A mobile home
on a permanent foundation is included under the definition of "Single-Family
Dwellings."
   Mobile Home, Recreational Vehicle, and Boat Sales (land use). Retail
establishments selling and/or renting the following new or used vehicles and
products:
   Boats;
   Campers/camper shells;
   Golf carts;
   Jet skis;
   Mobile homes;
   Motor homes;
   Motorcycles;
   Snowmobiles;
   Travel/recreational trailers;
   Other recreational vehicles;
   May also include repair shops and the sales of parts and accessories,
incidental to vehicle dealerships. Does not include: parts/accessory sales
separate from a vehicle dealership (see "Auto Parts Sales"); or bicycle and
moped sales (see "General Retail Stores").
   Mobile Home Park (land use). Any site that is planned and improved to
accommodate two or more mobile homes used for residential purposes, or on which
two or more mobile home lots are rented, leased, or held out for rent or lease,
or were formerly held out for rent or lease and later converted to a
subdivision, cooperative, condominium, or other form of resident ownership, to
accommodate mobile homes used for residential purposes.
   Multi-Family Dwellings (land use). A building or a portion of a building
used and/or designed as residences for three or more families living
independently of each other. Includes: triplexes, fourplexes (buildings under
one ownership with three or four dwelling units, respectively, in the same
structure) and apartments (five or more units under one ownership in a single
building); townhouse development (three or more attached single-family
dwellings where no unit is located over another unit); senior citizen multi-
family housing; and common ownership, attached unit projects including
condominiums. Duplexes are separately defined.
   Municipal Code. The city of Pismo Beach Municipal Code, as it may be amended
from time to time by the council.
   N.   Definitions, "N."
   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). The National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System established by Section 402 of the Clean
Water Act, 33 USC Section 1342, as it may be amended from time to time.
   Negative Declaration. A statement describing the reasoning that a proposed
action will not have a significant adverse effect on the environment, in
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   Night club. See "Bars and Night Clubs."
   Nonconforming Parcel. A parcel that was legally created prior to the
adoption of this Zoning Code and which does not conform to current code
provisions/standards (e.g., access, area or width requirements, etc.)
prescribed for the zoning district in which the parcel is located.
   Nonconforming Structure. A structure that was legally constructed prior to
the adoption of this Zoning Code and which does not conform to current code
provisions/standards (e.g., open space, distance between structures, etc.)
prescribed for the zoning district in which the structure is located.
   Nonconforming Use. A use of a structure (either conforming or nonconforming)
or land that was legally established and maintained prior to the adoption of
this Zoning Code and which does not conform to current code provisions
governing allowable land uses for the zoning district in which the use is
located.
   NPDES.   See "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System."
   O.   Definitions, "O."
   Occupancy. All or a portion of a structure occupied by one tenant.
   Offices (land use). Offices include the following types.
   1.   Administrative/Business. Establishments providing direct services to
clients, including insurance agencies, real estate offices, post offices (not
including bulk mailing distribution centers, which are included under "Vehicle
and Freight Terminals."
   2.   Production. Office-type facilities occupied by businesses engaged in
the production of intellectual property. These uses include:
   Advertising agencies;
   Architectural, engineering, planning and surveying services;
   Computer software production and;
   Programming services;
   Educational, scientific and research;
   Organizations;
   Media postproduction services;
   Photography and commercial art studios;
   Writers and artists offices.
   3.   Professional. Professional or government offices including:
   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services;
   Attorneys;
   Counseling services;
   Court reporting services;
   Data processing services;
   Detective agencies and similar services;
   Employment, stenographic, secretarial and;
   Word processing services;
   Government offices;
   Literary and talent agencies;
   Management and public relations services.
   4.   Temporary. A mobile home, recreational vehicle or modular unit used as
a temporary office facility. Temporary offices may include: construction
supervision offices on a construction site or off-site construction yard; a
temporary on-site real estate office for a development project; or a temporary
business office in advance of permanent facility construction.
   5.   Temporary Real Estate. The temporary use of a dwelling unit within a
residential development project as a sales office for the units on the same
site, which is converted to residential use at the conclusion of its office
use.
   The above do not include: medical offices (see "Medical Services--Clinics
and Laboratories") or offices that are incidental and accessory to another
business or sales activity that is the primary use. Incidental offices that are
customarily accessory to another use are allowed as part of an approved primary
use.
   Organizational Houses (land use). Residential lodging houses operated by
educational institutions and/or membership organizations for their members and
not open to the general public. Includes convents, dormitories, fraternity and
sorority houses, monasteries, and religious residential retreats.
   Outdoor Commercial Recreation Facilities (land use). Facilities for various
outdoor participant sports and types of recreation where a fee is charged for
use, including:
   Amphitheaters;
   Amusement and theme parks;
   Drive-in theaters;
   Go-cart and miniature auto race tracks;
   Golf driving ranges separate from golf courses;
   Health and athletic club outdoor facilities;
   Miniature golf courses;
   Motorcycle racing and drag strips;
   Race tracks;
   Skateboard parks;
   Stadiums and coliseums;
   Swim and tennis clubs;
   Tennis courts;
   Water slides;
   Zoos;
   May also include commercial facilities customarily associated with the above
outdoor commercial recreational uses, including bars and restaurants, video
game arcades, etc.
   Outdoor Retail Sales and Activities (land use). Permanent or repeating
outdoor sales and rental establishments including lumber and other material
sales yards, newsstands, outdoor facilities for the sale or rental of other
vehicles/equipment, and other uses where the business is not conducted entirely
within a structure.
   Outdoor Retail Sales, Temporary (land use). Temporary outdoor retail
operations including:
   Christmas trees, pumpkins or the sale of other seasonal items;
   Farmers' markets;
   Semi-annual sales of art/handcrafted items in conjunction with community
festivals or art shows;
   Sidewalk or parking lot sales longer than one weekend;
   Retail sales from individual vehicles in temporary locations outside the
public right-of-way.
   P.   Definitions, "P."
   Parcel. See "Lot, or Parcel."
   Parking Facilities/Vehicle Storage (land use). Service establishments in the
business of storing operative cars, trucks, buses, recreational vehicles, and
other motor vehicles for clients. Includes both day use and long-term public
and commercial garages, parking lots and structures, except when accessory to a
primary use. (All primary uses are considered to include any customer or public
use off-street parking required by the Zoning Code.) Includes sites where
vehicles are stored for rental or leasing. Does not include dismantling yards
(classified in "Recycling Facilities--Scrap and Dismantling Yards").
   Parks and Playgrounds (land use). Public parks, play lots, playgrounds, and
athletic fields for non-commercial neighborhood or community use, including
tennis courts. If privately-owned, the same facilities are included under the
definition of "Private Residential Recreation Facilities."
   Paseo. A pedestrian walkway, typically within a building or building
complex, that is unroofed and open to the sky.
   Pawn Shop. Any establishment that engages in the business of receiving
jewelry, precious stones, valuables, firearms, clothing, personal property, or
any other article or articles in pledge for loans, or as security, or in pawn
for the repayment of monies, and exacts an interest for such loans, or that
purchases articles or personal property and agrees to resell such articles so
purchased to the vendors thereof, or their assigns, at prices agreed upon at or
before the time of such purchases, respectively. Does not include banks, trust
companies, or bond brokers, who may otherwise be regulated by law and
authorized to deal in commercial papers, shares of stock, bonds, and other
certificates of value.
   For businesses that engage primarily in the exchange of monies for precious
metals, see "Gold and Silver Exchange."
   Person. Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association; city, county, state, or district; and
includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or other similar representative
thereof.
   Pet Shops (land use). Retail stores selling birds, cats, dogs, fish, and
other common household pets, including supplies for the care and feeding of the
animals sold. This use may include pet grooming, but not the boarding of
animals other than those for sale. See "Veterinarians, Animal Hospitals,
Kennels."
   Planning Commission. The planning commission of the city of Pismo Beach,
appointed by the Pismo Beach city council as provided by Government Code
Section 65101, referred to throughout this Zoning Code as the "commission."
   Plant Nurseries and Garden Supply Stores (land use). Commercial agricultural
establishments engaged in the production of ornamental plants and other nursery
products, grown under cover or outdoors. Includes stores selling these
products, and commercial scale greenhouses. The sale of house plants or other
nursery products entirely within a building is also included under "General
Retail Stores." Home greenhouses are included under "Residential Accessory Uses
and Structures."
   Plastics, Other Synthetics, and Rubber Product Manufacturing (land use). The
manufacture of rubber products including: tires; rubber footwear; mechanical
rubber goods; heels and soles; flooring; and other rubber products from
natural, synthetic or reclaimed rubber. Also includes establishments engaged
primarily in manufacturing tires. Also includes: establishments engaged in
molding primary plastics for other manufacturers, and manufacturing
miscellaneous finished plastics products; fiberglass manufacturing, and
fiberglass application services. Establishments engaged primarily in recapping
and retreading automobile tires are classified in "Vehicle Services--Major
Repair/Body Work."
   Primary Dwelling Unit. A single dwelling on a lot that contains no other
dwellings, other than an accessory dwelling unit as defined in this section.
   Primary Structure. A structure that accommodates the primary use of the
site.
   Primary Use. The main purpose for which a site is developed, including the
activities that are conducted on the site during a majority of the hours during
which activities occur, and which occupies more than fifty percent of floor
area and/or site area.
   Printing and Publishing (land use). Establishments engaged in printing by
letterpress, lithography, gravure, screen, offset, or electrostatic
(xerographic) copying; and other establishments serving the printing trade
including bookbinding, typesetting, engraving, photoengraving and
electrotyping. This use also includes establishments that publish newspapers,
books and periodicals; establishments manufacturing business forms and binding
devices. "Quick printing" services are included in the definition of "Business
Support Services."
   Private Residential Recreation Facilities (land use). Privately-owned, non-
commercial outdoor recreation facilities provided for members or project/
neighborhood residents, including swim and tennis clubs, park and sport court
facilities. Does not include golf courses/country clubs, which are separately
defined.
   Public Safety Facilities (land use). Facilities operated by public agencies
including fire stations, other fire prevention and fire fighting facilities,
police and sheriff substations and headquarters, including interim
incarceration facilities.
   Public Utility Facilities (land use). Fixed-base structures and facilities
serving as junction points for transferring utility services from one
transmission voltage to another or to local distribution and service voltages.
These uses include any of the following facilities that are not exempted from
land use permit requirements by Government Code Section 53091:
   Corporation and maintenance yards;
   Electrical substations and switching stations;
   Natural gas regulating and distribution facilities;
   Public water system wells, treatment plants and storage;
   Telephone switching facilities;
   Wastewater treatment plants, settling ponds and disposal fields;
   These uses do not include office or customer service centers (classified in
"Offices"), or equipment and material storage yards.
   Q.   Definitions, "Q." No definitions beginning with the letter "Q" are used
at this time.
   R.   Definitions, "R."
   Recreational Vehicle (RV). A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, or
camping trailer, with or without motive power, originally designed for human
habitation for recreational, emergency, or other occupancy, which meets all of
the following criteria:
   1.   It contains less than three hundred twenty square feet of internal
living room area, excluding built-in equipment, including wardrobe, closets,
cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures, and bath or toilet rooms;
   2.   It contains four hundred square feet or less of gross area measured at
maximum horizontal projections;
   3.   It is built on a single chassis; and
   4.   It is either self-propelled, truck-mounted, or permanently towable on
the highways without a towing permit.
   Recreational Vehicle Park (land use). A site where one or more lots are
used, or are intended to be used, by campers with recreational vehicles or
tents. Recreational vehicle parks may include public restrooms, water, sewer,
and electric hookups to each lot and are intended as a higher density, more
intensively developed use than campgrounds. May include accessory retail uses
where they are clearly incidental and intended to serve RV park patrons only.
   Recycling Facilities (land use). This land use type includes a variety of
facilities involved with the collection, sorting and processing of recyclable
materials.
   1.   Collection Facility. A center where the public may donate, redeem or
sell recyclable materials, which may include the following:
   a.   Reverse vending machine(s);
   b.   Small collection facilities which occupy an area of three hundred fifty
square feet or less and may include:
   (1) A mobile unit;
   (2) Bulk reverse vending machines or a grouping of reverse vending machines
occupying more than fifty square feet; and
   (3) Kiosk-type units which may include permanent structures.
   c.   Large collection facilities which occupy an area of more than three
hundred fifty square feet and/or include permanent structures.
   2.   Mobile Recycling Unit. An automobile, truck, trailer, or van used for
the collection of recyclable materials, carrying bins, boxes, or other
containers.
   3.   Processing Facility. A structure or enclosed space used for the
collection and processing of recyclable materials for shipment, or to an end-
user's specifications, by such means as baling, briquetting, cleaning,
compacting, crushing, flattening, grinding, mechanical sorting, remanufacturing
and shredding. Processing facilities include the following types, both of which
are included under the definition of "Scrap and Dismantling Yards:"
   a.   Light processing facility occupies an area of under forty-five thousand
square feet of collection, processing and storage area, and averages two
outbound truck shipments each day. Light processing facilities are limited to
baling, briquetting, compacting, crushing, grinding, shredding and sorting of
source separated recyclable materials sufficient to qualify as a certified
processing facility. A light processing facility shall not shred, compact, or
bale ferrous metals other than food and beverage containers; and
   b.   A heavy processing facility is any processing facility other than a
light processing facility.
   4.   Recycling Facility. A center for the collection and/or processing of
recyclable materials. A "certified" recycling or processing facility is
certified by the California Department of Conservation as meeting the
requirements of the California Beverage Container Recycling and Litter
Reduction Act of 1986. A recycling facility does not include storage containers
located on a residentially, commercially or industrially designated site used
solely for the recycling of material generated on the site. See "Collection
Facility" above.
   5.   Recycling or Recyclable Material. Reusable domestic containers and
other materials which can be reconstituted, remanufactured, or reused in an
altered form, including glass, metals, paper and plastic. Recyclable material
does not include refuse or hazardous materials.
   6.   Reverse Vending Machine. An automated mechanical device which accepts
at least one or more types of empty beverage containers and issues a cash
refund or a redeemable credit slip with a value not less than the container's
redemption value, as determined by State law. These vending machines may accept
aluminum cans, glass and plastic bottles, and other containers.
   A bulk reverse vending machine is a reverse vending machine that is larger
than fifty square feet, is designed to accept more than one container at a
time, and issues a cash refund based on total weight instead of by container.
   7.   Scrap and Dismantling Yards. Outdoor establishments primarily engaged
in assembling, breaking up, sorting, and the temporary storage and distribution
of recyclable or reusable scrap and waste materials, including auto wreckers
engaged in dismantling automobiles for scrap, and the incidental wholesale or
retail sales of parts from those vehicles. Includes light and heavy processing
facilities for recycling (see the definitions above). Does not include: places
where these activities are conducted entirely within buildings; pawn shops, and
other secondhand stores; the sale of operative used cars; or landfills or other
waste disposal sites.
   Religious Places of Worship (land use). Religious facilities operated by
organizations for worship, or the promotion of religious activities, including
churches, synagogues, mosques, etc., and religious schools; and accessory uses
on the same site, including living quarters for ministers and staff, and child
day care facilities where authorized by the same type of land use permit
required for the church itself. Other establishments maintained by religious
organizations, including full-time educational institutions, hospitals and
other potentially related operations (including a recreational camp) are
classified according to their respective activities.
   Repair Services--Non-Vehicular. Establishments which repair consumer
electronics equipment, computers, appliances, and similar products.
   Resale Establishment. Any establishment that primarily resells common
contemporary or antique household items, clothing, consumer products,
appliances, and similar products, including antique stores, consignment stores,
and general used merchandise stores such as "thrift," "Salvation Army," and
"Goodwill" stores. Does not include pawn shops.
   Research and Development (land use). Indoor facilities for scientific
research, and the design, development and testing of electrical, electronic,
magnetic, optical and mechanical components in advance of product
manufacturing, that are not associated with a manufacturing facility on the
same site. Includes chemical and biotechnology research and development. Does
not include computer software companies (see "Offices--Production"), soils and
other materials testing laboratories (see "Business Support Services"), or
medical laboratories (see "Medical Services--Clinics and Labs").
   Residential Accessory Uses and Structures (land use). Any or use and/or
structure that is customarily a part of, and clearly incidental and secondary
to, a residence and does not change the character of the residential use. These
uses include the following detached accessory structures, and other similar
structures normally associated with a residential use of property:
   Garages;
   Gazebos;
   Greenhouses;
   Spas and hot tubs;
   Storage sheds;
   Studios;
   Swimming pools;
   Tennis and other on-site sport courts;
   Workshops;
   Also includes the indoor storage of automobiles (including their incidental
restoration and repair), personal recreational vehicles and other personal
property, accessory to a residential use. Does not include home satellite dish
and other receiving antennas for earth-based TV and radio broadcasts; see
"Communications Facilities."
   Restaurant, Counter Service (land use). A retail business where customers
are served prepared food from a walk-up ordering counter for either on- or off-
premise consumption. A restaurant with drive-up or drive-through service is
instead included under the definition of "Drive-in and Drive-Thru Sales."
   Restaurant, Table Service (land use). A retail business selling food and
beverages prepared on the site, where most customers are served food at tables
for on-premise consumption. These restaurants may also provide food on a take-
out basis where take-out is clearly secondary to table service.
   Review Authority. The individual or official city body (the city planner,
planning commission, or city council) identified by this Zoning Code as having
the responsibility and authority to review, and approve or disapprove the
permit applications described in Article IV (Administration).
   S.   Definitions, "S."
   Schools (land use). Public and private educational institutions, including:
   Boarding schools;
   Business, secretarial, and vocational schools;
   Community colleges, colleges and universities;
   Elementary, middle, and junior high schools;
   Establishments providing courses by mail;
   High schools;
   Military academies;
   Professional schools (law, medicine, etc.);
   Seminaries/religious ministry training facilities;
   Also includes specialized non-degree granting schools offering instruction
in:
   Art;
   Ballet and other dance;
   Computers and electronics;
   Drama;
   Driver education;
   Language;
   Music;
   Also includes facilities, institutions and conference centers that offer
specialized programs in personal growth and development, including fitness,
environmental awareness, arts, communications, and management. Does not include
pre-schools and child day care facilities (see "Child Day Care Facilities").
   Secondary Dwelling Unit. A subordinate dwelling unit added to, or created
within, or detached from a single-family dwelling (primary dwelling unit), but
on the same parcel, that provides basic requirements for independent living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   Secondary Residential Units (land use). A second permanent dwelling that is
accessory to a primary dwelling on the same site. A secondary residential unit
provides complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons,
including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking,
sanitation, and parking.
   Secondary Use. A land use which occurs on the same site with a primary use,
where the secondary use occupies less than fifty percent of the floor area and/
or site area, is accessory and incidental to the primary use, and is not the
main purpose for which the site is developed.
   Service Station (land use). A retail business selling gasoline or other
motor vehicle fuels, which may also provide services which are incidental to
fuel services. These secondary services may include vehicle engine maintenance
and repair, towing and trailer rental services. Does not include the storage or
repair of wrecked or abandoned vehicles, vehicle painting, body or fender work,
or the rental of vehicle storage or parking spaces.
   Setback. The distance by which a structure, parking area or other
development feature must be separated from a lot line, other structure or
development feature, or the edge of the coastal bluff. Setbacks from private
streets are measured from the edge of the easement. See also "Yard." Figure 6-
5 (Setbacks) shows the location of front, side, street side, rear, and interior
setbacks.
   FIGURE 6-5
SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5830.jpg]
 
   Shopping Center (land use). Primarily retail commercial and/or mixed use
sites with eight or more separate businesses sharing common private pedestrian
and parking areas.
   Short-term rental. See
Chapter 17.09.
   Single-Family Dwellings (land use). A building designed for and/or occupied
exclusively by one family. Also includes factory-built, modular housing units,
constructed in compliance with the Uniform Building Code (UBC), and mobile
homes/manufactured housing on permanent foundations. May include the rental of
rooms within a dwelling also occupied by the property owner or a primary
tenant.
   Site. A parcel or adjoining parcels under single ownership or single
control, considered a unit for the purposes of development or other use.
   Site Coverage. The percentage of total site area occupied by structures.
Structure/building coverage includes the primary structure, all accessory
structures (e.g., carports, garages, patio covers, storage sheds, trash
dumpster enclosures, etc.) and architectural features (e.g., chimneys,
balconies, decks above the first floor, porches, stairs, etc.). Structure/
building coverage is measured from exterior wall to exterior wall. See Figure
6-6 (Site Coverage).
   FIGURE 6-6
SITE COVERAGE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/447cc7f0fbab66b1eec941b80a005ae7d4ce20e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5832.jpg]
 
   Slope. The average slope of a lot expressed as a percent, which is
calculated as follows:
   S = (L x I x 100) / A Where: S = The average slope of natural ground
expressed as a percent. I = The topographic contour interval in feet (i.e.,
two-foot contour intervals, five-foot contour intervals, etc.). L = The sum of
the length of the contour lines expressed in feet. A = The area of the lot
expressed in square feet.
   This definition assumes that slope calculations are based on accurate
topographic survey maps drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals one
hundred feet, with contour lines at maximum ten-foot intervals for ground slope
over fifteen percent, and at five-foot intervals for ground slope of fifteen
percent or less.
   Small Family Day Care Homes (land use). See "Child Day Care Facilities."
   Smoke Shop. Any establishment that either: (1) devotes more than fifteen
percent (15%) of its floor space or (2) devotes at least sixteen (16)
cumulative cubic feet of shelf space to smoking paraphernalia. For purposes of
this section, "smoking paraphernalia" means paraphernalia relating to the
smoking of tobacco, cannabis, or other psychoactive substances, or inhalation
of vapor containing nicotine, tetrahydrocannabinol, or other psychoactive
substances, including but not limited to pipes, rolling papers, grinders,
lighters, vape pens/e-cigarettes, cigarettes, cigars, chew, and loose tobacco.
   Specified Anatomical Areas. Specified anatomical areas shall mean and
include any of the following:
   1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic
region, buttocks or anus, and female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areola;
   2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered; and
   3.   Any device, costume or covering that simulates any of the body parts
included in paragraphs (1) or (2) above, even if completely and opaquely
covered.
   Specified Sexual Activities. Specified sexual activities shall mean and
include any of the following, whether performed directly or indirectly through
clothing or other covering:
   1.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breast;
   2.   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation,
or sodomy;
   3.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; and
   4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the other
activities described in paragraphs (1) through (3) above.
   Stealth Facility. Any communication facility which is designed to blend into
the surrounding environment, typically one that is architecturally integrated
into a building or other concealing structure. Also, referred to as concealed
antennas.
   Storage Yards (land use). The outdoor storage of various materials and/or
equipment, as the primary use of the site. Includes contractor's storage yards,
equipment storage yards, etc. Does not include recycling facilities, auto
wrecking, etc., which are instead included in "Recycling Facilities--Scrap and
Dismantling Yards."
   Storage, Accessory. The storage of various materials as part of another land
use, where the storage activity and areas are clearly subordinate to the
primary non-storage use of the site.
   Storage, Personal Storage Facility (Mini-Storage) (land use). A structure or
group of structures containing generally small, individual, compartmentalized
stalls or lockers rented as individual storage spaces and characterized by low
parking demand.
   Street. A public thoroughfare accepted by the city, which affords principal
means of access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive,
lane, boulevard, highway, road, and any other thoroughfare except an alley as
defined in this subsection.
   Street Line. The boundary between a street right-of-way and property.
   Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
attachment to the ground or attachment to something located on the ground. For
the purposes of this Zoning Code, the term "structure" includes "buildings."
   Structure, Primary. See "Primary Structure."
   Studios for Art, Photography, etc. (land use). Facilities for: individual
and group instruction and training in painting, sculpture, photography, and
other graphic arts; production rehearsal; photography, and the processing of
photographs produced only by users of the studio facilities.
   Subdivision. The division, by any subdivider, of any unit or portion of land
shown on the latest equalized San Luis Obispo County assessment roll as a unit
or contiguous units, for the purpose of sale, lease or financing, whether
immediate or future. Property shall be considered as contiguous units, even if
it is separated by roads, streets, utility easement or railroad rights-of-way.
Subdivision includes a condominium project, as defined in Section 950 of the
Civil Code, a community apartment project, as defined in Section 11004 of the
Business and Professions Code, or the conversion of five or more existing
dwelling units to a stock cooperative, as defined in Section 11003.2 of the
Business and Professions Code.
   Subdivision Map Act, or Map Act. Article II, Title 7 of the California
Government Code, commencing with Section 66410 as presently constituted, and
any amendments to those provisions.
   T.   Definitions, "T."
   Tattoo Establishment. A commercial land use where permanent marking or
coloring of the skin is performed by pricking in coloring matter or by
producing scars by use of heat, blades, or needles, and which is conducted in
exchange for financial or other valuable consideration. Does not include the
application of permanent cosmetics (permanent makeup) or tattooing when applied
by a licensed dermatologist on premises licensed as a dermatological office.
   Telecommunications Facilities (land use). Public, commercial and private
electromagnetic and photoelectrical transmission, broadcast, repeater and
receiving stations for radio, television, telegraph, telephone, cellular
telephone, and data network communications; including commercial earth stations
for satellite-based communications. Includes antennas, towers, commercial
satellite dish antennas, and equipment buildings. Does not include telephone,
telegraph and cable television transmission facilities utilizing hard-wired or
direct cable connections (see "Pipelines and Utility Lines").
   Theaters, Motion Picture (land use). Single- and multi-screen theaters where
motion pictures are shown.
   Top of Bluff. See "Blufftop."
   Transient Lodging or Rental. Any structure, or any portion of any structure,
that is occupied or intended or designed by persons for periods of fewer than
thirty days or one month, whichever is shorter.
   U.   Definitions, "U."
   Unit. See "Dwelling unit."
   Use. The purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged,
intended, occupied, or maintained.
   V.   Definitions, "V."
   Vacation Club. A vacation club is a transient visitor lodging use that is
intended or principally available for occupancy by its membership rather than
the general public, where members do not have an ownership interest in a
specific unit.
   Vacation Rental. Any structure, as defined in the building code adopted in
Section 15.04.010 of this code, which exists, is constructed, or which is
maintained or used upon any premises for the purpose of transient lodging,
which consists of four or fewer separate transient rental units. As used
herein, “transient” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section
3.20.020 of this code.
   Variance. A discretionary entitlement that may waive or relax the
development standards of this Zoning Code, in compliance with 17.42.070
(Variances).
   Vehicle Services (land use). The repair, alteration, restoration, towing,
painting, cleaning (including self-service and attended car washes), or
finishing of automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, boats and other
vehicles as a primary use, including the incidental wholesale and retail sale
of vehicle parts as an accessory use. This use includes the following
categories.
   1.   Major Repair/Body Work. Repair facilities dealing with entire vehicles.
These establishments provide towing, collision repair, other body work, and
painting services; and also include tire recapping establishments.
   2.   Maintenance/Minor Repair. Minor facilities specialize in limited
aspects of repair and maintenance (e.g., muffler and radiator shops, tire sales
and installation, quick-lube, etc.).
   Does not include automobile parking (see "Parking Facilities/Vehicle
Storage"), repair shops that are part of a vehicle dealership on the same site
(see "Auto and Vehicle Sales," and "Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle
Sales"); automobile service stations, which are separately defined; or
automobile dismantling yards, which are included under "Recycling -Scrap and
Dismantling Yards."
   Veterinary Clinics, Animal Hospitals, Kennels, Boarding (land use). Office
and indoor medical treatment facilities used by veterinarians, including large
and small animal veterinary clinics, and animal hospitals. Also includes
commercial facilities for the keeping, grooming, boarding or maintaining of
four or more dogs four months of age or older, or four or more cats for
commercial purposes, except for dogs or cats in pet shops.
   W.   Definitions, "W."
   Warehouse Retail Stores (land use). Retail stores that emphasize the
packaging and sale of products in large quantities or volumes, some at
discounted prices, where products are typically displayed in their original
shipping containers. Sites and buildings are usually large and industrial in
character. Patrons may or may not be required to pay membership fees.
   Warehousing, Wholesaling and Distribution (land use). These facilities
include the following.
   1.   Warehousing. Facilities for the storage of farm products, furniture,
household goods, or other commercial goods of any nature. Includes cold
storage.
   Does not include: warehouse, storage or mini-storage facilities offered for
rent or lease to the general public (see "Storage, Personal Storage
Facilities"); warehouse facilities in which the primary purpose of storage is
for wholesaling and distribution (see "Wholesaling and Distribution"); or
terminal facilities for handling freight (see "Vehicle and Freight Terminals").
   2.   Wholesaling and Distribution. Establishments engaged in selling
merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional, farm, or
professional business users; or to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or
brokers in buying merchandise for or selling merchandise to such persons or
companies. Includes such establishments as:
   Agents, merchandise or commodity brokers, and commission merchants;
   Assemblers, buyers and associations engaged in the cooperative marketing of
farm products;
   Merchant wholesalers;
   Stores primarily selling electrical, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
supplies and equipment;
   Wireless Communication Facility. A structure that supports antennas,
microwave dishes, and other related equipment that sends and/or receives
transmissions for cellular telephone, personal communication services (PCS),
and other commercial communications services.
   X.   Definitions, "X." No definitions beginning with the letter "X" are used
at this time.
   Y.   Definitions, "Y."
   Yard. An area between a lot line and a setback, unobstructed and unoccupied
from the ground upward, except for projections permitted by this Zoning Code.
See
Chapter 17.22 (Setback Requirements and Exceptions) and Figure 6-5 (Setbacks).
   1.   Front Yard. An area extending across the full width of the lot between
the front lot line and the required setback.
   2.   Rear Yard. An area extending the full width of the lot between a rear
lot line and the required setback.
   3.   Side Yard. An area extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the nearest side lot line and the required setback.
   Z.   Definitions, "Z."
   Zoning Code. The city of Pismo Beach Zoning Code, Title 17 of the Pismo
Beach Municipal Code, referred to herein as "this Zoning Code."
   Zoning District. Any of the residential, commercial, industrial, special-
purpose, or combining districts established by Article II of this Zoning Code
(Zoning Districts and Allowable Land Uses), within which certain land uses are
allowed or prohibited, and certain site planning and development standards are
established (e.g., setbacks, height limits, site coverage requirements, etc.).
(Ord. O-2019- 007 §§ 5, 6, 2019; Ord. O-2018-011 § 9, 2018; Ord. O-2018-007 §
4, 2018; Ord. O-2016-007 § 1 (part), 2016; Ord. O-2016-003 § 3, 2016; Ord. O-
2014-006 § 2 (part), 2014; Ord. O-2011-004 § 2 (part), 2011; Ord. O-2010-001 §
2 (part), 2010; Ord. 07-05 § 3 (Exh. A (part)), 2007; Ord. 06-02 § 5, 2006;
Ord. 05-02 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2005; Ord. 04-10 § 1 (Att. A (part)), 2004;
Ord. 03-04 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003; Ord. 03-03 § 2 (Exh. B (part)), 2003)
Tables
Files listed below require Adobe Acrobat Reader 3.0 or later.
STATUTORY REFERENCES
Statutory_References
PRIOR CODE CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE
Prior Code Cross-Reference Table
ORDINANCE LIST AND DISPOSITION TABLE
Ordinance
Number
184   Park and Recreation Land Requirements (Repealed by 94-02)
251   Amends § 16.70.070, subdivisions (Repealed by 94-02)
270   Condominium conversion (
16.64)
276   Adds Ch. 16.42, subdivisions (
16.42)
289   Amends § 16.70.070, subdivisions (Repealed by 94-02)
299   Subdivision regulations (
16.12,
16.16,
16.20,
16.22,
16.24,
16.26,
16.28,
16.32,
16.36,
16.40,
16.48,
16.50,
16.52,
16.54,
16.56,
16.58,
16.60,
16.62)
315   Adds Ch. 5.05, arts and crafts shows (
5.05)
332   Refunds to subdividers (
16.49)
337   Amends prior code § 17.075.020, zoning (Not codified)
345   Amends § 16.36.030, subdivisions (
16.36)
85-11   Adds § 16.48.075 and repeals and replaces § 16.48.070, subdivisions (
16.48)
86-2   Amends §§ 5.04.380, 6.12.020(A) and 16.36.070(C) and renumbers §§
6.12.021 and 6.12.022 to be 6.24.050(A) and 6.24.050(B); repeals Ch. 5.28 and
§§ 9.52.160 and 15.12.050(B), repeals Ch. 5.28 and §§ 9.52.160 and 15.12.050
(B), various provisions (
16.36)
86-4   Adds Ch. 16.27 and amends § 16.16.150, subdivisions (
16.16,
16.27)
86-9   Adds Ch. 16.46, subdivisions (
16.46)
86-14   Fees and payback procedures for the South Palisades Planning Area (
16.47)
86-17   Adds Ch. 16.72, subdivisions (
16.72)
87-7   Adds § 16.48.065 and amends §§ 16.40.060 and 16.40.070(C), subdivisions
(
16.40,
16.48)
87-9   Extends Ord. 87-4, prohibiting issuance of permits for concurrent sale
of alcoholic beverages and gasoline (Special)
87-10   Repeals and replaces prior code § 5.04.160; repeals §§ 5.04.170,
5.04.180, 5.04.200, 5.04.250, 5.04.260, 5.04.285, 5.04.420 and 5.04.499,
business licenses (
5.04)
87-11   Amends prior code § 13.16.040, public facilities charge (
13.16)
87-12   Repeals prior code §§ 10.08.010 and 10.08.020, parking (Repealer)
87-13   Establishes redevelopment agency (2.28) (Chapter 2.28 repealed by O-
2020-001)
87-14   Amends prior code § 9.44.010, alcoholic beverage consumption in public
places (
9.04)
87-15   Rezone; repeals Ord. 87-3 (Special)
87-16   Rezone; repeals Ord. 86-10 (Special)
87-17   Amends prior code § 17.078.020(10), grading; repeals Ord. 87-8 (
17.078)
87-18   Flood damage prevention ordinance (Repealed by O-2008-006)
87-19   Adds prior code § 9.52.205, beach regulations (
12.20)
88-01   Adds prior code § 9.44.010(C), alcoholic beverage consumption in public
places (
9.04)
88-02   Adds prior code Ch. 3.36, emergency response and enforcement fees (
3.36)
88-03   Amends prior code § 5.04.060, business licenses (
5.04)
88-04   Amends prior code § 17.121.155, prohibition of off-site vending (
17.121)
88-05   Adds prior code §§ 17.006.0183 and 17.006.0243, 1983 zoning (
17.006)
88-06   Amends prior code § 3.28.070, transient occupancy tax (
3.20)
88-07   Adds prior code § 17.069.030, 1983 zoning (Not codified)
88-08   Amends § 17.069.020, 1983 zoning (
17.069)
88-09   Moratorium on new development applications pending water supply review
(Repealed by 90-16)
88-10   Amends § 17.078.020, grading and prior code § 18.08.030, construction (
17.078)
88-11   Adds prior code § 16.74, refunds to subdividers (Not codified)
88-12   Amends prior code §§ 9.52.050, 9.52.080, 9.52.100, 9.52.150, 9.52.160,
9.52.180, 9.52.200 and 9.52.210; repeals prior code §§ 9.52.060, 9.52.110 and
9.52.170, beach regulations (Repealed by 95-05)
88-13   Adopts five cities redevelopment plan (Special)
88-14   Increases Constitutional appropriation limit from proceeds of taxes
(Special)
88-15   Adds prior code Ch. 10.10, preferential parking areas (
12.24)
88-16   Adds § 17.066.020, 1983 zoning (
17.066)
88-17   Amends Ord. 88-13, five cities redevelopment plan (Not codified)
88-18   Amends Ord. 88-13, five cities redevelopment plan (Special)
88-19   Adds prior code § 2.28.030, law enforcement officers (
2.40)
89-01   Adds prior code § 9.84.100, dangerous weapons (
9.16)
89-02   Amends prior code § 2.20.030, planning commission (
2.20)
89-03   Adopts program for city payment of annual assessments in hardship cases
in South Palisades assessment district (3.32) (Chapter 3.32 repealed by O-2020-
001)
89-04   Moratorium on approval of certain annexations, subdivisions and land
uses pending review and revision of general plan/local coastal plan (Special)
89-05   Building permit fees (Not codified)
89-06   Building permit fees (Repealed by 93-01)
89-07   Extends Ord. 89-04, moratorium on approval of certain annexations,
subdivisions and land uses pending review and revision of general plan/local
coastal plan (Special)
89-08   Extends interim fees provisions of Ord. 89-05, building permit fees
(Not codified)
89-09   Extends Ords. 89-05 and 89-08, building permit fees (Not codified)
89-10   Development agreement (Special)
89-10A   Amends city contract with California Public Employees' Retirement
System (Special)
89-11   Amends city contract with California Public Employees' Retirement
System (Special)
89-12   Amends § 5 of Ord. 89-04, moratorium on approval of certain
annexations, subdivisions and land uses pending review and revision of general
plan/local coastal plan (Special)
89-13   Amends § 1 of Ord. 89-06, building permit fees (Repealed by 93-01)
89-14   Adds prior code § 10.08.005; repeals §§ 10.08.010, 10.08.020, 10.08.030
and 10.08.040, parking (
10.08)
89-15   Establishes neighborhood planning area, assigns fees pursuant Ord. 89-
6, refund disposition, building permit fees (Repealed by 93-01)
89-16   Amends § 17.069.020, 1983 zoning (
17.069)
89-17   Amends prior code §§ 3.28.020(F) and 3.28.150, transient occupancy tax
(
3.20)
89-18   Development agreement (Special)
89-19   Emergency restrictions on development (Repealed by 93-04)
89-20   Adds prior code Ch. 8.44, filming permits (
5.44)
89-21   Amends prior code Title 15, buildings and construction (
15.12,
15.28,
15.32)
90-01   Adds prior code §§ 17.051.030 and 17.054.040, 1983 zoning (
17.051,
17.054)
90-02   Amends general plan (Not codified)
90-03   Amends prior code §§ 15.01.140(b), 15.30.070 and 15.30.120 contained in
Ord. 89-21 and repeals prior code Title 15, buildings and construction (
8.04)
90-04   Extends moratorium imposed by Ord. 89-04 (Special)
90-05   Adds prior code Ch. 8.06, barbecue regulations (
8.36)
90-06   Adds prior code § 8.12.100, garbage (
8.12)
90-07   Adds §§ 17.093.050, 17.093.060 and 17.093.070, 1983 zoning (
17.093)
90-08   Amends §§ 17.006.240, 17.069.020 and 17.111.030, 1983 zoning (
17.006,
17.069,
17.111)
90-09   Adds prior code Ch. 9.48, automobile sound systems (
9.20)
90-10   Adds prior code Ch. 13.06, mandatory water conservation measures (
13.24)
90-11   Amends prior code § 3.28.030, transient occupancy tax (Not codified)
90-12   Adds prior code § 2.40.220, personnel system (
2.40)
90-13   Adds § 5(c) and amends §§ 1, 2 and 5 of Ord. 314, trees (Repealed by
94-10)
90-14   Amends prior code § 15.30.160(a) and (d); repeals § 15.30.170, fire
code (
8.04)
90-15   Adds prior code § 9.60.070, mobilehome park regulations (
5.20)
90-16   Repeals Ord. 88-09 and Resos. 87-46, 89-124, 89-125, 88-85 and 88-66
(Repealer)
90-17   Repeals and replaces prior code Ch. 2.44, parks and beautification
commission (2.24) (Repealed by Ord. O-2017-004)
90-18   Adds prior code § 15.05.071, buildings and construction (
15.12)
90-19    Adds prior code §§ 3.20.160 and 6.16.140; amends prior code §§
1.12.010(B) and (C)(1)-(3), 2.04.040, 3.20.050, 5.04.510(A), 5.18.020(F) and
(F)(2), 8.08.120, 10.04.330, 10.04.360, 10.08.055(H), 10.20.020, 10.20.030,
10.20.090, 10.20.140, 12.08.020; repeals and replaces prior code §§ 10.04.060,
10.20.090; repeals prior code Chs. 2.32, 3.16, 5.24, 8.04, 8.24, 9.04, 9.06,
9.34, 9.72 and 13.03, and prior code §§ 2.04.010, 3.12.120, 3.12.140, 3.12.180,
9.28.030, 10.04.270, 10.04.280, 10.04.300, 10.08.090, 10.20.100, 10.20.110,
10.20.120 and 10.20.130 (
1.24,
2.04,
3.16,
5.04,
5.08,
6.12,
8.32,
10.04,
10.08,
10.20,
13.20) (Sections 10.20.020, 10.20.030, 10.20.090 and 10.20.100 repealed by O-
2021-003; 6.08.080 repealed by O-2025-001)
90-20   Amends prior code § 15.25.060 and Table B of Ch. 15.25, unreinforced
masonry buildings (Repealed by 95-10)
90-20   Amends prior code § 15.25.060 and Table B of Ch. 15.25, unreinforced
masonry buildings (Repealed by 95-10)
90-21   Amends prior code § 2.04.070, council meetings (Repealed by 97-01)
90-22   Residential growth rate restriction (Special)
91-01   Amends prior code §§ 2.20.020 and 2.20.030(A), planning commission (
2.20)
91-02   Adds § 17.102.142, 1983 zoning (
17.102)
91-03   Amends prior code § 8.12.200, refuse collection (
8.12)
91-04   Amends § 17.108.020, 1983 zoning (
17.108)
91-05   Adds Ch. 3.34, downtown business improvement district (Repealed by 96-
16)
91-06   Amends prior code § 3.28.030, transient occupancy tax (Not codified)
91-07   Amends city contract with California Public Employees' Retirement
System (Special)
91-08   Amends city contract with California Public Employees' Retirement
System (Special)
91-09   Adopts speed zone survey (Special)
91-10   Adds §§ 17.051.030 and 17.054.040, 1983 zoning (
17.051,
17.054)
91-11   Amends prior code § 3.28.030, transient occupancy tax (
3.20)
91-12   Amends prior code § 15.04.040, uniform code permit fees (Repealed by
07-13)
91-13   Amends prior code § 15.30.200, fire code (Repealed by 92-16)
91-14   Amends prior code § 15.30.200, fire code (Repealed by 92-16)
91-15   Code adoption (
1.01)
91-16   Adds Ch. 12.28, overnight camping (
12.28)
91-17   Amends § 15.04.120(B), building code appeals (Repealed by 07-13)
91-18   Amends § 17.051.030, 1983 zoning (
17.051)
92-01   Amends city's contract with California Public Employees' Retirement
System (Special)
92-02   Repeals and replaces prior code Ch. 2.44, parks, recreation and
beautification commission (2.24) (Repealed by Ord. O-2017-004)
92-03   Annexation (Special)
92-04   Annexation (Special)
92-05   Amends §§ 15.04.080, 15.08.040, 15.08.060, 15.16.030, 15.16.040,
15.16.140, 15.16.290, 15.16.310, 15.16.420, 15.16.430, 15.20.030, 15.20.050,
15.20.060, 15.20.070, 15.24.010 and 15.40.010 and Tables 15.20B and C; repeals
and replaces § 15.16.080, buildings and construction (Repealed by 07-13)
92-06   Amends §§ 3.34.080, 3.34.090 and 3.34.150, downtown business
improvement district (Repealed by 96-16)
92-07   Amends §§ 10.08.010, 10.08.040, 10.08.070, and 10.08.100, stopping,
standing and parking (
10.08)
92-08   Amends §§ 2.32.030 and 2.32.050, emergency services (Repealed by 04-06)
92-09   (Not adopted)
92-10   Adds Ch. 10.18, vehicle impound release fee (
10.18)
92-11   Amends § 17.111.050, 1983 zoning (17.111) (Repealed by 2011-003)
92-12   Adds §§ 3.36.030(A)(3) and 3.36.050(C), emergency response and
enforcement fees (
3.36)
92-13   Adds Ch. 9.28, second police response to parties, gatherings or events
(
9.28)
92-14   Adds § 5.24.040(C); amends §§ 5.24.090, 5.24.120, 5.24.150, 5.24.170,
and 5.24.180, alarm businesses (
5.24)
92-15   Amends § 3.20.040, transient occupancy tax (
3.20)
92-16   Repeals and replaces Ch. 8.04, fire control regulations (Repealed by
07-12)
92-17   Adds §§ 5.20.015, 5.20.031 through 5.20.036; amends §§ 5.20.010,
5.20.030, 5.20.040 and 5.20.050, mobilehome park rent control (
5.20)
92-18   Amends § 5.20.070, mobilehome park rent control (
5.20)
92-19   Rezone (Special)
92-20   Adds §§ 10.08.120 and 10.08.130; amends § 10.08.070, parking (
10.08)
92-21   Amends § 10.04.020, parking (
10.04)
92-22   Amends §§ 5.20.031(E) and 5.20.034(B), mobilehome park rent control (
5.20)
92-23   Adds Ch. 9.24, noise control (
9.24)
92-24   Extends three percent residential growth plan (Repealed)
92-25   Adds Ch. 15.48, water-efficient landscape standards and requirements
(15.48) (Chapter 15.48 repealed by O-2020-001)
92-26   Amends § 17.108.020, 1983 zoning (
17.108)
92-27   Adds Ch. 9.32, presence of minors prohibited (
9.32)
93-01   Adds Ch. 15.10, and repeals §§ 15.12.020-15.12.070, 15.12.090-
15.12.100, Ords. 89-06, 89-13 and 89-15, Res. 1825, 87-15 and §§ (1)(c), (2),
(3) and (4) of Res. 87-07 and §§ (1)(c), (d) and (e) of Res. 87-45, development
impact fees (
15.10)
93-02   Amends Ch. 8.04, fire code (
8.04)
93-03   Adds Ch. 13.10, state water supply fee (
13.10)
93-04   Water conservation regulations for building permits; repeals Ord. 89-19
(Special)
93-05   Adds §§ 10.24.030 and 10.24.040 and amends and renumbers existing §
10.24.030 to be § 10.24.050, skateboards (
10.24)
93-06   Amends § 12.20.130, vehicles on the pier (Repealed by 95-05)
93-07   Repeals and replaces § 15.04.160, buildings and construction-violation
and penalty (Repealed by 07-13)
93-08   Amends §§ 13.16.010, 13.16.030, 13.16.040 and 13.16.060, public
facilities charges (
13.16)
93-09   Amends Ch. 8.04 [Section 8.04.050], fire control regulations (Repealed
by 07-12)
93-10   Adds Ch. 2.42, qualifications for service (
2.42)
93-11   Amends §§ 3.34.020, 3.34.030, 3.34.050 and 3.34.070-3.34.090, downtown
business improvement district (Repealed by 96-16)
93-12   Amends §§ 10.24.020-10.24.040, skateboards (
10.24)
93-13   Amends § 10.08.060, curb markings (
10.08)
93-14   Adds Ch. 10.28, police towing services (Repealed by 01-02)
93-15   Adds Ch. 13.14 and repeals Ch. 13.12, sewer use (
13.14)
93-16   Rezone (Special)
93-17   Amends § 8.04.050(10), Uniform Fire Code (Repealed by 07-12)
93-18   Amends § 8.04.050(10), Uniform Fire Code (Repealed by 07-12)
94-01   Amends § 5.20.034(B), mobilehome park rent control (
5.20)
94-02   Repeals and replaces Ch. 16.70, park and recreational land requirements
(
16.70)
94-03   Amends § 16.70.080, subdivisions (
16.70)
94-04   Adds § 17.105.135; amends §§ 17.006.0180, 17.006.0485, 17.006.0490,
17.102.010 and 17.108.020, 1983 zoning (
17.006,
17.102,
17.105,
17.108)
94-05   Amends §§ 10.08.010, 10.08.040, 10.08.070 and 10.08.100, stopping,
standing and parking (
10.08)
94-06   Amends § 15.10.040, development impact fees (
15.10)
94-07   Adds Ch. 10.22, off-highway vehicles (
10.22)
94-08   Amends § 17.121.250, 1983 zoning (Repealed by 95-03)
94-09   Amends §§ 3.34.040, 3.34.050, 3.34.090 and 3.34.110, downtown business
improvement district; repeals § 3.34.080 (Repealed by 96-16)
94-10   Repeals and replaces Ch. 12.12, trees (
12.12)
95-01   Amends § 2.20.020, planning commission (
2.20)
95-02   Five cities redevelopment project plan (Special)
95-03   Repeals Ord. 94-08 (Repealer)
95-04   Amends § 2.04.070, city council (Repealed by 97-01)
95-05   Repeals and replaces Ch. 12.20, public beach and pier use regulations (
12.20)
95-06   Amends § 8.04.050(10), fire control regulations (Repealed by 07-12)
95-07   Amends § 1.04.010, general provisions; amends title of Ch. 2.08, city
manager, and substitutes "city manager" throughout the chapter where "city
administrator" appears, (
1.04,
2.08) (Section 2.08.090 repealed by O-2021-003; Section 2.08.100 repealed by O-
2020-001)
95-08   Adds Ch. 8.37, liability for costs of response to hazardous waste or
substance spills, releases and other incidents (
8.37)
95-09   Adds §§ 15.16.081, 15.16.082, 15.16.083 and 15.16.084 and repeals and
replaces § 15.16.080, construction standards (Repealed by 07-13)
95-10   Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.20, unreinforced masonry buildings safety
code (Repealed by 96-04)
95-11   Amends §§ 10.04.020 and 10.08.060(A)(1), vehicles and traffic (
10.04,
10.08)
95-12   Adds Ch. 10.32, trip reduction measures (
10.32)
95-13   Adds § 3.36.060, revenue and finance (
3.36)
95-14   Adds § 17.024.071, 1983 zoning (
17.024)
95-15   Adds subsection (C) to § 2.04.330; amends § 2.04.330(B), city council (
2.04) (Section 2.04.330 repealed by O-2020-001)
95-16   Amends §§ 15.16.080, 15.16.140, 15.16.290, 15.16.310, 15.16.430,
15.24.010 and 15.40.010; repeals and replaces §§ 15.04.080, 15.16.040 and
15.16.081-15.16.083, buildings and construction; repeals §§ 15.04.090,
15.04.100, 15.08.070, 15.08.080, 15.16.090, 15.16.120, 15.16.130, 15.16.160,
15.16.170, 15.16.180, 15.16.300 and 15.16.320-15.16.410 (Repealed by 07-13)
95-17   Rezone (Special)
96-01   Adds Ch. 3.06, claims against the city (
3.06) (Section 2.04.290 repealed by O-2020-001)
96-02   Amends § 2.04.290, city council (
2.04)
96-03   Reimbursement of costs associated with certain annexation (Special)
96-04   Repeals and replaces Ch. 15.20, unreinforced masonry buildings safety
code (Repealed by 07-13)
96-05   Repeals and replaces Ch. 8.32, weeds and rubbish (
8.32)
96-06   Rezone (Special)
96-07   Rezone (Special)
96-08   (Not codified)
96-09   Amends prior code §§ 17.006.0365, 17.033.015, 17.033.020, 17.102.060,
17.105.120, 17.118.050, 17.121.010, 17.121.160, 17.121.215, 17.124.085,
17.124.150 and 17.124.180; repeals and replaces prior code § 17.105.130;
repeals prior code §§ 17.069 and 17.121.070, 1983 zoning (
17.006,
17.033,
17.102,
17.105,
17.118,
17.121,
17.124)
96-10   Adds Ch. 3.10, warrants and checks (
3.10)
96-11   Amends §§ 2.20.020 and 2.20.040, planning commission (
2.20)
96-12   Repeals and replaces § 17.133.040, 1983 zoning (
17.133)
96-13   Amends §§ 13.08.130 and 13.08.140(D), water service system (
13.08)
96-14   Amends § 10.24.020(A), skateboards (
10.24)
96-15   Repeals and replaces Ch. 12.16, permits for special events (Repealed by
03-01)
96-16   Repeals Ch. 3.34 (Repealer)
96-17   Amends § 13.08.140, water service system (
13.08)
97-01   Repeals and replaces § 2.04.070, city council (
2.04) (Section 2.04.070 repealed by O-2020-001)
97-02   Amends § 13.08.140(E), water service system (Repealed by 98-02)
97-03   Adds Article III (§§ 13.08.300-13.08.380) to Ch. 13.08; repeals water
availability charge and Lopez charge, water service system (
13.08)
97-04   Amends § 8.12.200(A), garbage (
8.12)
97-05   Adds § 5.20.100, mobilehome park rent control regulations (
5.20)
97-06   Amends § 13.04.010, utility services generally (
13.04)
97-07   Repeals and replaces § 2.08.030, city manager (
2.08)
98-01   Amends § 2.04.020, city council salaries (
2.04) (Section 2.04.020 repealed by O-2020-001)
98-02   Repeals § 13.08.140(F) [E] and Ord. 97-02 (Repealer)
98-03   Adds Ch. 12.32, encroachments (
12.32)
98-04   Amends §§ 12.32.010, 12.32.015(A), 12.32.030(A), 12.32.030(D),
12.32.140(A)-(C), encroachments (
12.32)
98-05   Amends §§ 15.32.010-15.32.030 and 15.32.050, residential development
growth management; repeals Ord. 92-24 (
15.32)
98-06   Adds Title 17, 1998 zoning code (T. 17)
98-07   Amends § 2.04.330(B), city council (
2.04) (Section 2.04.330(B) repealed by O-2020-001)
99-01   Imposes urgency interim rent control regulations on mobilehome parks
(Not codified)
99-02   Amends contract with California Public Employees' Retirement System
(Not codified)
99-03   Amends § 5.20.020, mobilehome park rent control (
5.20)
00-01   Amends Chs. 6.12, 6.16 and 6.20, animals (
6.12,
6.16,
6.20) (Repealed by O-2025-001)
00-02   Amends §§ 2.20.020 and 2.24.010(A), planning commission and parks,
recreation and beautification commission (
2.20, 2.24) (Ch. 2.24 repealed by Ord. O-2017-004)
00-03   Amends Ch. 17.26, 1998 zoning (
17.26)
00-04   Adds Ch. 8.38, sale and distribution of tobacco products (
8.38)
01-01   Amends Ch. 5.12, cable system regulatory ordinance (
5.12)
01-02   Repeals and replaces Chapter 10.28, police towing services (
10.28)
01-03   Amends § 16.22.050, lot line adjustment (
16.22)
02-01   Amends Ch. 8.36, outdoor barbecue (
8.36)
02-02   Adds § 17.38.060; amends Ch. 17.12 (Table 2-5), 1998 zoning (
17.12,
17.38)
02-03   Amends zoning code map (Not codified)
02-04   Amends § 5.20.015, mobilehome and mobilehome park definitions (
5.20)
02-05   Amends Ch. 8.04; repeals § 8.04.030, fire control regulations (Repealed
by 07-12)
02-06   Amends §§ 15.04.060, 15.04.080, 15.08.020-15.08.040, 15.16.030,
15.16.040, 15.16.080, 15.16.140, 15.16.290, 15.16.310, 15.24.010, and
15.40.010; repeals §§ 15.08.060 and 15.16.081-15.16.084, buildings and
construction (Repealed by 07-13)
02-07   Amends 2.04.020, city council salaries designated (
2.04) (Section 2.04.020 repealed by O-2020-001)
02-08   Amends 2.08.050(B), city manager powers and duties (
2.08)
02-09   Amends §§ 17.36.050, 17.36.090, and 17.38.060, 1998 zoning (
17.36,
17.38)
03-01   Repeals and replaces Ch. 12.16, permits for special events (
12.16) (Repealed by O-2013-011)
03-02   Adds §§ 5.20.030(A)(3), 5.20.080; amends §§ 5.20.015, 5.20.030(A)(2),
5.20.070(C); repeals and replaces § 5.20.020; mobilehome and mobilehome park (
5.20)
03-03   Adds Ch. 17.117, 1983 zoning; adds § 17.08.155 [17.38.155], 1998
zoning; amends §§ 13.10.030, 13.10.080, 15.10.030, 15.10.090, secondary
dwelling unit; amends §§ 17.006.0847, 17.006.0887, 17.006.0953, 17.124.100,
1983 zoning; amends § 17.54.020, 1998 zoning (
13.10,
15.10,
17.006,
17.117,
17.124,
17.54) (17.006.0847 and Ch. 17.117 repealed by O-2018-010)
03-04   Amends §§ 17.08.020, 17.08.030, Table 2-2, 17.08.040, Table 2-3, Table
2-4, 17.10.020, 17.10.030, 17.10.040, Table 2-6, Table 2-8, Table 2-9,
17.20.040, 17.28.020, 17.28.030, 17.28.040, 17.28.050, Table 3-2, 17.34.090,
Table 3-4, 17.42.030, Ch. 17.62, 1998 zoning (
17.08,
17.10,
17.20,
17.28,
17.34,
17.42,
17.62)
03-05   Charges for sewer service (Not codified)
04-01   Amends § 17.08.030, 1998 zoning (
17.08)
04-02   Amends §§ 17.006.0847, 17.006.0887, 17.006.0953, 17.121.200, 17.124.100
and Ch. 17.117, 1983 zoning (
17.006,
17.117,
17.121,
17.124) (17.006.0847 and Ch. 17.117 repealed by O-2018-010)
04-03   Amends §§ 17.006.806, 17.006.807 and 17.108.030, 1983 zoning (
17.006,
17.108)
04-04   Amends § 17.078.030, 1983 zoning (
17.078)
04-05   Amends § 2.20.030, planning commission (
2.20)
04-06   Repeals and replaces Ch. 2.32, emergency services (
2.32)
04-07   Approves the prezoning code for the Los Robles Del Mar specific plan
(Not codified)
04-08   Approves the preannexation and development agreement between the city
and Pacific Harbor Homes (Special)
04-09   Amends §§ 16.70.040 and 16.70.050, subdivisions (
16.70)
04-10   Adds § 17.105.153; amends §§ 17.006.0037-17.006.0048, 17.006.0901,
17.006.0916, 17.006.0917, 17.006.0919, 17.045.020 and 17.045.030, 1983 zoning;
amends §§ 17.38.030 and 17.62.020, 1998 zoning (
17.006,
17.045,
17.105,
17.38,
17.62)
05-01   Extends urgency interim regarding the allowable locations for adult-
oriented businesses (Special)
05-02   Amends §§ 17.006.0037, 17.006.0039-17.006.0048, 17.006.0901,
17.006.0916, 17.006.0917, 17.006.0919, 17.045.020, 17.045.030 and 17.105.153,
1983 zoning; amends §§ 17.38.030 and 17.62.020, 1998 zoning (Not codified)
05-03   Adds Ch. 5.10, adult-oriented business (
5.10)
05-04   Amends city contract with California Public Employees' Retirement
System (Special)
05-05   Urgency ordinance prohibiting establishment of marijuana dispensaries
(Special)
05-06   Extends urgency ordinance prohibiting establishment of marijuana
dispensaries (Special)
05-07   (Not used)
05-08   Rezone (Special)
05-09   Extends interim ordinance regarding allowable locations for adult-
oriented businesses (Special)
05-10   Amends §§ 17.108.020 and 17.108.030, 1983 zoning; amends §§ 17.34.040
and 17.34.070, 1998 zoning (
17.108,
17.34)
06-01   Adds § 12.20.185, public beach and pier use regulations (
12.20)
06-02   Adds § 17.006.0732 and 17.115.050, 1983 zoning; amends §§ 17.06.040 and
17.62.020, 1998 zoning (
17.006,
17.115,
17.06,
17.62)
06-03   (Not used)
06-04   Extends urgency ordinance prohibiting establishment of marijuana
dispensaries (Special)
06-05   Charges for water service (Not codified)
06-06   Adopts amendments to the 1983 and 1998 zoning codes and local coastal
program; amends §§ 13.10.030, 13.10.080, 15.10.030 and 15.10.090, various
provisions (Repealed by 07-05)
06-07   Grants franchise to construct, operate and maintain pipelines for the
transportation of oil to Conocophillips Pipe Line Company (Special)
06-08   (Not passed)
06-09   Amends the five cities redevelopment project plan (Special)
06-10   Adds § 3.08.115; amends §§ 3.08.070 and 3.08.100, purchasing (
3.08)
07-01   Prohibits the establishment of medical marijuana dispensaries in the
city (Special)
07-02   Prohibits smoking in various locations within the city (Special)
07-03   Adds Ch. 10.10, paid parking zone (
10.10)
07-04   Authorizes an amendment to the contract between the city council and
the board of administration of the California public employees' retirement
system (Special)
07-05   Repeals Ord. 06-06; adopts amendments to the 1983 and 1998 zoning codes
and local coastal program; amends §§ 13.10.030, 13.10.080, 15.10.030 and
15.10.090, various provisions (
13.10, 
15.10,
17.006,
17.117,
17.38) (Ch. 17.117 repealed by O-2018-010)
07-06   Amends the 1983 zoning map and local coastal program (Special)
07-07   Adds §§ 6.20.120 and 12.20.195, feeding of birds (
6.20,
12.20) (Section 6.20.120 repealed by O-2025-001)
07-08   Amends § 2.04.020, city council (
2.04) (Section 2.04.020 repealed by O-2020-001)
07-09   Adopts an eminent domain program for the five cities redevelopment
project area (Special)
07-10   Charges for water service (Not codified)
07-11   Charges for wastewater/sewer service (Not codified)
07-12   Repeals and replaces Ch. 8.04; repeals Ch. 8.08, fire control
regulations (8.04) (Repealed by O-2010-009)
07-13   Urgency ordinance repealing and replacing Chs. 15.04, 15.08 and 15.16
and repealing Chs. 15.20, 15.24, 15.36 and 15.40, buildings and construction
(15.04, 15.08, 15.16) (Ch. 15.04 and Ch. 15.08 repealed by O-2010-009)
08-01   Amends §§ 8.04.040 and 15.08.020, fire control regulations,
construction regulations (8.04, 15.08) (Repealed by O-2010-009)
O-2008-002   Establishes Chapter 3.22, Transactions and Use Tax (
3.22)
08-03   Amends the 1983 zoning map and local coastal program (Special)
08-04   Adds Ch. 12.06, in-lieu fee for undergrounding of utility transmission
facilities (
12.06)
O-2008-005   Amends Sections 16.24.030 and 16.24.040, Subdivisions (
16.24)
O-2008-006   Replaces Chapter 15.44, Flood Hazard Area Use Control (
15.44)
O-2008-007   Amends the contract between the city council and the board of
administration of the California Public Employees' Retirement System (Not
codified)
O-2009-001   Amends § 17.12.030, Table 2-5, 1998 Zoning (
17.12)
O-2009-002   Amends the Toucan Terrace Specific Plan to Allow for Mixed Use
Development Within Phase Area 2
O-2009-003   Adds Chapter 1.24, Administrative Code Enforcement Procedure,
Chapter 1.28, Citation Procedure, §§ 1.20.020 and 1.20.030 (
1.20); amends § 8.20.020 (
8.20)
O-2009-005   Amends § 17.44.050, 1998 Zoning (
17.44)
O-2009-007   Amends § 2.24.030, Parks, Recreation and Beautification Commission
officials (2.24) (Repealed by Ord. O-2017-004)
O-2009-008   Adds Chapter 3.26, Lodging Business Improvement District (
3.26)
O-2010-001   Amends §§ 17.08.030, 17.12.030, 17.62.020, 1998 Zoning Code (
17.08,
17.12,
17.62)
O-2010-002   Adds Chapter 5.22, Vacation Rental Regulation (
5.22)
O-2010-003   Amends § 15.08.050, Amendments—California Plumbing Code (15.08)
(Repealed by O-2010-009)
O-2010-005   Amends § 17.16.040, 1998 Zoning (
17.16)
O-2010-006   Amends § 12.06.140, exemptions (
12.06)
O-2010-008   Amends 15.08.030, Amendments—California Existing Building Code
(15.08) (Repealed by O-2010-009)
O-2010-009   Amends Ch. 8.04, General Provisions; adds Ch. 8.08 Fire Prevention
Regulations; amends Ch.15.04, General Provisions; amends Ch. 15.08,
Construction Regulations; repeals existing Ch. 8.04, Fire Control Regulations;
repeals existing Ch. 15.04, General Provisions; repeals existing Ch. 15.08,
Construction Regulations (
8.04,
8.08,
15.04,
15.08) (Repealed by O-2013-010)
O-2011-001   Adds Ch. 9.36, Graffiti Abatement (
9.36)
O-2011-002   Approving amendment Number 1 to the Development Agreement No.
2004-001 between the city and Pacific Harbor Homes, LLC
O-2011-003   Amends Ch. 17.111, Signs; deletes 17.006.0903, definition of sign
(17.006, 17.111)
O-2011-004   Amends Ch. 17.36, Signs; amends 17.62.020, definitions of
specialized terms and phrases (
17.36,
17.62)
O-2011-005   Amends 2.20.020, planning commission membership (
2.20)
O-2012-001   Adds 17.102.155, site development standards for amateur radio
antennas (17.102)
O-2012-002   Amends 17.38.040, antennas, wireless communications facilities (
17.38)
O-2012-003   Adds 3.08.135, informal bid procedures under the Uniform Public
Construction Cost Accounting Act (
3.08)
O-2012-004   Amends §§ 3.26.030, 3.26.080, 3.26.110, Lodging Business
Improvement District (
3.26)
O-2012-005   Amends §§ 3.08.030, 3.08.070, 3.08.100, 3.08.110, Purchasing (
3.08)
O-2012-006   Amends § 2.24.020, parks, recreation and beautification commission
members and terms (2.24) (Repealed by Ord. O-2017-004)
O-2012-007   Amends §§ 3.06.060 and 3.06.120, adds § 3.06.035, Claims Against
City (
3.06)
O-2012-008   Amendment to the contract between the city council and the board
of administration of the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (Not
codified)
O-2013-002   Adds Ch. 17.04, Reasonable Accommodations (
17.04)
O-2013-003   Amends Ch. 5.28, Peddlers and Solicitors (
5.28)
O-2013-004   Amends 17.033.040, specific plan compliance (
17.033)
O-2013-007   Affirming and revising water service rates (Special)
O-2013-008   Affirming and revising wastewater service rates (Special)
O-2013-009   Adds Ch. 13.28, Stormwater (
13.28)
O-2013-010   Amends Ch. 8.04, General Provisions; amends Ch. 8.08, Fire
Prevention Regulations; amends Ch. 15.04, General Provisions; amends Ch. 15.08,
Construction Regulations; repeals existing Ch. 8.04, General Provisions;
repeals existing Ch. 8.08, Fire Prevention Regulations; repeals existing Ch.
15.07, General Provisions; repeals existing Ch. 15.08, Construction Regulations
(
8.04,
8.08,
15.04,
15.08) (Repealed by O-2016-008)
O-2013-011   Repeals and replaces Ch. 12.16, Permits for Special Events (
12.16)
O-2014-001   Adds 5.12.500, special provisions applicable to holders of state
video franchises (
5.12)
O-2014-004   Amends Tables 2-5 and 2-6 of Title 17 (1998); amends 17.42.060,
planned development permit (
17.42)
O-2014-006   Amends Tables 2-5 and 2-6 of Title 17 (1998); amends 17.42.060,
planned development permit; amends 17.62.020, definitions of specialized terms
and phrases (
17.42,
17.62)
O-2014-007   Amends 6.20.090 and 6.20.110, regarding raising goats (
6.20) (Repealed by O-2025-001)
O-2012-002   Amends 17.38.040, antennas, wireless communications facilities (
17.38)
O-2012-003   Adds 3.08.135, informal bid procedures under the Uniform Public
Construction Cost Accounting Act (
3.08)
O-2012-004   Amends §§ 3.26.030, 3.26.080, 3.26.110, Lodging Business
Improvement District (
3.26)
O-2012-005   Amends §§ 3.08.030, 3.08.070, 3.08.100, 3.08.110, Purchasing (
3.08)
O-2012-006   Amends § 2.24.020, parks, recreation and beautification commission
members and terms (
2.24)
O-2012-007   Amends §§ 3.06.060 and 3.06.120, adds § 3.06.035, Claims Against
City (
3.06)
O-2012-008   Amendment to the contract between the city council and the board
of administration of the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (Not
codified)
O-2013-001   Adds Ch. 17.100, Reasonable Accommodations (
17.100)
O-2013-002   Adds Ch. 17.04, Reasonable Accommodations (
17.04)
O-2013-003   Amends Ch. 5.28, Peddlers and Solicitors (
5.28)
O-2013-007   Affirming and revising water service rates (Special)
O-2013-008   Affirming and revising wastewater service rates (Special)
O-2013-009   Adds Ch. 13.28, Stormwater (
13.28)
O-2013-010   Amends Ch. 8.04, General Provisions; amends Ch. 8.08, Fire
Prevention Regulations; amends Ch. 15.04, General Provisions; amends Ch. 15.08,
Construction Regulations; repeals existing Ch. 8.04, General Provisions;
repeals existing Ch. 8.08, Fire Prevention Regulations; repeals existing Ch.
15.07, General Provisions; repeals existing Ch. 15.08, Construction Regulations
(
8.04,
8.08,
15.04,
15.08)
O-2013-011   Repeals and replaces Ch. 12.16, Permits for Special Events (
12.16)
O-2014-001   Adds 5.12.500, special provisions applicable to holders of state
video franchises (
5.12)
O-2014-004   Amends Tables 2-5 and 2-6 of Title 17 (1998); amends 17.42.060,
planned development permit (
17.42)
O-2014-005   Amends 17.006.0285, definition of coastal resources; amends
17.042.020, permitted uses; amends 17.121.035, planned development permit (
17.006,
17.042,
17.121)
O-2014-006   Amends Tables 2-5 and 2-6 of Title 17 (1998); amends 17.42.060,
planned development permit; amends 17.62.020, definitions of specialized terms
and phrases (
17.42,
17.62)
O-2014-007   Amends 6.20.090 and 6.20.110, regarding raising goats (
6.20)
O-2014-008   Amends Ch. 3.22, Transactions and Use Tax (
3.22)
O-2014-009   Amendment to the contract between the city council and the board
of administration of the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (Not
codified)
O-2015-001   Amends 2.24.050, meetings for parks, recreation and beautification
commission (2.24) (Repealed by Ord. O-2017-004)
O-2015-003   Adds Ch. 3.14, General Funds Committed Funds (
3.14)
O-2015-004   Adds Ch. 15.49, Public Art Program (
15.49)
O-2015-005   Adds Ch. 15.50, Water- Efficient Fixture Standards and
Requirements (
15.50)
O-2015-006   Adds 17.006.0285, definition of coastal resources; amends
17.042.020 to allow affordable housing on the upper floor of buildings in the
C-1 zone; adds 17.121.035 regarding planned development permits (
17.006,
17.042,
17.121)
O-2015-007   Repeals Ch. 9.04 and enacts a new Ch. 9.04, Alcoholic Beverage
Control Regulations (
9.04)
O-2015-008   Adds Ch. 8.40, Expanded Polystyrene (
8.40)
O-2016-001   Adds Ch. 9.05, Sale or Distribution of Certain Synthetic Drugs
Prohibited (
9.05)
O-2016-002   Amends 2.20.020, Membership (
2.20)
O-2016-003   Adds 17.006.0731, Marijuana cultivation; adds 17.133.050, Nuisance
and civil penalties; amends 17.06.040, Zoning district regulations; adds
17.06.050, Nuisance and civil penalties; amends 17.62.020, Definitions (
17.006,
17.133,
17.06,
17.62)
O-2016-004   Amends 1.01.110, Publication; amends 1.20.010, Violation—penalty;
amends 2.04.340, Reading of ordinances; amends 2.04.350, Reading of
resolutions; amends 2.40.040, Exceptions to chapter provisions; amends
5.32.010, Permit required; amends 5.32.020, Permit—provisions; adds Ch. 8.18,
Public Urination or Defecation; amends 8.20.050, Notice of public
hearing—posting; amends 10.08.040, Stopping, standing and parking restrictions;
amends 12.16.030, Permit required; amends 12.16.070, Use of city logo or name;
amends 12.16.090, When application for special event permit is deemed complete;
amends 12.16.110, Content of special event permit application; amends
12.16.120, Conditions affecting the issuance of a special event permit; amends
12.16.230, Revenue sharing; amends 12.28.020, Prohibition; amends 15.49.020,
Public art account; amends 17.108.030, General requirements of parking areas (
1.01,
1.20,
2.04,
2.40,
5.32,
8.18,
8.20,
10.08,
12.16,
12.28,
15.49,
17.108) (Section 2.04.340 and 2.04.350 repealed by O-2020-001; Section 5.32.010
and 5.32.020 repealed by O-2021- 003)
O-2016-005      Adds 16.40.210, Full compliance (
16.40)
O-2016-006   Adds 17.006.0347, Demolition; amends 17.006.0577, Inauguration;
adds 17.133.060, Full compliance requirement (
17.006,
17.133)
O-2016-007   Adds 17.60.120, Full compliance; amends 17.62.020, Definitions (
17.60,
17.62)
O-2016-008   Amends Ch. 8.04, 8.08, 15.04, 15.08, 15.12, building codes and
special permit processing (
8.04,
8.08,
15.04,
15.08,
15.12) (Ch. 8.04, 8.08, 15.04, 15.08 repealed by O-2019-008) (Ch. 8.04, 8.08,
15.04, 15.08 repealed by O-2019-008)
O-2017-001   Adds 9.07.010—9.07.040, marijuana regulation (
9.07)
O-2017-002   Adds 2.30.010—2.30.030, industrial development authority (
2.30)
O-2017-003   Amends 13.24.030—13.24.060, water conservation (
13.24)
O-2017-004   Amends 2.20.010—2.20.050, planning commission; repeals ch. 2.24,
parks, recreation and beautification commission (
2.20, 2.24)
O-2017-006      Amends 5.12.500, Special provisions applicable to holders of
state video franchises (
5.12)
O-2018-001      Amends 6.20.090, animal raising (
6.20) (Repealed by O-2025-001)
O-2018-002      Extended interim urgency ordinance to the city council
establishing a citywide moratorium prohibiting the approval, expansion,
intensification or relocation of any new or existing specified businesses (Not
codified)
O-2018-003      Adding Ch. 12.36, pavement cut moratorium (
12.36)
O-2018-004      Amends 10.08.070, parking for more than seventy-two hours
prohibited; adds 10.08.140, oversize vehicles and trailers (
10.08)
O-2018-005      Amends 2.04.020, salaries designated (
2.04) (Section 2.04.020 repealed by O-2020-001)
O-2018-006      Adding definitions 17.006.0567, homestay and 17.006.0902,
short-term rental; amending 17.018.020 permitted uses; adding 17.033.015,
permitted uses; adding 17.051.015, permitted uses; adding Ch. 17.113, short-
term rentals; adding 17.121.095, short-term rental and homestay permits (
17.006,
17.018,
17.033,
17.051,
17.113,
17.121)
O-2018-007      Amends 17.08.030, residential district land uses and permit
requirements; amends 17.16.030, special purpose district land uses and permit
requirements; amends 17.62.020, definitions, adds 17.09, short-term rentals (
17.08,
17.09,
17.16,
17.62)
O-2018-008      Amends 10.10.030, operational procedure to be followed (
10.10)
O-2018-009      Amends 12.36.040, excavation waiver (
12.36)
O-2018-010      Adds 17.006.0017, definition of accessory dwelling unit; amends
17.006.0847, definition of primary dwelling unit; repeals 17.006.0887,
definition of secondary dwelling unit; amends Ch. 17.117, accessory dwelling
units; amends 17.121.100, zone clearances; amends 17.124.100, public hearing
procedures (
17.006,
17.117,
17.121,
17.124) (Ch. 17.117 replaced by O-2021-001)
O-2018-011      Amends 13.10.030, definitions; amends 15.10.030, definitions;
amends 15.10.090, exemptions; amends 17.08.030, residential district land uses
and permit requirements; amends 17.34.040, number of parking spaces required;
amends 17.38.155, accessory dwelling units; amends 17.42.060, planned
development permit; amends 17.54.020, appeal subjects and jurisdiction; amends
17.62.020, definitions of specialized terms and phrases (
13.10,
15.10,
17.08,
17.34,
17.38,
17.42,
17.54,
17.62)
O-2018-013      Amending 5.22.020, application process; adding
5.22.100—5.22.160, short-term rental regulation (
5.22)
O-2018-014      Amending 10.24.010 and 10.24.020, skateboards (
10.24)
O-2019-001      Amending 3.08.070, 3.08.100 and 3.08.110, purchasing (
3.08)
O-2019-002      Amending Chapter 8.14, smoking in public places (
8.14)
O-2019-003      Repealing Ordinances O-2013-007 and O-2013-008, relating to
water and wastewater rates, respectively (Not codified)
O-2019-004      Amending 5.22.100, definitions; 17.09.020, definitions;
17.021.020, permitted uses; 17.024.020, permitted uses; 17.027.020, permitted
uses; 17.030.020, permitted uses; 17.042.020, permitted uses; 17.113.020,
definitions; 17.113.030, applicability (
5.22,
17.09,
17.021,
17.024,
17.027,
17.030,
17.042,
17.113)
O-2019-005      Adding Chapter 13.32, community choice energy (
13.32)
O-2019-006      Amending 17.006.0040, adult businesses; adding 17.006.0250,
check- cashing establishment; adding 17.006.0528, gold and silver exchange;
adding 17.006.0732, massage establishment–accessory; adding 17.006.0733,
massage establishment–primary; renumbering 17.006.0732 to 17.006.0734; adding
17.006.0814, pawn shop; adding 17.006.0874, resale establishment; adding
17.006.0909, smoke shop; adding 17.006.0947, tattoo establishment; amending
17.027.020, permitted uses; amending 17.030.020, permitted uses; amending
17.030.030, uses; amending 17.042.020, permitted uses; amending 17.042.030,
uses; amending 17.045.020, permitted uses; amending 17.045.030, uses; adding
17.105.190, proximity limitations (
17.006,
17.027,
17.030,
17.042,
17.045,
17.105)
O-2019-007      Amending 17.12.030, commercial district land uses and permit
requirements; adding 17.38.135, proximity limitations; amending 17.62.020,
definitions (
17.12,
17.38,
17.62)
O-2019-008      Amending Title 8 and 15, Chapters 8.04, 8.08, 15.04, 15.08
adopting and amending the latest editions of the constituent codes of the
California Building Standards Code (
8.04,
8.08,
15.04,
15.08)
O-2019-010      Adding 17.18.055, residential very high density (RVHD) overlay
district (
17.18)
O-2019-012      Adding Chapter 5.11, personal services businesses (
5.11)
O-2019-006      Amending 17.006.0040, adult businesses; adding 17.006.0250,
check- cashing establishment; adding 17.006.0528, gold and silver exchange;
adding 17.006.0732, massage establishment–accessory; adding 17.006.0733,
massage establishment–primary; renumbering 17.006.0732 to 17.006.0734; adding
17.006.0814, pawn shop; adding 17.006.0874, resale establishment; adding
17.006.0909, smoke shop; adding 17.006.0947, tattoo establishment; amending
17.027.020, permitted uses; amending 17.030.020, permitted uses; amending
17.030.030, uses; amending 17.042.020, permitted uses; amending 17.042.030,
uses; amending 17.045.020, permitted uses; amending 17.045.030, uses; adding
17.105.190, proximity limitations (
17.006,
17.027,
17.030,
17.042,
17.045,
17.105)
O-2019-007      Amending 17.12.030, commercial district land uses and permit
requirements; adding 17.38.135, proximity limitations; amending 17.62.020,
definitions (
17.12,
17.38,
17.62)
O-2019-008      Amending Title 8 and 15, Chapters 8.04, 8.08, 15.04, 15.08
adopting and amending the latest editions of the constituent codes of the
California Building Standards Code (
8.04,
8.08,
15.04,
15.08 ) (Ch. 8.04, 8.08, 15.04, 15.08 repealed by O- 2022-008) 
O-2019-010      Adding 17.18.055, residential very high density (RVHD) overlay
district (
17.18)
O-2019-012      Adding Chapter 5.11, personal services businesses (
5.11)
O-2020-001      Amending 1.24.060, abatement of unlawful conditions-
administrative citation, amending Chapter 2.04, City Council, amending
2.08.100, absence and succession, repealing Chapter 2.28, Redevelopment Agency,
amending 3.26.020, definitions, repealing Chapter 3.32, South Palisades
Assessment District, amending 6.04.010, definitions, repealing and replacing
Chapter 15.48, water-efficient landscape standards and requirements (
1.24,
2.04,
2.08,
3.26,
6.04,
15.48) (6.04.010 repealed by O-2025-001)
O-2020-002      Amending 13.08.190, water service system (
13.08)
O-2020-005      Adding Chapter 12.22, sidewalk vending (
12.22)
O-2020-007      Amending 5.22.100, definitions, amending 5.22.120, application
process, amending 17.09.020, definitions, amending 17.38.155, accessory
dwelling units (
5.22,
17.09,
17.38)
O-2020-008      Adding Ch. 17.091, Residential very high density (RVHD) overlay
district (
17.091)
O-2020-009      Amending 3.20.030, tax imposed (
3.20)
O-2021-001      Amending 17.113.020, definition of homestay; amending Ch.
17.117, Accessory dwelling units (
17.113,
17.117)
O-2021-003      Adding Ch. 1.06, city insignia; repeals Ch. 1.12, elections;
amends 1.24.100, appeal of notice of administrative citation; amends 1.24.110,
hearing procedures; adds Ch. 2.02, elections and campaign finance; repeals
2.08.090, bond required; repeals 2.12.080, bond; repeals Ch. 2.16, officers’
bonds; amends 2.20.020, membership; amends 2.40.040, exceptions to chapter
provisions; repeals Ch. 5.32, public telephones; repeals Ch. 5.36, public
dances; amends 5.40.070, insurance required; amends 5.44.050, deadline for
filing applications; amends 10.04.020, no-parking zones- establishment
authority; amends 10.04.070, traffic control authority; repeals Ch. 10.20,
bicycles; amends 12.20.020, beach safety zone-vehicles; amends 12.20.080, beach
safety zone-aircraft; amends 12.20.110, beach safety zone-exceptions; amends
12.32.015, definitions; amends 12.32.030, encroachment permits; amends
12.32.050, excavations- safety requirements; amends 12.32.100, defects-
abandonment of property-cost to remedy; amends 12.32.120, permittee’s
liability; amends 12.32.130, special encroachment concerns; amends 12.32.140,
sidewalk cafes/sidewalk sales; amends 12.32.150, newsracks; amends 12.36.040,
excavation waiver; amends 13.08.115, unauthorized connections or disconnections
(
1.06,
1.24,
2.02,
2.20,
2.40,
5.40,
5.44,
10.04,
12.20,
12.32,
12.36,
13.08)
O-2021-004      Adds Ch. 8.13, mandatory organic waste disposal reduction;
amends 15.04.010, adoption of construction codes; amends 15.48.010, model water
efficient landscaping standards and requirements (
8.13,
15.04,
15.48) (15.04.010 repealed by O-2022- 008) 
O-2021-005      Adds Ch. 12.10, newsracks; amends 12.32.015, definitions;
amends 12.32.150, newsracks (
12.10,
12.32)
O-2021-006      Amends 5.11.020 through 5.11.134, massage establishments (
5.11)
O-2022-002      Adds 17.38.145, two-unit residential development and urban lot
splits (
17.38)
O-2022-003      Adds Ch. 9.26, military equipment policy (
9.26)
O-2022-004      Amending 15.48.010, model water efficient landscaping standards
and requirements (
15.48)
O-2022-005      Interim urgency ordinance imposing a moratorium on the issuance
of short-term rental licenses pursuant to Gov’t Code Section 65858 (Not
codified)
O-2022-006      Amends 2.04.020, salaries designated (
2.04)
O-2022-007      Extended interim urgency ordinance imposing a moratorium on the
issuance of short-term rental licenses pursuant to Gov’t Code Section 65858
(Not codified)
O-2022-008      Amending Ch. 8.04, general provisions; amends Ch. 8.08, fire
prevention regulations; amends Ch. 15.04, general provisions; amends Ch. 15.08,
construction regulations (
8.04,
8.08,
15.04,
15.08)
   O-2023-001   Amends 12.10.010, purpose; 12.10.030, permit-required;
12.10.040, permit application; 12.10.050, permit issuance- renewal; 12.10.070,
liability indemnification; 12.10.080, newsracks requirements; 12.10.120,
nuisance/cumulative remedies (
12.10)
   O-2023-002   Adds Ch. 17.119, two-unit residential development and urban lot
splits (
17.119)
   O-2023-003   Extended interim urgency ordinance imposing a moratorium on the
issuance of short-term rental licenses pursuant to Gov’t Code Section 65858
(Not codified)
   O-2023-004   Amending Ch. 10.10 paid parking zone (
10.10.010)
   O-2023-005   Adds Ch. 13.12 pretreatment; amends Ch. 13.14 sewer use (13.12,
13.14)
   O-2023-006   Amending Ch. 5.22 vacation rentals and short-term rentals
(5.22)
   O-2023-007   Adopting a development agreement with Pismo Beach Self-Storage,
LP (Not codified)
   O-2024-001   Amends 9.04.020, possession of alcoholic beverage unlawful
when; amends 9.04.040, violation—penalty; amends 12.20.185, pier—display and
sale of merchandise on pier and in pier zone; amends 12.20.210, pier zone—hours
of closure (9.04, 12.20)
   O-2024-002   Amends 10.12.030, eight- thousand-pound limit for commercial
vehicles on city streets (10.12)
   O-2024-003   Amends Ch. 3.22, Transactions and Use Tax (3.22)
   O-2025-001   Amends Title 6, Animals (6.02, 6.04, 6.06)
   O-2025-002   Amends Ch. 1.24, administrative code enforcement procedure;
adds 2.04.280, mayor and city council member interim succession; amends
2.08.050, powers and duties; amends 2.08.100, absence and succession; adds Ch.
2.18, qualifications for advisory body service; adds 3.06.005, electronic
submittal of claims; amends 3.06.010, claims in general; repeals 3.06.035,
class actions; amends 3.08.030, purchasing officer—duties; amends 3.08.070,
bidding; amends 3.08.080, purchase orders; amends 3.08.100, formal contract
procedure; amends 3.08.110, open market procedure; amends 3.08.115, emergency
purchasing authority; amends 3.08.135, informal bid procedures under the
Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act; repeals 3.08.140,
violation—penalty; amends 5.04.340, license applications for amusement devices;
amends Ch. 5.16, card games and rooms; amends 5.22.050, on-going requirements
for vacation rental operation; amends 5.24.170, fees and penalties for false
alarms; amends 5.24.200, procedures for suspension or revocation; amends
5.24.210, revocation; amends 5.24.220, appeal procedure; amends 5.28.020,
definitions; amends 5.28.060, prohibited acts and restrictions; amends
10.04.020, no-parking zones—establishment authority; amends 10.10.010,
establishment of paid parking zone; amends 12.16.070, use of city logo or name;
amends 12.32.010, findings; amends 12.32.015, definitions; amends 12.32.020,
encroachment restrictions; amends 12.32.030, encroachment permits; amends
12.32.120, permittee’s liability; amends 12.32.130, special encroachment
concerns; amends 12.32.150, newsracks; amends 12.36.020, definitions; amends
12.36.030, moratorium, exceptions; amends 12.36.040, excavation waiver (1.24,
2.04, 2.08, 2.18, 3.06, 3.08, 5.04, 5.16, 5.22, 5.24, 5.28, 10.04, 10.10,
12.16, 12.32, 12.36)
   O-2025-003   Amends 10.10.050, exceeding paid parking time (10.10)
   O-2025-004   Adds 8.04.040, fire hazard severity zones (8.04)
   O-2025-006   Amends 5.11.020 through 5.11.134, massage establishments (5.11)
