CITY CODE
of
PORTERVILLE, CALIFORNIA
Code current through:
Ord. 1916, passed 8-19-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREAMBLE
         This code of the City of Porterville, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 1916, passed August 19, 2025 and
resolution 44-2014, passed July 1, 2014. Ordinances of the City adopted after
said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they
are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 794
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PORTERVILLE ADOPTING BY REFERENCE THAT CERTAIN
PUBLICATION ENTITLED "THE CODE OF THE CITY OF PORTERVILLE, CALIFORNIA", AS
PUBLISHED BY MICHIE CITY PUBLICATIONS COMPANY OF LOS ANGELES, 1963.
An ordinance of the city of Porterville, California adopting a revision and
codification of the ordinances of the city entitled "The Code of the City of
Porterville, California", providing for the repeal of certain ordinances not
included therein with certain exceptions, and for other purposes hereinafter
set out.
The council of the city of Porterville do ordain as follows:
Section 1. There is hereby adopted by the city council of the city of
Porterville that certain code entitled "The Code of the City of Porterville,
California", containing certain ordinances of a general and permanent nature as
compiled, consolidated, codified and indexed in chapters 1 to 25, both
inclusive, of which code not less than three copies have been and are now filed
in the office of the city clerk.
Section 2. The provisions of such code shall be in force on and after May 22,
1964, and all ordinances of a general and permanent nature in force on October
3, 1962, and not contained in such code are hereby repealed from and after May
22, 1964, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in the preceding section of this ordinance
shall not affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or
forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before May
22, 1964; nor shall it affect any prosecution, suit or proceeding pending or
any judgment rendered prior to May 22, 1964; nor shall such repeal affect any
ordinance or resolution promising or authorizing the issue of any bonds of the
city of any evidence of the city's indebtedness or any contract or obligation
assumed by the city; nor shall it affect the annual tax levy; nor shall it
affect any right or franchise conferred by ordinance or resolution of the city
on any person, or corporation; nor shall it affect any ordinance adopted for
purposes which have been consummated; nor shall it affect any ordinance which
is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in
effect; nor shall it affect any ordinance relating to the salaries of the city
officers or employees; nor shall it affect any ordinance annexing territory to
the city; nor shall it affect any ordinance naming, renaming, opening,
accepting or vacating streets or alleys in the city; nor shall it affect any
ordinance relating to zoning; nor shall it affect any ordinance adopted on
final reading and passage after October 2, 1962; nor shall if affect any of the
following ordinances or amendments thereto; ordinance 686 accepting the
requirements of section 13522 of the Penal Code relating to training law
enforcement officers; sections 4311, 4312, 4321, 4322, 4323, 4324, 4325, 4326,
4327, 4328, 4329 of the Ordinance Code pertaining to privies and cleaning
septic tanks; sections 10411 to 10431 of the Ordinance Code pertaining to the
master plan and setback lines; ordinance 388 pertaining to property taxation
and comprising Sections 2111 through 21136 of the Porterville Ordinance Code;
Ordinance Nos. 470 and 606, being sections 2211 through 2251 of the Porterville
Ordinance Code, pertaining to sales and use taxes.
Section 4. Whenever in the code adopted by this ordinance or in any other
ordinance of the city or in any rule, regulation or order promulgated by any
officer or agency of the city under authority duly vested in him or if any act
is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act
is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific
penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of such code
or any other ordinance of the city or such rule, regulation or order shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Except where otherwise provided, every day any violation of such Code or any
other ordinance of the city or such rule, regulation or order shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
Section 5. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that
the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this ordinance and
the code hereby adopted are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence,
paragraph or section of this ordinance or the code hereby adopted shall be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree
of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs
and sections of this ordinance or the Code hereby adopted.
Section 6. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect thirty (30) days
from and after its publication and passage.
Adopted April 21, 1964.
Porterville City Charter   Page
CITY CHARTER
Sec. 1. Name Of City; Perpetual Succession.
The municipal corporation now existing and known as the "City Of Porterville"
shall remain and continue a body politic and corporate, as at present, in fact
and in law, by the name of the "City Of Porterville," and by such name shall
have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1.1. City Motto.
"In God We Trust" shall be designated as the official motto of the city of
Porterville. (6-24-2008)
Sec. 2. Boundaries.
The boundaries of the city of Porterville shall continue as now established
until changed in some manner authorized by law.
Sec. 3. Rights And Liabilities Of Cities; Prior Contracts, Liabilities, Etc.,
Continued In Effect.
The city of Porterville shall remain vested with and continue to have, hold,
and enjoy, all property, rights of property, and rights of action of every
nature and description, now pertaining to said municipality, and is hereby
declared to be the successor of the same. No right, liability, pending suit or
prosecution on behalf of, or against, the city shall be affected by the
adoption of this charter. All contracts entered into by the city prior to the
taking effect of this charter shall continue in full force and effect.
Sec. 4. General Powers Of City; Official Seal.
The city of Porterville, by and through its council and other officials, shall
have and may exercise all powers necessary or appropriate to a municipal
corporation and the general welfare of its inhabitants, which are not
prohibited by the constitution, and which it would be competent for this
charter to set forth particularly or specifically; and the specifications
herein of any particular powers shall not be held to be exclusive or any
limitation upon this general grant of power. General powers of the city
include, but are not limited to, the powers necessary or appropriate to promote
the health, welfare and education of its inhabitants. The city shall have and
use a common seal and the official seal hereinbefore adopted and now in use by
said city shall continue to be the official seal of said city. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 4.1. Intergovernmental Powers.
The city may exercise and perform any of its functions and may participate in
the financing thereof, jointly or in cooperation, by agreement or otherwise,
with any one or more states or any agency of California, or any governmental
jurisdiction or nonprofit corporation thereof, or the United States or any of
its agencies or instrumentalities. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 4.2. Liberal Interpretation.
The powers of the city under this charter shall be construed liberally in favor
of the city, and the specific mention of particular powers in the charter shall
not be construed as limiting in any way any of the powers granted by this
charter. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 5. When Elections To Be Held; Special Elections; Procedure For Elections
For Local Improvements Or Levies Of Assessment Or Bonded Indebtedness.
General municipal elections shall be held in said city at the same time as the
general election for federal offices in the state of California under and
pursuant to the general laws of the state of California governing elections in
charter cities, so far as the same may be applicable, and except as herein
otherwise provided. All other municipal elections that may be held by authority
of this charter or of general law shall be known as special municipal
elections, and shall be held, substantially as in this charter provided for
general municipal elections; providing, however, that special elections to
authorize any municipal or local public improvement, or the levy of assessment
therefor, or to create a municipal bonded indebtedness, shall be held in
conformity with any general law of the state relative thereto under which any
such proceeding is instituted by the council, in case such general law provides
for the procedure and manner of holding elections thereunder. (4-6-1971; 4-5-
1977; 3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
Sec. 6. Initiative, Referendum And Recall.
Ordinances may be initiated, or the referendum exercised on ordinances passed
by the council, under and in accordance with the constitution and general laws
of the state. Any elective officer may be recalled from office under and
pursuant to the provisions of the constitution and general laws, provided that
a special election shall be held at the same time as the recall election, in
accordance with the constitution and general laws of the state, for the purpose
of electing officers to fill the place or places of the officers sought to be
recalled. (4-6-1971; 3-4-2003)
Sec. 7. Elective Officers To Be Residents.
In order to be eligible to hold any elective office in the city of Porterville,
a person must be a resident and elector therein, and shall have resided in said
city for at least thirty days next preceding the filing of their nominating
papers, or equivalent declaration or candidacy, and be an elector at the time
of said filing. (4-6-1971; 4-5-1977; 3-4-2003)
Sec. 8. Elective Officers.
The elective officers of the city of Porterville shall be five councilmen, who
shall be elected from the city at large at a general municipal election
therein.
Sec. 9. Legislative Body; Composition; Election; Term; Compensation;
Ineligibility For Other City Office; President Of Council; Vice-President;
Installation Of Newly Elected Officers; Powers To Be Exercised By Council.
The legislative body of the city shall consist of five persons elected at
large, which body shall be known as the council.
The members of the council shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city
at a general municipal election to be held in the said city at the same time as
the general election for federal offices for the state of California. They
shall hold office for the period of four (4) years from and after the Monday
next succeeding the day of their election and until their successors are
elected, and qualified; provided the respective terms of any council member
presently serving or elected at the time of the adoption of this amendment
shall be extended one additional year to the even-numbered year following the
expiration of their respective terms. (3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
The members of the council shall each receive the sum of twenty dollars
($20.00) for each council meeting actually attended; the mayor shall receive
the sum of twenty- five dollars ($25.00) for each meeting of the council
actually attended, provided, however, that the members of the council shall not
receive compensation for more than seven meetings in any one calendar month. In
addition, the council shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred for
authorized city business. (4-6-1971)
The members of the council shall not be eligible to any other office or
employment with the city.
The council shall reorganize at its next meeting following each municipal
election and shall choose one of their number to serve as president of the
council to be known as mayor. At this time the council shall also choose one of
their number to serve as vice-president, and he/she shall act as mayor pro
tempore in case of the absence, sickness or other disability of the mayor. The
mayor and mayor pro tempore shall serve a two year term, but either may be
removed at any time by a majority vote of the council. If the council removes
the mayor prior to the expiration of his/her term pursuant to this provision,
the council shall choose one of their number to serve as mayor until the next
organizational meeting. (3-4-2003)
The council shall meet at its usual meeting place on the first Monday after any
municipal election, duly canvass the returns and declare the result thereof,
and install the newly elected officers, if any.
All powers granted to and vested in the city of Porterville by law or by the
provisions of this charter, shall, except as herein otherwise provided, be
exercised by the council to be designated the "Council Of The City Of
Porterville." The council shall be the governing body of the city and subject
to the express limitations of this charter shall be vested with all the powers
necessary or convenient for a complete and adequate system of municipal
government, consistent with the constitution of the state. (4-6-1937)
Amendment note - The third paragraph of § 9 was amended April 6, 1971. Formerly
said section allowed each council member the sum of $5.00 for each meeting
actually attended, for not more than two meetings in any one month.
Sec. 9.1. Public Participation.
The council shall continue to encourage the organization of and communication
with representative neighborhood groups throughout the city to encourage
citizen participation, to seek advice and input and to provide information to
the public relative to city matters and affairs. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 10. Time And Place Of Council Meetings; Meetings To Be Open To Public;
Council To Adopt Rules For Conduct Of Its Own Proceedings.
The council shall provide by ordinance for the time and place of holding its
meetings. Special meetings shall be called in accordance with the provisions of
general law. There shall be at least one (1) regular meeting in each month. Any
regular meeting may be adjourned to a date and hour certain, and such adjourned
meeting shall be a regular meeting for all purposes. (4-6-1971)
Except for special meetings with the legislative bodies of other political
subdivisions, or informational meetings held within a community in accordance
with the Brown act where no action is to be taken, all meetings of the council
shall be held at or on publicly-owned facilities, unless by reason of fire,
flood, or other disaster, or lack of seating capacity, the public-owned
facilities cannot be used for that purpose, and all meetings shall be open to
the public. The council shall adopt rules for conducting its proceedings and
may punish its members or other persons present at any meeting for disorderly
conduct. (4-2-1963; 3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
Amendment note - The first paragraph of § 10 was amended April 6, 1971, by
changing the manner of calling special meetings. Formerly the council provided
by ordinance "the manner in which its special meetings may be called." The
second paragraph of § 10 was amended March 4, 2003 to allow meeting outside
city hall.
Sec. 11. Quorum; Compelling Attendance At Meetings.
A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, but a less number may adjourn from time to time and postpone the
consideration of or action upon, pending business in like manner. Attendance at
meetings of absent members of the council may be compelled in such manner and
under such penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Sec. 12. How Council Acts On Legislative Matters; Resolutions; Records Of
Votes; Requirement That All Members Vote; How Ordinances Headed; Ordaining
Clause; Ordaining Clause Of Ordinances Passed By Initiative; When Ordinances To
Be Passed; Publication; Effective Date Of Ordinances; Certain Matters Required
To Be Passed By Ordinance; Repeal Of Ordinances; Revision Of Ordinances;
Ordinances To Be Signed By Mayor And Attested By Clerk.
The council shall act in legislative matters by ordinance or resolution only.
Other action of the council, unless herein otherwise provided, may be taken by
resolution, motion, or order.
The ayes and noes shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances and
resolutions and entered upon the record of the proceedings of the council. Upon
the request of any member of the council, the ayes and noes shall be taken and
recorded upon any vote. All members present at any meeting must vote; provided
that no such member of the council shall cast a vote when to do so would be
contrary to the applicable provisions of state law, including the laws
pertaining to conflict of interest. (3-4-2003)
No ordinance or resolution shall be passed without receiving the affirmative
votes of at least three members of the council.
Each ordinance shall be headed by a brief title which shall indicate the
purport thereof.
The ordaining clause of all ordinances adopted by the council shall be, "The
Council of the City of Porterville do ordain as follows:"
The ordaining clause of all ordinances passed by the vote of the electors of
the city, through the exercise of the initiative shall be, "The People of the
City of Porterville do ordain as follows:"
No ordinance shall be passed by the council at any time other than at a regular
meeting, and until its publication, in a manner and for a time period as
determined and set forth by ordinance. (7-1-2014)
Except an ordinance calling or otherwise relating to an election, no ordinance
passed by the council of the city of Porterville, except when otherwise
specially required by the laws of the state, and except an ordinance for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety, which contains a
declaration of, and the facts constituting its urgency and is passed by a four-
fifths (4/5) vote of the council, and no ordinance granting a franchise, shall
go into effect before thirty (30) days from its final passage.
Except as otherwise provided by general law, or this charter, no action
providing for the granting of any franchise, or for the establishing or
changing fire zones, or for the imposing of any penalty, shall be taken except
by ordinance. (3-8-1983)
No ordinance, or portion thereof, shall be repealed except by ordinance. No
ordinance shall be revised, reenacted or amended by reference to its title
only; but the ordinance to be revised or reenacted, or the section or sections
thereof to be amended, or the new section or sections to be added thereto shall
be set forth and adopted according to the method provided in this section for
the enactment of ordinances, and such revision, re-enactment, amendment, or
addition, shall be made by ordinance only.
All ordinances shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk.
Sec. 13. Legislative Officers; Administrative Officers; Other Officers And
Commissions; Consolidation Of Offices.
The legislative officers of the city of Porterville shall consist of five (5)
members of the council, one of whom shall act as mayor. In addition, there
shall be the following administrative officers who shall be appointed by the
council: a city manager, a city attorney and a city clerk.
The council may, by ordinance provide for such other officers as deemed
necessary and the council may further establish by ordinance commissions deemed
by it to be necessary or proper to aid in the orderly administration of the
city of Porterville.
All members of commissions and legislative committees shall be appointed by the
council. The council may appoint members to other boards or committees.
Administrative officers may appoint members to temporary administrative
committees. (3-4-2003)
The council may, at any time, when in its judgment, the interest of the city so
demands, by a four-fifths (4/5) vote thereof, consolidate by ordinance two or
more city administrative offices and place the same in charge of one such
officer. (4-2-1963; 4-6-1971; 3-8-1983)
Sec. 14. Official Bonds; Where Filed.
When in this charter not otherwise prescribed, the council shall determine
which officers shall give bonds for the faithful performance of their official
duties, and shall fix the amount of said bonds. Such officers before entering
upon their official duties, shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum
required, which bond shall include any other office of which they may be ex-
officio incumbent. Said bonds shall be approved by the council, filed with the
city clerk, and paid for by the city; provided, however, that the bond of the
city clerk when approved as aforesaid shall be filed with the city treasurer.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the authorization or furnishing of a
blanket bond to assure the honesty or faithful performance of any of its
officers or employees. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 15. Oath Of Office.
Every officer and employee of the city, before entering upon the duties of his/
her office shall take and subscribe the oath of offices as provided for in the
constitution of the state, and shall file the same forthwith with the city
clerk. (4-6-1971; 3-4-2003)
Sec. 16. Vacancies In Office; When Offices Declared Vacant.
A vacancy in any legislative office, from whatever cause arising excluding any
vacancy created due to a successful recall election, shall be filled by
appointment by the council, such appointee to hold office until the next
general municipal election, when a successor shall be chosen by the electors
for the unexpired term; provided, that if the council fails to agree or for any
other reason does not fill such vacancy within thirty days after the same
occurs, then such vacancy shall be filled by the mayor; provided, however, that
if for any reason the seats of a majority of the council shall become vacant,
then the city clerk shall call a special election at once to fill the vacancies
for the unexpired terms, and the same shall be conducted substantially in the
manner provided for general municipal elections. (3-4-2003)
If, without permission from the city council, any legislative officer of the
city shall remove from the city or absent himself/herself therefrom for more
than forty-five (45) days consecutively, or shall fail to attend five (5)
consecutive regular city council meetings unless prevented from attending by
sickness (but in no case for a period exceeding ninety (90) days), his/her
officer shall thereupon become vacant. If for said forty-five (45) day period
any legislative officer shall willfully fail or refuse to perform the duties of
his office, though able to do so, or shall fail to qualify, or shall resign, or
be convicted of a felony or a crime of moral turpitude, or be adjudged mentally
incompetent, his/her office shall thereupon become vacant. (3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
Sec. 17. Appointment And Removal Of Officers And Employees; Grounds Of Removal;
Hearing Prior To Removal.
Except as may be otherwise in this charter provided, the affirmative vote of
three (3) members of the council shall be required for the appointment of or
the removal of any administrative officer for cause. "For cause" includes, but
is not limited to, refusal to perform the duties of his/her office, being
adjudged mentally incompetent, or being convicted of a felony or crime of moral
turpitude. The administrative officer is entitled to a hearing before the
council on the validity of the grounds providing the basis for removal for
cause. (3-8-1983; 3-4-2003)
The council may remove any of its administrative officers at its pleasure,
without cause stated or at hearing had, by the affirmative vote of four members
cast in favor of such removal, and the determination of the council in such
matters shall be final and conclusive. (3-8-1983)
Editor's note - Prior to its complete restatement by an amendment adopted March
8, 1983, § 17 had been amended February 5, 1935, and April 6, 1971.
Sec. 17-A. Retirement Age For City Employees.
Repealed March 8, 1983.
Sec. 17A. Retirement Age For City Employees Effective April 2, 1975.
Repealed March 8, 1983.
Sec. 18. Compensation Of Appointive Officers And Employees; Limitation As To
Least Amount Of Compensation; Fees Abolished.
The council shall fix the compensation of all appointees and employees except
officials and members of boards, commissions and committees serving
gratuitously. Said compensation shall be fixed, increased or changed by
resolution, adopted by a three-fifths (3/5) vote of the council. (4-6-1971; 3-
4-2003)
The duties or the minimum compensation of any appointive official shall not be
so established by the council as to in effect abolish the office.
The salary of any appointive official or employee of the city shall cease
forthwith with his/her removal or resignation from office or employment,
provided, however, that the city manager may be entitled, if authorized by the
city council, to severance pay in an amount not to exceed the equivalent of 12
months' salary, subject to any other restrictions set forth by state law. (3-4-
2003; 7-1-2014)
No officer or employee shall be allowed any fee, perquisite, emolument, or
stipend, in addition to, or save as embraced in the salary or compensation
fixed for such office by the council, if a council appointee, or the manager if
a manager appointee, and all fees received by such officers or employees in
connection with his/her official duties shall be paid by him/her into the city
treasury, and a written report made of same, provided, however, that rewards
which have been publicly offered for the apprehension of criminals may be
received by the officer or officers making the apprehension, after deducting
therefrom any expense that the city may have sustained in the matter. (2-5-
1935; 4-6-1971; 3-4-2003)
Amendment note - The first and fifth (now fourth) paragraphs of § 18 were
amended April 6, 1971. Formerly compensation was fixed, increased or changed by
ordinance. The former second paragraph of § 18, which authorized the city
manager to fix the compensation of his appointees, was repealed.
Sec. 19. Duties Of The Mayor Generally.
The mayor shall be the executive head of the city. In case of riot,
insurrection, extraordinary emergency, or other disaster, he/she shall be
responsible for making a public declaration of a state of emergency and shall
assume all other responsibilities required of him/her pursuant to the city's
disaster plan. (3-4-2003)
In the name and on behalf of the city, he/she shall sign all contracts, deeds,
bonds and other legal instruments in which the city is a party. (3-4-2003)
He/she shall represent the city at all ceremonial functions of a social or
patriotic character when it is desirable or appropriate to have the city
represented officially thereat. (2-5-1935; 3-4-2003)
In the absence of the mayor, for whatever reason, the vice president of the
council shall assume the duties as mayor pro tempore. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 20. City Attorney; Qualification; Duties; Assistant Attorney.
The city attorney shall be an attorney-at-law, admitted to practice as such
before the supreme court of the state, and who has been in actual practice
therein for at least three years next preceding his/her appointment. All other
things being equal, an attorney who has had special training or experience in
municipal corporation law shall be appointed to this office if practicable. The
city attorney shall be legal advisor of the council, and all other city
officials. He/she shall prosecute all violations of city ordinances and shall
draft all contracts and other legal documents and instruments, required by the
council or the city manager. He/she shall perform such other legal services as
the council may direct and shall attend all meetings of the council unless
excused therefrom by three members thereof or by the mayor.
When from any cause the city attorney is unable to perform the duties of his/
her office, he/she may, with the consent of the council, appoint some other
qualified attorney to temporarily act in his/her place and whenever in the
judgment of the council, the interests of the city require it, it may employ
assistant counsel.
The city attorney shall deliver all books, records, papers, documents and
personal property of every description, owned by the city, to his/her successor
in office, and the city shall provide a means of safe-guarding the same.
He/she shall possess such other powers, and perform such additional duties, not
in conflict with this charter as may be prescribed by ordinance. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 21. City Manager; To Become Resident; Powers And Duties; Bond.
The city manager shall be the administrative head of the city government. The
city manager shall establish residency in the city of Porterville within a
reasonable period of time within the discretion of the council. His/her powers
and duties shall be as follows:
   (a)    To see that all ordinances are enforced.
   (b)    To appoint except as otherwise provided in this charter, all heads of
departments, subordinate officials and employees, and remove the same, except
as otherwise herein provided, and have general supervision and control over the
same.
   (c)    Repealed. (4-6-1971)
   (d)    To see that all the provisions of all franchises, permits, and
privileges granted by the city are fully observed, and report to the council
any violation thereof.
   (e)    To act, as purchasing agent for the city, should he/she be so
appointed by the council.
   (f)    To attend all meetings of the council unless excused therefrom by the
council or mayor.
   (g)    To examine or cause to be examined, without notice, the conduct of
any officer or employee of the city.
   (h)    To keep the council advised as to the needs of the city.
   (i)    To devote his/her entire time to the interests of the city.
   (j),    (k) Repealed. (4-6-1971)
   (l)    Repealed. (3-4-2003)
   (m)    To possess such other powers and perform such additional duties as
are prescribed by this charter, or may be prescribed by ordinance. (2-5-1935)
   (n)    Repealed. (4-6-1971)
Sec. 22. City Manager Pro Tem.
In case of an illness, scheduled vacation or scheduled absence from the city of
the city manager, for a period of up to thirty (30) days, the individual
designated as the deputy city manager shall serve as city manager pro tem. In
the event that a deputy city manager has not been designated or the deputy city
manager is otherwise unable to serve, the city manager shall appoint one of the
existing directors of the city departments to serve as city manager pro tem.
(3-4-2003)
In the case of any other absence, excluding a vacancy of the city manager
position, from the city of the city manager, or his/her temporary disability to
act as such, the council shall appoint a city manager pro tem, who shall
possess the powers and discharge the duties of the city manager during such
absence or disability only; provided, however, that a city manager pro tem
shall have no authority to appoint or remove any city department director
except with the unanimous formal approval of all of the members of the council.
In the event that the city manager position is vacant, the council shall
appoint a city manager or acting/interim city manager in accordance with
sections 13 and 17 of this charter. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 23. City Clerk; To Be Clerk Of The Council When So Appointed; Duties; To
Keep Corporate Seal.
The city clerk shall be clerk of the council when so appointed by the council.
(3-4-2003)
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to attend all sessions of the council
and keep a full and correct record of the proceedings of each of said bodies.
The proceedings of the council shall be kept in a book marked "Minutes of the
Council." He/she shall keep a book marked "Ordinances" into which he/she shall
copy all city ordinances certifying that each such copy is a full and correct
copy of the original ordinance, and stating that the same has been published as
required by law. Said record copy, so certified, shall be prima facie evidence
of the contents of the ordinance, and of its passage and publication and shall
be admissible as such evidence in any court or proceedings. Such record shall
not be filed but shall be returned to the custody of the city clerk. He/she
shall also keep a book marked "Resolutions," into which he/she shall copy all
resolutions passed by the council. Both the books containing ordinances and
resolutions, shall be adequately and comprehensively indexed. He/she shall
conduct promptly, and keep a systematic record of all correspondence between
the council and third parties relating to city business.
He/she shall be the keeper of the corporate seal of the city, and shall affix
the same to instruments or writings requiring authentication. He/she shall
safely keep all records, documents, ordinances, resolutions, books and such
other papers and matters, as may be regularly delivered into his/her custody or
required by law or ordinance to be filed with him/her. (4-2-1963; 4-6-1971; 3-
4-2003)
Amendment note - The first paragraph of § 23 was amended April 6, 1971 by the
addition of the words "when so appointed by the council." The former fourth
paragraph of § 23 relating to the clerk's duties as assessor, was repealed
April 6, 1971.
Sec. 24. Director Of Finance; Payment Of Demands; To Check Annual Tax Roll.
The city manager shall appoint the director of finance of the city, who shall
serve as the general accountant of the city. He/she shall receive and preserve
in his office all accounts, books, vouchers, documents and papers relating to
the accounts of the city, its debts, revenues and other financial affairs. He/
she shall keep an account of all moneys paid into and out of the treasury; and
keep informed as to the exact condition of the treasury at all times. (4-6-
1971)
Every demand upon the treasury, before its approval by the council, must be
presented to the director of finance, who shall satisfy himself/herself whether
the money is legally due, and its payment authorized by law. If satisfactory,
he/she shall draw a warrant upon the treasury for the payment thereof. Every
demand approved by the director of finance shall specify on its face the
several items composing it, with the amounts and dates thereof. The approval of
the council shall not be necessary to draw warrants for the payment of regular
salaries of officials and employees of the city, or for payment of any
obligation previously authorized by law, or by resolution or order of the
council. (4-6-1971)
He/she shall render each month a statement to the council showing the financial
condition of the city, and annually a like statement covering all of the
financial transactions of the city during the year previous.
After the annual tax roll has been completed, and before it is deposited with
the collector, the director of finance shall make a check of the roll
correcting any errors that may be found and endorse same with his/her approval.
(4-6-1971; 3-4-2003)
Amendment note - The first, second and fourth paragraphs of § 24 were amended
April 6, 1971. Formerly the auditor was the general accountant of the city who
performed the duties set out in the section.
Sec. 25. City Treasurer; Appointment; Duties; Bond.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 26. Repealed April 2, 1963.
Sec. 27. Chief Of Police; Duties; Appointment And Removal Of Subordinates; To
Make Rules And Regulations.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 28. Fire Chief; Appointment; Duties And Powers.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 29. Collector; Duties.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 30. City Engineer; Powers And Duties.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 31. Office Of Purchasing Agent Authorized; Duties Of Heads Of Offices To
Submit Estimates To Agent; Duties Generally; Competitive Bidding; Preference To
Local Merchants.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 32. Street Superintendent.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 33. Qualifications Of Health Officer; Duties.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 34. Vacations.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 35. Additional Duties Of Officers.
Besides the duties herein specified, all officers and boards shall perform such
other appropriate duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or the general laws.
Sec. 36. Officers And Employees To Continue In Office Until Successor Elected
Or Qualified.
Until the election or appointment and induction into office of the officers and
employees in this charter provided for, the present officers and employees
shall without interruption, continue to perform the duties of their respective
offices and employments for the compensation provided by existing ordinance or
laws.
Sec. 37. Resignations From Office; Candidates For Office Not Required To Resign
From Other Office Prior To Appointment Or Qualification; When Resignation
Effective.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 38. Officers And Boards Having Power To Administer Oaths And Issue
Subpoenas; Contempt Proceedings.
Repealed March 8, 1983.
Sec. 39. Fiscal Year.
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on the first day of July of each
year, or at such other time as may be fixed by ordinance. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 40. Taxation To Conform To General Laws Of The State.
Except as otherwise herein provided the council shall, by ordinance, provide a
system for the assessment, equalization, levy, and collection of taxes, which,
as nearly as may be, shall conform to the system provided by the general laws
of the state; provided, that all sales for delinquent taxes shall be made to
the city of Porterville. Should the council fail to fix the tax rate within the
time prescribed, then the tax rate of the previous year shall constitute the
rate for the current year.
Sec. 41. Board Of Equalization.
Repealed March 4, 2003.
Sec. 42. Annual Tax Levy To Be Affixed.
The council, not later than its second regular meeting in August, shall fix a
rate of taxation sufficient to raise the amounts established by council action
pursuant to section 44. The council shall notify the county assessor who shall
thereupon compute and carry out the amount of tax so levied on each parcel of
property contained in the assessment roll for the city. (4-6-1971; 3-4-2003)
Amendment note - On April 6, 1971, § 42 was amended by changing the meeting
date from the first regular meeting in September to the second regular meeting
in August.
Sec. 43. Limitation On Tax Levy.
Repealed March 4, 2003.
Sec. 44. Limitation On Special Tax Levies; Enumeration Of Purposes For Which
Special Taxes May Be Levied.
The council shall have the power to levy and collect taxes, in addition to the
taxes herein or by general law authorized to be levied and collected,
sufficient to pay and maintain the sinking fund of the bonded indebtedness of
the city; and for the following purposes: (4-6-1971)
   (a)    For the support and maintenance of the fire department, for fire
protection purposes, at the rate of not more than three mills on each dollar of
the assessed valuation of the real and personal property within the city; (4-6-
1971)
   (b)    For the acquisition, construction and maintenance, as the case may
be, of permanent public improvements, of real property, of public buildings and
structures, and of public offices, including equipping and furnishing the same,
at the rate of not more than two mills on each dollar thereof;
   (c)    For the maintenance and support of free public libraries and reading
rooms in said city, at the rate of not more than two mills on each dollar
thereof.
   (d)    For the maintenance and support of free public parks and playgrounds
in said city, at the rate of not more than two mills on each dollar thereof;
   (e)    For music, entertainment, and promotion, at the rate of not more than
one mill on each dollar thereof. (2-5-1935; 4-5-1949)
Amendment note - The first paragraph and subsection (a) of § 44 were amended
April 6, 1971. In the first paragraph the words "at not to exceed the following
rates" was deleted. In subsection (a), the rate was changed from five mills to
three mills and the firemen's relief fund was eliminated as a purpose.
Sec. 45. Taxes And Assessments To Constitute A Lien; Foreclosure.
All taxes and assessments levied, together with any percentages imposed for
delinquency and cost of collection, shall constitute liens on the property
assessed; every tax upon the personal property shall be a lien upon the real
property of the owner thereof. The liens provided for in this section shall
attach as of the first Monday in March each year and may be enforced by actions
to foreclose such liens in any court of competent jurisdiction, or by a sale of
the property affected and the execution and delivery of all necessary
certificates and deeds therefor, under such regulations as may be prescribed by
ordinance; provided that when real estate is offered for sale for city taxes
due thereon the same shall be sold to the city in like case and manner, and
with like effect and right of redemption as it may be struck off and sold to
the state when offered for sale for county taxes; and the council shall have
power to provide by ordinance for the procedure to be followed in such sales to
the city and redemption thereafter.
Sec. 46. Disposition Of City Money.
All moneys collected for the city by any officer or department thereof shall be
paid into the treasury daily if possible, and at least once each week.
Sec. 47. Application Of Surplus Bond Money.
All moneys derived from the sale of bonds, including premiums and accrued
interest, shall be applied to the purposes for which the bonds were voted.
After such purposes have been fully completed and paid for, any remaining
surplus shall be transferred to the bond and interest redemption fund.
Sec. 48. Payment Of City Money; Expenditures And Indebtedness; Presentation Of
Demands; Warrants On Treasury.
No money shall be expended on behalf of the city, for any purpose, unless and
until the same shall have been authorized by a majority vote of the council;
provided that following every council election, the city council may, by a
majority vote, adjust the amount of money that may be expended on behalf of the
city, without prior specific council authorization. (3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
The city council, by resolution by a majority vote of the council, shall
establish the maximum amount of money to be expended on behalf of the city
without first requiring specific council authorization, except as otherwise
provided for in this charter; provided further that said maximum amount once
established by resolution shall not be adjusted until after each general
council election. (7-1-2014)
No indebtedness shall be incurred on behalf of the city, for any purpose,
unless and until the same shall have been authorized by resolution by a four-
fifths (4/5) vote of the council; provided that following every council
election, the city council may, by a four-fifths majority vote, adjust the
amount of indebtedness that may be incurred, on behalf of the city, without
prior specific council authorization. (7-1-2014)
The city council, by resolution approved by a four-fifths vote of the council,
shall establish the maximum amount of indebtedness to be incurred on behalf of
the city without first requiring specific council authorization, except as
otherwise provided for in this charter; provided further that said maximum
amount once established shall not be adjusted until after each general council
election, and then only by resolution by a four-fifths majority vote. (3-4-
2003; 7-1-2014)
Indebtedness evidenced by general obligation bonds shall be incurred by the
city only if approved by the city council and authorized by the voters as
required by the constitution and general laws of the state. (7-1-2014)
All demands against the city shall, before being paid, be presented to and
approved by the proper board, commission or officer, as herein provided.
Demands for which no appropriation has been made shall be presented to the city
manager, provided, that any person dissatisfied with the refusal of the city
manager to approve any demand, in whole or in part, may present the same to the
council, and the approval of such demand by the council shall have the same
effect as its approval by the city manager; and provided further, that if the
council shall provide for other boards or commissions, it may make provision
for the presentation to and approval by any such board or commission of demands
for liabilities incurred by them. (7-1-2014)
The council may provide for a revolving cash fund as authorized by ordinance by
four-fifths majority vote of the council; provided that effective January 1,
2004, and following every council election thereafter, the city council may, by
a four-fifths majority vote, adjust the revolving cash fund. The amount shall
be paid to the city manager, and used by him/her for the payment in cash, of
expenditures provided for in the budgets that cannot conveniently be paid
otherwise. He or she shall account to the council for all payments by him or
her out of said fund when making demand for the replenishment of the same, and
at such other times as the council may require, and they shall thereupon be
charged against the proper appropriations. (3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
All demands approved by the proper board, commission or officer shall be
presented to the director of finance, who shall examine the same, and if the
amount thereof is legally due and there remains on his books an unexhausted
balance or an appropriation against which the same may be charged, he/she shall
approve such demand and draw and sign his warrant on the treasurer therefor,
payable out of the proper fund. Objections of the director of finance to any
demand may be overruled by the council, and the director of finance shall
thereupon draw his warrant as directed by the council. Such warrants, when
presented to the treasurer, shall be paid by him/her out of the fund therein
designated, if there be sufficient money in such fund for that purpose. A
warrant not paid for lack of funds shall be registered, and all registered
warrants shall be paid in the order of registration when funds are available
therefor; all such registered warrants shall bear interest at the rate of six
percent (6%) per annum. The director of finance shall draw his/her warrants for
payment of municipal or other bonds payable out of the funds in the treasury
upon presentation and surrender of the proper bonds or coupons without approval
of anybody or officer. The council may make further regulations by ordinance
regarding the presentation, approval and payment of demands against the city.
(3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
Sec. 49. Monthly Financial Reports Required.
All officers required by this charter or by ordinance to submit monthly
financial reports to the council, shall submit the same in duplicate, and upon
their approval by the council, one of each of such duplicate reports shall be
posted forthwith in the office of the city clerk in such manner as to be
readily accessible to the public, and shall remain so posted until the approval
by the council of the next succeeding financial report when the same procedure
shall be followed in relation thereto. The council, in addition to such
posting, may, in its discretion, cause any of such reports to be published at
any time.
Sec. 50. Approving Illegal Claims To Forfeit Office.
Every officer who shall wilfully approve, allow or pay, any demand on the
treasury not authorized by law, shall be liable to the city individually and on
his/her official bond for the amount of the demand so approved, allowed, or
paid, and shall forfeit his/her office and be forever disbarred from holding
any position in the service of the city.
Sec. 51. Annual Budget Contents; Publication.
Not later than thirty days before the end of the city's fiscal year, the city
manager shall submit to the council an estimate of the expenditures and
revenues of the city departments for the ensuing year. This estimate shall be
compiled from detailed information obtained from the several departments on
uniform blanks to be furnished by the manager. (4-6-1971; 3-4-2003)
Sufficient copies of such estimate shall be prepared and submitted that there
may be copies on file in the office of the council for inspection by the
public, unless the council shall publish the same in a newspaper.
After duly considering the estimate and making such corrections or
modifications thereto as shall seem advisable to it, the council shall by
resolution adopt a general budget and such resolution shall operate as an
appropriation of funds to the amounts and for the purposes set forth in the
budget so adopted. At any meeting after the adoption of the budget, the
council, by a vote of three (3) members, may amend or supplement so as to
authorize the transfer of unused balances for one purpose to another purpose or
to appropriate available revenues not included in the budget. (3-4-2003)
Amendment note - On April 6, 1971, the first paragraph of § 51, was amended by
deleting the second sentence relating to classification of the estimated
expenditures.
Sec. 51A. General Reserve Fund; Purposes.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 52. Uniform Accounts And Reports.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 53. Written Investment Policy.
The city manager shall recommend and the city council by resolution shall adopt
a policy to govern the investment of all city monies, which policy shall be
consistent with applicable state law and shall, at a minimum, provide for the
investment of all monies in such a manner as to assure the preservation and
safety of principal and the integrity of record keeping; identify the types of
allowable investments; and provide for the safekeeping of securities. (3-4-
2003)
Sec. 54. Applicability Of General Laws.
All general laws of the state applicable to municipal corporations now or
hereafter enacted, and which are not in conflict with the provisions of this
charter or the ordinance of the city hereafter enacted shall be applicable to
the city. The council may adopt and enforce ordinances which in relation to
municipal affairs, shall control as against general laws of the state.
Sec. 55. Repealed April 2, 1963.
Sec. 56. Public Library.
The free public library of the city of Porterville shall be established,
conducted, carried on, managed and operated in accordance with rules,
regulations and ordinances passed and adopted by the council of the city of
Porterville. (4-7-1959)
Sec. 57. Park Commission; Composition; Term; Powers And Duties; Authority To
Accept Donations, Legacies Or Bequests.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 58. Pensions.
The council shall have and is hereby granted full power and authority to
establish, regulate, maintain, revise and amend, a retirement, disability,
death benefit and pension system, or either or any of them, for its elective
and appointive officers and employees of the city of Porterville and their
dependents. Authority and power is hereby vested in the city of Porterville,
its council, its officers, agents and employees to do and perform any act or
exercise any authority granted, permitted or required whereby the city of
Porterville may fully participate in a retirement, disability, death benefit
and pension system for its employees.
A system for retirement, disability, death benefit and pension rights for
employees and their dependents authorized by this section when established by
the council, shall not be terminated without securing the approval of a
majority of the electors of the city of Porterville at an election held
therefor, except as may be permitted by applicable state law. (4-6-1971; 7-1-
2014)
The city shall levy and collect taxes sufficient to pay all costs and expenses
required to be paid by the city of Porterville to enable the city of
Porterville to participate in any such retirement, disability, death benefit or
pension system established, set up or maintained by, for or on behalf of the
city of Porterville and the limitations of section forty-three of the charter
of the city of Porterville, with respect to levying and collecting of municipal
taxes, shall not apply to any tax authorized by this article. (4-9-1951; 4-10-
1961)
Amendment note - The second paragraph of § 58 was amended April 6, 1971, by
eliminating the former first sentence pertaining to employees of the
Porterville Public Library.
This section shall be construed in accordance with the California constitution
and shall be deemed to allow the city to create, eliminate, or modify its
pension and retiree healthcare benefits to the fullest extent permitted by the
California constitution and applicable law. (7-1-2014)
Sec. 59. Employment Of Certified Public Accountant To Audit City Books.
The city council shall employ a certified public accountant annually to
investigate the accounts and transactions of all city officers and employees
having the collection, custody or distribution of public money or property, or
the power to approve, allow or audit demands on the city treasury. (2-5-1935;
4-2-1963; 4-6-1971)
Amendment note - On April 6, 1971, § 59 was amended by the addition of the word
"council" following the second word of the section.
Sec. 60. Financial Interests Prohibited.
City officers and employees are prohibited from having a financial interest in
any contract, sales or purchases in accordance with applicable state law. (3-4-
2003)
Sec. 61. Competitive Bidding For Contract Work For Erection, Improvement And
Repair Of Public Buildings, Etc., Where The Amount Is In Excess Of Five
Thousand Dollars.
When a required expenditure exceeds five thousand dollars, it shall be
contracted for and let to the lowest responsible bidder after notice. (4-6-
1971)
As used in this section public project means a project for the erection,
improvement and repair of public buildings and works; work in or about streams,
embankments, or other work for protection against overflow; street sewer work
except maintenance or repair; furnishing supplies or materials for any such
project, including maintenance or repair of streets, sewers or water lines.
The council may reject any or all bids presented and may, at its discretion,
readvertise for other bids, or, the council may, after rejecting bids,
determine and declare by a four-fifths (4/5) vote of all of its members that
the work in question may be more economically or satisfactorily performed by
day labor, or the labor or materials purchased at a lower price in the open
market and after the adoption of a resolution to this effect it may proceed to
have the same done in the manner stated without further observance of the
foregoing provisions of this section.
The notice inviting sealed bids shall set a date for the opening of bids; the
first publication shall be at least ten (10) days before the date of the
opening of the bids; shall be published at least twice not less than five (5)
days apart in the official newspaper selected by the council.
In case of a great public calamity, such as an extraordinary fire, flood,
storm, epidemic or other disaster, the council may, by resolution passed by a
vote of four- fifths (4/5) of its members, determine and declare that the
public interest or necessity demands the immediate expenditure of public money
to safeguard life, health, or property, and thereupon they may proceed without
advertising for bids or receiving the same, to expend, or enter into a contract
involving the expenditure of any money required in such emergency, on hand in
the city treasury and available for such purpose. (4-10-1961)
Amendment note - The first paragraph of § 61 was amended April 6, 1971 by
increasing the amount from $2,500.00 to $5,000.00.
Sec. 62. Public Improvements.
The improvement widening and opening of streets, the planting, care, and
maintenance of trees, and the making of any other public improvement may be
done and assessments therefor may be levied in conformity with and under the
authority conferred by general laws; provided, however, that the council may by
ordinance adopt a procedure for the improvement and repair of streets, alleys
or other public places, the laying of pipes, or conduits or for the planting,
care or maintenance of trees, or for the removal of dirt, rubbish, weeds and
other rank growth and materials which may injure or endanger neighboring
property or the health or the welfare of inhabitants of the vicinity, from
buildings, lots and grounds and the sidewalks opposite thereto and for making
and enforcing assessments against property benefitted or affected thereby, or
from which such removal is made, for the cost of such improvements or removal
and may make such assessments a lien on such property superior to all other
claims or liens thereon, except state, county and municipal taxes, but no such
ordinance shall prevent the council from proceeding under general laws for said
purposes.
Sec. 63. Franchises; Limitation On Renewals.
Every franchise or privilege to construct, maintain, or operate, any means or
method of transportation in or over any street, lane, alley or other public
place within the city or to lay pipes or conduits, or erect poles or wires or
other structures in or across any such public way or place, for the
transmission of gas, electricity, or other commodity, or for the use of public
property or places now or hereafter owned by the city, shall be granted under
and in pursuance of the general franchises; provided, no new franchise or the
renewal of any existing franchises shall be granted except upon the condition
that at least two percent of the gross annual receipts derived from the use of
such franchise shall be paid to the city. In all cases the applicant for a
franchise shall advance the cost of advertising the same.
Every such franchise shall require the grantee thereof to agree to a joint use
of its property with others, wherever practicable, and nothing herein shall be
construed as prohibiting the council from requiring other conditions in
granting the same not inconsistent with the constitution and general laws. No
franchise or privilege so granted shall be sold, leased, assigned or otherwise
alienated, without the express consent of the council given by ordinance and
subject to referendum.
Sec. 64. When Franchise Required.
No person, firm, or corporation shall exercise any franchise or privilege,
except to the extent he or it may be entitled to do so by the constitution of
the state, or of the United States, in, upon, under, over, or along any street,
public way, or public place in the city without having first obtained a grant
therefor as provided in this charter and by general law.
Sec. 65. Newspaper Advertising And Printing.
The council shall advertise annually for the submission of sealed proposals or
bids from newspapers of general circulation in the city, for the publication of
all ordinances and other legal notices required to be published. The newspaper
to whom such contract is awarded shall be known and designated as the official
newspaper. The rates for publishing public notices shall not exceed the
customary rates charged for publishing legal notices of a private character.
(3-4-2003)
Contracts for legal advertising shall be awarded to the lowest responsible
bidder, provided no contract for legal advertising shall be awarded to any
newspaper except a daily newspaper of general circulation, as defined by the
Government Code. (4-6-1971)
Amendment note - The first paragraph of § 65 was amended April 6, 1971 by
inserting the word "legal" before the word, "advertising"; by substituting
"Government Code" in lieu of "Section 4460, of the Political Code." The former
third paragraph reading, "Required printed office supplies may be purchased
either through bids and contract, or by purchase in the open market," was
repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 66. Public Records; Delivery And Safekeeping Of Documents.
The public shall have access to public records kept and maintained by the city
in accordance with the law. (3-4-2003)
Sec. 67. Interference With Performance Of Duties Of City Manager; Interference
By City Manager In Elections.
No member of the council shall in any manner attempt to influence or coerce the
city manager in the making of any appointment or the purchase of supplies in
accordance with applicable state and federal law. (3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
The council shall deal with the administrative functions of the city through
the city manager. The council shall only have direct contact with the directors
of the city's departments for the purpose of asking questions. (3-4-2003; 7-1-
2014)
Any city council member violating the provisions of this section, or voting for
a resolution or ordinance in violation of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall cease to be a council member.
Additionally, any city council member violating this section may be subject to
civil remedies as specified in section 74. (7-1-2014)
Section 67.1. Political Activities By Legislative And Administrative Officers,
Employees.
Political activities of and campaign contributions by the city's legislative
officers, administrative officers, and employees shall be governed in
accordance with applicable state and federal law. All legislative and
administrative officers and all city employees are prohibited from engaging in
political activities during working hours. City officers and employees are
prohibited from engaging in political activities at their work place. (3-4-
2003; 7-1-2014)
Furthermore, city officers and employees are prohibited from engaging in
political activities on city properties, provided this prohibition does not
pertain to property that is otherwise open to the public for the purpose of
engaging in political activities. (3-4-2003; 7-1-2014)
Sec. 68. Leases Of City Property.
In every lease of city property the basic amount of rental shall be fixed by
the council.
All indentures of lease shall provide that the council may terminate the same
at its pleasure and repossess the premises therein described upon three months'
notice thereof and upon paying to the lessee the market value of any
improvements made or put upon said premises by the lessee. The market value of
such improvements shall be determined by a board of appraisers consisting of
one appraiser appointed by the council, and a lessee appraiser appointed by the
lessee.
In the event of their failure to agree upon the market value of the
improvements within thirty days from and after their appointment, said two
appraisers may appoint a third appraiser as a member of said board, and the
determination of the majority of said board of appraisers, as to the market
value of the improvements, shall be final and conclusive and binding on all
concerned. Should the two appraisers appointed by the council and the lessee
respectively, fail for forty days from and after their appointment to agree
upon the market value of the improvements or to appoint a third appraiser, then
upon the petition in writing of either party to any such lease, a judge of the
superior court of Tulare County is hereby empowered to appoint the third
appraiser upon such board; provided, however, that the council shall not
terminate any such lease or repossess any such premises except for a public use
and purpose; provided, further, that no lease of city property shall be made
for a maximum term of more than fifty years. (4-2-1963; 4-6-1971)
Amendment note - The second paragraph of § 68 was amended April 6, 1971, by
substituting "maximum term" in lieu of "term" in the last proviso clause.
Sec. 69. Inventory Of City Property.
At the time for preparing and submitting the budget, as prescribed by this
charter, a complete inventory of all personal property belonging to the city
shall be prepared and filed with the city clerk, and such inventory shall be
submitted to the council by the city manager at the time of the submission of
the annual budget. Such inventory shall be prepared under the direction of the
city manager, and all chief officials and department heads of the city shall be
responsible for making and transmitting to the city manager a full and correct
inventory of all city personal property in their possession or under their
control.
Sec. 70. Equipment.
Repealed April 6, 1971.
Sec. 71. Zoning Authorized.
The council of the city of Porterville shall have the power to establish such
zoning systems within the city as may in its judgment be most beneficial, and
in such zoning systems may prohibit the erection or maintenance of any class or
classes of buildings within certain areas, and may classify, and reclassify the
zones established. The council may also prescribe the character of materials
and methods of construction of buildings erected within any zone area, and may
establish setback lines as it may consider necessary and proper. (4-6-1971)
Sec. 72. Suspension Of Employees From Office And Fines.
Repealed March 8, 1983.
Sec. 73. Natural Or Other Disasters.
The city shall have in place a disaster plan, consistent with county, state and
federal policies, to be implemented in the event of an emergency or disaster.
Sec. 74. Violations.
This section shall apply only if a penalty/violation is not otherwise
explicitly provided for in the charter. A violation of any provision of this
charter shall be a misdemeanor with maximum fines and imprisonment as allowed
by law, except that such violation may be prosecuted as an infraction, at the
discretion of the city attorney. (7-1-2014)
Any violation of this charter may be prosecuted in the name of the people of
the state of California or may be redressed by the city through any legal or
equitable remedies; including but not limited to civil action and/or
injunction, or administrative citation in accordance with adopted city
ordinances. To the fullest extent allowed by law, civil remedies may be
utilized in addition to or as an alternative to criminal enforcement. (7-1-
2014)
The city shall be authorized to recover its full costs, including reasonable
attorneys' fees, for the enforcement of any violation of this charter or
municipal code. The city council is authorized to adopt any necessary or
appropriate ordinances to implement this section of the charter. (7-1-2014)
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-1: How Code Designated And Cited
1-2: Designation And Citation Of mendments To Code
1-3: Construction Of Code
1-4: Definitions And Rules Of Construction
1-5: Provisions Considered As Continuations Of Existing Ordinances
1-6: Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
1-7: Severability Of Parts Of Code
1-8: Catchlines Of Sections
1-9: Violations, Penalties And Enforcement
1-10: Violations Of Code Deemed Nuisances; Summary Abatement
1-11: Labor On Public Works During Imprisonment
1-12: How Notices To Be Given
1-13: Proof Of Notice
1-14: Territorial Limits Of Application Of Code
1-15: Procedure For Arrest; Arresting Officer Defined
1-16: Procedure For Arrest; Adoption Of State Law
1-17: Procedure For Arrest; Notice To Appear When Person Not Taken Immediately
Before Magistrate
1-18: Procedure For Arrest; Violation Of Promise To Appear; Unlawful
1-19: Claims
1-20: City Seal
1-1: HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED:
This code shall be known as the CODE OF THE CITY OF PORTERVILLE, CALIFORNIA,
and may be so cited. This code may also be cited as the "Porterville city
code". (Ord. Code § 1)
1-2: DESIGNATION AND CITATION OF AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Any ordinance adding to this code or amending or repealing any provision of
this code may be designated as an addition or amendment to, or repeal of, this
code. (Ord. Code § 1.2)
1-3: CONSTRUCTION OF CODE:
The provisions of this code and all proceedings under it are to be construed to
effect its objects and to promote justice. (Ord. Code § 6)
1-4: DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this code and of all ordinances of the city, the
following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council or the context
clearly requires otherwise:
   CITY: The area within the territorial city limits of the city of Porterville
and such territory outside of this city over which the city has jurisdiction or
control by virtue of any constitutional provision or any law.
   CODE: The Porterville city code.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time in which any act provided by law is to be done
is computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last
day is a holiday and then it is also excluded.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Porterville.
   COUNTY: The county of Tulare of this state.
   DAY: The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
   DAYTIME, NIGHTTIME: "Daytime" is the period of time between sunrise and
sunset. "Nighttime" is the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, AGENCY, OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE: When used herein
shall mean a department, board, commission, agency, officer or employee of the
city of Porterville.
   GENDER: The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   IN THE CITY: Shall mean and include all territory over which the city now
has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police
powers or other regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   MONTH: A calendar month.
   NUMBER: The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   OATH: Includes affirmation.
   OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean
Pacific Standard Time or daylight saving time whichever may be in current use
in the city.
   OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
   OWNER: Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by
entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PERSON: A natural person, firm, corporation, organization, company,
association, business trust, joint stock company, partnership, joint venture,
club, or the agent, servant, manager, officer, employee or lessee of any of
them.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property, except "real
property", as defined in this section.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROCESS: Includes a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial
proceedings of either a civil or criminal nature.
   PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory and "may" is permissive.
   SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the signer or subscriber
cannot write, such signer's or subscriber's name being written near the mark by
a witness who writes his own name near the signer's or subscriber's name; but a
signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two (2) witnesses so
sign their own names thereto.
   STATE: The state of California.
   TENANT OR OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of,
such building or land, either alone or with others.
   TENSES: The present tense includes the past and future tenses; and the
future, the present.
   WEEK: Seven (7) consecutive days.
   WRITING: Includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English
language, unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
   WRITTEN: Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed or multigraphed.
   YEAR: A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
The provisions of sections 13 and 1645 of the Civil Code of the state are
hereby adopted in the interpretation of words and phrases, unless otherwise
provided in this code.
Words and phrases used in this code and not specifically defined shall be
construed according to the context and approved usage of the language. (1963
Code)
1-5: PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
existing provisions relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as
reinstatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments. (Ord. Code
§ 2)
1-6: EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or
at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred
before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending
at the time of the repeal, for any offense committed under the ordinance
repealed. (1963 Code)
1-7: SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this code is
for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any
court, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this code. The city council would have adopted this code and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase and portion thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases or portions
be invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. Code § 12)
1-8: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS:
Chapter, article, division and section headings contained in this code shall
not govern, limit, modify or affect the scope, meaning or intent of the
provisions of this code. (Ord. Code § 7)
1-9: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any requirement of this code.
   B.   The City intends to secure compliance with the provisions of this Code,
and state codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable Chapters of
this Code. To the extent, in the City’s lawful discretion, that such compliance
may be achieved by less drastic methods of enforcement the following alternate,
separate and distinct methods may be utilized. Each method set forth herein is
intended to be mutually exclusive and does not prevent concurrent or
consecutive methods being used to achieve compliance against continuing
violations.
   C.   Whenever this code makes any act or omission unlawful, it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such
act or omission.
   D.   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this code is
committed, continued or permitted by such person, and said person may be
punished and/or held responsible accordingly. Each and every day any such
violations exist constitutes a separate offense.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, and state codes
specifically adopted by reference in the applicable Chapters of this Code, each
violation of the provisions of this Code may be enforced alternatively as
follows:
      1.   Criminal Enforcement: Unless otherwise specified in this Code, any
person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the
mandatory requirements of this Code, and state codes specifically adopted by
reference in the applicable chapters of this Code, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
unless the city makes a determination to prosecute as an infraction with the
concurrence of the city attorney. Written citations for misdemeanors may be
issued by police officers or by nonsafety employees designated by this Code.
Any person convicted of a misdemeanor shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
(6) months, unless a greater fine is authorized in accordance with applicable
laws, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. In the alternative and in accord with this section, any
person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any mandatory
requirements of this Code, and state codes specifically adopted by reference in
the applicable chapters of this Code, may be prosecuted for an infraction.
Written citations for infractions may be issued by police officers or nonsafety
employees designated by this code, and unless otherwise set forth in this Code,
or unless greater amounts are authorized by applicable state laws, fines shall
be assessed in the amounts specified in Section
2-144 of this Code. Unless otherwise specified, any person charged with an
infraction shall be subject to Division 17, Chapter 2, Article 2 of the
California Vehicle Code as it relates to promises to appear and the fixing of
bail.
      2.   Civil Action: The city attorney, or an attorney hired for such
purposes by and at the request of the city council, may institute an action in
any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain, enjoin or abate the condition
(s) found to be in violation of the provisions of this Code, or state codes
specifically adopted by reference in the applicable Chapters of this Code, as
provided by law, and/or may seek other available relief as prescribed by
applicable law.
      3.   Nuisance Abatement: Any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall be deemed a public
nuisance and may be, by this City, abated as such pursuant to Section 1-10 and/
or the applicable specific provisions of this Code.
      4.   Administrative Citation: Upon a finding by the city official vested
with the authority to enforce the various provisions of the Code, or state
codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable Chapters of this
Code, that a violation exists, he or she may issue an administrative citation
and proceed with enforcement pursuant to Chapter 2, Article XIV of this Code.
   F.   In any action, administrative proceeding, or special proceedings for
abatement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to its reasonable attorneys’
fees. Recovery of attorneys’ fees by the prevailing party is limited to those
actions or proceedings in which the city elects, at the initiation of that
action or proceeding, to seek recovery of its own attorneys’ fees. (Ord. 1537 §
B1, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1720 § 1, 5-1-2007; Ord. 1883, 5-4-2021)
1-10: VIOLATIONS OF CODE DEEMED NUISANCES; SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
   A.   In addition to the code enforcement remedies and penalties provided for
in this Code, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of
the provisions of this Code or any code adopted by reference by this Code or
any ordinance of the city not included within this Code, or any such threatened
violation, shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the City, abated as
such, summarily or otherwise; and each day that such condition continues shall
be regarded as a new and separate offense.
   B.   Any such violation or threatened violation as referred to in subsection
A above, or any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of
the provisions of any code adopted by reference by this Code, or of the
provisions of any other city ordinance, shall be deemed a public nuisance which
may be abated by the city in a civil judicial action.
   C.   In accordance with California Government Code Section 38773, the City
may summarily abate any nuisance at the expense of the persons creating,
causing, committing, or maintaining it and hereby authorizes the expense of the
abatement a lien against the property on which it is maintained and a personal
obligation against the property owner, in accordance with California Government
Code Section 38773.1 or alternatively Section 38773.5.
      1.   Proceedings pursuant to Section 38773.1: Prior to recording a lien,
the City shall provide notice to the owner of record of the parcel of land on
which the nuisance is/was maintained, based on the last equalized assessment
roll or the supplemental roll, whichever is more current. The notice shall be
served in the same manner as summons in a civil action in accordance with the
applicable law. If the owner of record, after a diligent search cannot be
found, the notice may be served by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous
place upon the property for a period of 10 days and publication thereof in a
newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the property
is located as required by that section. The lien shall be recorded in the
county recorder’s office in the county in which the parcel is located and from
the date of recording shall have the force, effect, and priority of a judgment
lien. The lien shall specify the amount of the lien, the City’s name, the date
of the abatement order, the street address, the legal description and
assessor’s parcel number of the affected parcel, and the name and address of
the recorded owner of the parcel. The lien may be foreclosed by an action
brought by the City for a money judgment. In the event the lien is discharged,
released, or satisfied, either through payment or foreclosure, notice of the
discharge containing the information specified in the lien shall be recorded by
the City. If the county recorder imposes a fee on the city to reimburse the
costs of processing and recording the lien and/or providing notice, the City
may recover any such costs from the property owner as part of its foreclosure
action to enforce the lien.
      2.   Alternative Proceedings pursuant to Section 38773.5: As an
alternative to the procedure set forth in subsection (1) above, the City may
abate a nuisance and make the cost of the abatement a special assessment
against the parcel. The City shall provide notice by certified mail to the
property owner, if the property owner’s identity can be determined from the
county assessor’s or county recorder’s records. The notice shall be given at
the time of imposing the assessment and shall specify that the property may be
sold after 3 years by the tax collector for unpaid delinquent assessments. The
assessment may be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary
municipal taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and
the same procedure and sale in the case of delinquency as provided for ordinary
municipal taxes. Subject to the requirements specified in the California
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 3691, the City may conduct a sale of vacant
residential developed property for which the payment of that assessment is
delinquent.
   D.   Recovery of Abatement Expenses.
      1.   In addition to any other recovery processes allowed by this Code and
other laws and regulations, whenever any person creating, causing, committing
or maintaining a public nuisance, pursuant to this Code, has been given notice,
by or on behalf of the city attorney or by any other city officer, employee, or
policing agent authorized to give such notice, to abate such nuisance or cease
and desist from continuing such nuisance or violation of law, and such person
fails, refuses, or neglects to comply with the notice within the time specified
therein, or if such time is not specified, then within a time reasonably
sufficient to enable such compliance, such noncomplying person shall be liable
to the City for any and all costs and expenses to the city involved in
thereafter abating the nuisance and in obtaining compliance with or enforcing
the law as referred to or encompassed within such notice.
      2.   The costs and expenses referred to in Subsection D.1. above, may
include, but are not limited to, any and all direct costs and expenses related
to such things as personnel salaries and benefits, operational overhead, rent,
interest, fees for experts or consultants, legal costs or expenses, claims
against the city arising as a consequence of the nuisance or violation, and
procedures associated with collecting moneys due hereunder.
      3.   The provisions of subsection D.1. of this Section shall also apply
to any person who received notice, as specified therein, abated the nuisance or
violations, but subsequently allowed or was responsible for a recurrence of the
nuisance or violation.
      4.   Money due to the City pursuant to this Section may be recovered in
an appropriate civil action. Alternatively, such liability may be enforced by
liens or special assessment proceedings as authorized by subsection C. of this
Section.
      5.   Additionally, recovery of Attorney’s fees is authorized in
accordance with Municipal Code Section
1-9.F. (Ord. Code § 13.6; Ord. 1883, 5-4-2021)
1-11: LABOR ON PUBLIC WORKS DURING IMPRISONMENT:
All persons confined in the city jail under a fine or judgment of imprisonment
rendered in a criminal action or proceeding may be required to perform labor on
the public works or ways in the city, or public works or ways owned by or
operated by the city and under such rules and regulations as may be promulgated
by the chief of police and the city manager. (Ord. Code § 13.3)
1-12: HOW NOTICES TO BE GIVEN:
Whenever a notice is required to be given under this code, unless different
provisions are otherwise specifically made herein, such notice may be given
either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be notified or by deposit
in the United States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to
such person to be notified, at his last known business or residence address as
the same appears in the public records or other records pertaining to the
matter to which such notice is directed. Service by mail shall be deemed to
have been completed at the time of deposit in the post office. (Ord. Code § 14)
1-13: PROOF OF NOTICE:
Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer or
employee of this city or by affidavit of any person over the age of eighteen
(18) years, which shows service in conformity with this code or other
provisions of law applicable to the subject matter concerned. (Ord. Code §
14.1)
1-14: TERRITORIAL LIMITS OF APPLICATION OF CODE 1 :
This code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the
territorial limits of the city and to that territory outside this city over
which the city has jurisdiction or control by virtue of the constitution, or
any law, or by reason of ownership or control of property. (Ord. Code § 8)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 2.
1-15: PROCEDURE FOR ARREST; ARRESTING OFFICER DEFINED:
For the purpose of sections 1-16 to 1-19 of this chapter, the terms "arresting
officer" and "officer" mean any policeman of the city and any other employee of
the city whose duty it is to enforce the provisions of this code and other
ordinances of the city and who is authorized by the city manager to use the
citation procedure established by sections 1-16 to 1-19 of this chapter in the
performance of his enforcement duties. (Ord. 668 § 1)
1-16: PROCEDURE FOR ARREST; ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:
Except as provided in section
1-15 of this chapter, the provisions of sections 853.5 through 853.8 of the
Penal Code of the state, as amended, are hereby adopted by this section and
made a part of this code as though fully set forth. (Ord. 1537 § B2, 8-6-1996)
1-17: PROCEDURE FOR ARREST; NOTICE TO APPEAR WHEN PERSON NOT TAKEN IMMEDIATELY
BEFORE MAGISTRATE:
   A.   Whenever any person is arrested for any violation of any provision of
this code or any ordinance of the city and such person is not immediately taken
before a magistrate as required or permitted by the Penal Code of the state,
the arresting officer shall prepare, in triplicate, a written notice to appear
in court containing the name and address of such person, the offense charged,
and the time and place where and when such person shall appear in court.
   B.   1. The time specified in the notice to appear must be at least twenty
one (21) days after the arrest, except that the court having jurisdiction over
the offense charged may authorize the arresting officer to specify on the
notice that an appearance may be made before the time specified.
      2.   In the case of juveniles, the court having jurisdiction over the
offense charged may require the arresting officer to indicate on the notice "to
be notified" rather than specifying a specific date pursuant to subsection B1
of this section.
   C.   The place specified in the notice to appear shall be either:
      1.   Before a judge of a justice court or a municipal court in Tulare
County who is nearest and most accessible with reference to the place where the
arrest is made; or
      2.   Upon the demand of the person arrested before a judge of a justice
court or a municipal court at the county seat of Tulare County; or before a
judge in the judicial district in which the offense is alleged to have been
committed. This subsection applies only if the person arrested resides, or the
person's principal place of employment is located, closer to the county seat
than to the municipal court or other magistrate nearest or most accessible to
the place where the arrest is made; or
      3.   Before an officer authorized by the city or the court of judicial
district to receive a deposit of bail.
      4.   Before the juvenile court, a juvenile court referee, or a juvenile
traffic hearing officer within the county in which the offense charged is
alleged to have been committed, if the person arrested appears to be under the
age of eighteen (18) years. The juvenile court shall by order designate the
proper person before whom the appearance is to be made.
   D.   The officer shall deliver one copy of the notice to appear to the
arrested person, and the arrested person, in order to secure a release, must
give his written promise so to appear in court or before a person authorized to
receive a deposit of bail, by signing two (2) copies of the notice which shall
be retained by the officer. The officer may require the arrested person, if
this person has no satisfactory identification, to place a right thumbprint, or
a left thumbprint, or fingerprint if the person has a missing or disfigured
right thumb, on the promise to appear. Thereupon the arresting officer shall
forthwith release the person arrested from custody. The thumbprint or
fingerprint provided by the arrested person shall not be used to create a
database.
      1.   Any person who signs a written promise to appear with a false or
fictitious name is guilty of a misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the
charge upon which he was originally arrested.
   E.   The officer shall, as soon as practicable, file a copy of the notice
with the magistrate or before a person authorized by the magistrate or judge to
receive a deposit of bail specified therein and a copy with the chief of
police, sheriff or other superior officer of the arresting officer. Thereupon
bail shall be set and the matter dealt with according to law. (Ord. 1537 § B3,
8-6-1996)
1-18: PROCEDURE FOR ARREST; VIOLATION OF PROMISE TO APPEAR; UNLAWFUL:
Any person wilfully violating his written promise to appear in court is guilty
of a misdemeanor regardless of the charge upon which he was originally
arrested. (Ord. 668 § 1)
1-19: CLAIMS:
   A.   Authority: This section is enacted pursuant to section 935 of the
California Government Code.
   B.   Claims Required: All claims against the city for money or damages not
otherwise governed by the government claims act, California Government Code
section 900 et seq., or another state law (hereinafter in this section,
"claims") shall be presented within the time, and in the manner, prescribed by
part 3 of division 3.6 of title 1 of the California Government Code (commencing
with section 900 thereof) for the claims to which that part applies by its own
terms, as those provisions now exist or shall hereafter be amended, and as
further provided by this section.
   C.   Form Of Claim: All claims shall be made in writing and verified by the
claimant or by his or her guardian, conservator, executor or administrator. No
claim may be filed on behalf of a class of persons unless verified by every
member of that class as required by this section. In addition, all claims shall
contain the information required by California Government Code section 910.
   D.   Claim Prerequisite To Suit: In accordance with California Government
Code sections 935(b) and 945.6, all claims shall be presented as provided in
this section and acted upon the city prior to the filing of any action on such
claims and no such action may be maintained by a person who has not complied
with the requirements of subsection B of this section.
   E.   Suit: Any action brought against the city upon any claim or demand
shall conform to the requirements of sections 940–949 of the California
Government Code. Any action brought against any employee of the city shall
conform with the requirements of section 950–951 of the California Government
Code. (Ord. 1737, 3-18-2008)
1-20: CITY SEAL 1 :
A common seal of the city is hereby adopted and described as follows:
Two (2) branches of oranges intertwined at the top, in the central space, and
in the margin surrounding the same the words: "City of Porterville,
Incorporated May 7th, 1902". (Ord. Code § 1151)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 4 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I. CITY COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
2-1: Time And Place Of Regular Meetings
2-1.1: Declaration Of Purpose
2-1.2: By-District Elections For City Council
2-1.3: City Council Districts Established
2-1.4: Implementation Of By-District Elections
2-1.5: Severability
2-2: Special Meetings; Notice
2-3: Rules Of Order
2-4: Disorderly Conduct At Meetings; Removal Of Offender
2-5: Citizens Addressing Council
2-6: Conduct Of Council Members Generally
2-6.1: Interference With Performance Of Duties Of City Manager
2-6.2: Political Activities Of Council Members, Administrative Officers, And
Employees
2-7: Order Of Business Established
2-8: Suspending Order Of Business
2-8.1: Redevelopment Agency
 
Notes
1 1. See Charter sections 8 and 9.
2-1: TIME AND PLACE OF REGULAR MEETINGS 1 :
Pursuant to section 10 of the City Charter, regular meetings of the Porterville
City Council shall be held on the first and third Tuesday of each month in the
City Hall, at 291 North Main Street in the City. The regular meetings will
commence at five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M., with closed session commencing at
five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M., and open session commencing at six thirty
o'clock (6:30) P.M. (Ord. 1792, 10-16-2012)
 
Notes
1 2. See Charter sections 9, 10 and 11.
2-1.1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The City Council of the City hereby declares the purpose of sections 2-1.2
through 2-1.5 of this article is to further the purposes of the California
Voting Rights Act of 2001 1 , as amended. (Ord. 1845, 5-15-2018)
2-1.2: BY-DISTRICT ELECTIONS FOR CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Members of the City Council shall be elected by-district in five (5)
single-member districts. One member of the City Council shall be elected from
each district by the voters of that district alone. Each member of the City
Council shall serve a four-year term until his or her successor is qualified.
   B.   The City Council member elected to represent a district must reside in
that district and be a registered voter in that district, and any candidate for
City Council must reside in, and be a registered voter in, the district in
which he or she seeks election at the time nomination papers are issued. (Ord.
1845, 5-15-2018)
 
Notes
1 3. ELEC § 14025, et seq.
2-1.3: CITY COUNCIL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The boundaries and identifying number of each of the five (5) City
Council districts shall be as described on the City Council District Map which
is on file in the City as exhibit A, and incorporated by this reference.
   B.   The City Council districts described in subsection A of this section
shall continue in effect until they are amended or repealed in accordance with
law. The boundaries of the City Council districts shall be reapportioned from
time to time as required by applicable law. (Ord. 1845, 5-15-2018; Ord. 1889,
3-1-2022)
2-1.4: IMPLEMENTATION OF BY-DISTRICT ELECTIONS:
   A.   The by-district system of elections shall be implemented, beginning at
the general Municipal election held in November 2018, as follows:
      1.   Members of the City Council shall be elected in Districts 1 and 2
beginning at the general Municipal election in November 2018, and every four
(4) years thereafter; and
      2.   Members of the City Council shall be elected in Districts 3, 4, and
5 beginning at the general Municipal election November 2020, and every four (4)
years thereafter.
   B.   No term of any member of the City Council that commenced prior to the
effective date of this section shall be affected by the adoption of sections 2-
1.1 through 2-1.5 of this article. (Ord. 1845, 5-15-2018)
2-1.5: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence or clause of sections
2-1.1 through
2-1.5 of this article is, for any reason, held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of sections
2-1.1 through
2-1.5 of this article. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
passed the ordinance codified herein, and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 1845, 5-15-2018)
2-2: SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE:
Special meetings of the City Council may be called by a written notice signed
by the Mayor, or three (3) members of the City Council, and mailed or
personally delivered to each member of the City Council and to each local
newspaper of general circulation, radio or television station requesting notice
in writing, not less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the time fixed for
such special meeting as specified in Government Code section 54956 et seq.
(Ord. 1537 § B4, 8-6-1996)
2-3: RULES OF ORDER 1 :
The proceedings of the City Council shall be governed under "Robert's Rules of
Order" on all matters pertaining to parliamentary law, but no ordinance,
resolution, proceeding or other action of the City Council shall be invalidated
or the legality thereof otherwise affected by the failure or omission to
observe or follow such rules. (Ord. Code § 1272)
 
Notes
1 1. See Charter section 10.
2-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AT MEETINGS; REMOVAL OF OFFENDER 1 :
Any member or other person using profane, vulgar, loud or boisterous language
at any meeting, or otherwise interrupting the proceedings, who refuses to be
seated or keep quiet when ordered to do so by the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem of the
City Council, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. It shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police, upon order of the presiding officer, to eject any such member
or person from the Council room. (Ord. 1537 § B5, 8-6-1996)
 
Notes
1 2. See Charter section 10.
2-5: CITIZENS ADDRESSING COUNCIL:
Any citizen may arise and address the City Council on any business specially
concerning them or affecting their interests, but preference will be given to
those who have first presented matters in the form of a written communication
or who have personally notified the President of the Council of their desire to
speak. (Ord. Code § 1274)
2-6: CONDUCT OF COUNCIL MEMBERS GENERALLY:
The members of the City Council shall remain seated while participating in
discussions and at all times during any meeting. They shall address their
remarks to the President and other members of the City Council and not to the
citizens who may happen to be in attendance. (Ord. Code § 1275)
2-6.1: INTERFERENCE WITH PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER:
   A.   As set forth in section 67 of the City Charter, no member of the City
Council shall in any manner attempt to influence or coerce the City Manager in
the making of any appointment or the purchase of supplies in accordance with
applicable State and Federal law.
   B.   The City Council shall deal with the administrative functions of the
City through the City Manager. The City Council shall only have direct contact
with the Directors of the City's departments for the purpose of asking
questions. No City Council member shall give an order or orders to any
subordinate of the City under the jurisdiction of the City Manager or other
such officers, either publicly or privately.
   C.   Violations of this section shall be subject to the penalty and
enforcement provisions set forth in this Code, including, but not limited to,
section
1-9 of this Code. (Ord. 1795, 3-5-2013)
2-6.2: POLITICAL ACTIVITIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS, ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS, AND
EMPLOYEES:
   A.   As set forth (and unless otherwise specified) in section 67.1 of the
City Charter, political activities of, and campaign contributions by, the
City's legislative officers, administrative officers, and employees shall be
governed in accordance with applicable State and Federal law.
   B.   All City legislative officers, administrative officers, and employees
are prohibited from engaging in political activities during working hours.
   C.   All City officers and employees are prohibited from engaging in
political activities at their workplace. Furthermore, all City officers and
employees are prohibited from engaging in political activities on City
property, provided this prohibition does not pertain to property that is
otherwise open to the public for the purpose of engaging in political
activities.
   D.   Violations of this section shall be subject to the penalty and
enforcement provisions set forth in this Code, including, but not limited to,
section
1-9 of this Code, in addition to any applicable State and Federal laws
restricting said activities. (Ord. 1795, 3-5-2013)
2-7: ORDER OF BUSINESS ESTABLISHED:
The order of business to be followed in conducting the regular meetings of the
City Council shall be established by resolution. (Ord. Code § 1276; Ord. 850 §
A, 1-4-1966; Ord. 1119 §§ A, B, 9-20-1977)
2-8: SUSPENDING ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The regular order of business may be suspended by a majority vote for the
accommodation of nonresidents who may have business before the City Council, or
for any other purpose. (Ord. Code § 1276.1)
2-8.1: REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:
   A.   It is hereby found, determined and declared that there is a need for a
redevelopment agency to function in the City in accordance with the provisions
of the Community Redevelopment Law.
   B.   Said Redevelopment Agency is hereby established pursuant to section
33101 of the Community Redevelopment Law, to be known as the Porterville
Redevelopment Agency. Said Redevelopment Agency is hereby authorized to
transact business and exercise its power under provisions of the Community
Redevelopment Law.
   C.   Pursuant to the provisions of section 33200 of the Community
Redevelopment Law, this City Council hereby declares itself to be the
Redevelopment Agency of the City.
   D.   The City Council hereby finds and determines that the designation of
the City Council as the Redevelopment Agency will serve the public interest and
promote the public health, safety and welfare in an effective manner in that
this public body is best able to serve the needs of the community to implement
the purposes of the Community Redevelopment Law. (Ord. 1227 §§ 1 - 4, 2-17-
1981)
ARTICLE II. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY
SECTION:
2-9: Enumerated Generally; Authority Of City Manager To Hire And Fix
Compensation
2-10: Reserved
2-11: Reserved
2-12: Uniform Of Police Officers; Impersonation Of Police Officers
2-13: Unclaimed Personal Property Which Comes Into Possession Of Police
Department; Inventory
2-14: Unclaimed Personal Property Which Comes Into Possession Of Police
Department; Inventory; Sale After Retention Period; Disposition Of Proceeds
2-15: Unclaimed Personal Property Which Comes Into Possession Of Police
Department; Inventory; Notice Of Sale
2-16 – 2-21.2: Reserved
2-21.3: Reserve, Auxiliary Policemen
2-9: ENUMERATED GENERALLY; AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER TO HIRE AND FIX
COMPENSATION 1 :
In addition to the officers provided in the charter of the city, there shall be
the following subordinate officers, assistants, deputies and employees:
Building inspector and firemen of the fire department to such number as shall
be determined by the city manager, with the approval by the city council;
Traffic officers, and such other police officers to such number as shall be
determined by the city manager, with the approval of the city council.
The city manager shall also be authorized to hire and fix the compensation of
such employees, assistants and laborers as may be necessary. (Ord. Code §
1311.1)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 13.
2-10: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1125, 1-19-1978)
2-11: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
2-12: UNIFORM OF POLICE OFFICERS; IMPERSONATION OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   A standard official uniform for all police officers of the city is
hereby established and set up under the following specifications:
      Blue shirt.
      Blue pants.
      Blue cap.
   B.   Any person, other than a duly appointed or elected police officer of
the city who at any time wears the standard approved uniform of a police
officer of the city, or any part of such uniform or a uniform or part of a
uniform similar thereto is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, not a duly appointed or elected
police officer of the city to state or represent either by word, act or deed
that such person is a police officer of the city. (Ord. Code § 1391.1)
2-13: UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY WHICH COMES INTO POSSESSION OF POLICE
DEPARTMENT; INVENTORY:
All unclaimed personal property which shall come into the possession of the
police department of the city shall be inventoried and a copy of such
inventory, signed by the chief of police, shall be filed with the
administrative services director, or designee. (Ord. 1537 § B6, 8-6-1996; Ord.
1614 § 1, 9-17-2002)
2-14: UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY WHICH COMES INTO POSSESSION OF POLICE
DEPARTMENT; INVENTORY; SALE AFTER RETENTION PERIOD; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
All unclaimed personal property which shall come into the possession of the
police department shall be held for a period of three (3) months, four (4)
months for bicycles, and if unclaimed at the end of such period shall be sold
at public auction, by the chief of police, or his duly authorized
representative, to the highest bidder for cash and the proceeds of such sale
shall be deposited with the city treasurer to the credit of the general fund of
the city. If any property is determined to be needed for a public use, such
property may be retained by the city and need not be sold. (Ord. 1537 § B7, 8-
6-1996)
2-15: UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY WHICH COMES INTO POSSESSION OF POLICE
DEPARTMENT; INVENTORY; NOTICE OF SALE:
Before making any such sale, pursuant to section
2-14 of this article, notice of such sale shall be given by the chief of
police, or his representative, at least five (5) days before the time fixed, by
one publication of a notice of the time and place of sale, and the articles of
personal property to be sold, in a newspaper of general circulation published
in the city. (Ord. 1537 § B8, 8-6-1996)
2-16 – 2-21:   RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
2-21.1: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1222 § A, 10-28-1980)
2-21.2: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1221 § A, 10-28-1980)
2-21.3: RESERVE, AUXILIARY POLICEMEN:
   A.   The chief of police of the city of Porterville is hereby vested with
authority to appoint or deputize reserve, auxiliary or deputy policemen.
   B.   Any individual so appointed shall be called a "reserve officer" and
shall serve in the legal capacity of a reserve officer of the city of
Porterville only during a specific police department assignment as from time to
time designated by the chief of police or his authorized appointee. (Ord. 1128
§§ 1, 2, 12-20-1977)
ARTICLE III. LOCAL PLANNING
SECTION:
2-22: Created
2-23: Composition
2-24: Reserved
2-25: Duties Generally
2-25.1: Employees; Appointment And Removal
2-22: CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a city planning agency, the same to be
known as the city council. (Ord. Code § 1441; Ord. 1360 § A(2), 8-19-1986)
2-23: COMPOSITION:
The planning agency shall consist of the city council. (Ord. 735 § 1; Ord. 1360
§ A(3), 8-19-1986)
2-24: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 666, 2-2-1960)
2-25: DUTIES GENERALLY:
The city council, as the planning agency, shall have all of the power and
authority and be subject to all of the duties, acts and responsibilities as
provided by the "zoning and planning law" of the state and the general laws of
the state, as are now in full force and effect or which shall hereafter be in
full force and effect. (Ord. Code § 1443; Ord. 1360 § A(4), 8-19-1986)
2-25.1: EMPLOYEES; APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
   A.   Consultants: The appointment and removal of consultants employed by the
city for the purpose of advising, aiding or otherwise assisting the planning
agency of the city shall be vested in the city council.
   B.   Other Employees: All other employees of the planning agency including,
but not limited to, assistants, deputies and clerks shall be appointed and may
be removed by the city manager in accordance with the charter of the city and
all ordinances and regulations pertaining thereto. (Ord. 753 §§ 1, 2, 1-15-
1963; Ord. 1360 § A(5, 6), 8-19-1986)
ARTICLE IV. CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
2-26.1: Appointment; Jurisdiction
2-26.2: Duties
2-26.3: Enforcement
2-26.4: Compliance
2-26.1: APPOINTMENT; JURISDICTION:
A duly appointed employee of the prevention division of the fire department, as
defined in Section 829.5 of the California Penal Code, the code enforcement
officer shall be authorized to perform the enforcement duties identified in
this article and as otherwise defined in this code. The code enforcement
officer will work closely with members of other departments, including public
works, community development, parks and leisure services, finance, and police.
The code enforcement officer will work closely with other local, state, or
federal agencies as needed. The code enforcement officer shall be under the
supervision of the fire chief, or his or her designee. (Ord. 1720 § 2, 5-1-
2007; Ord. 1899, 11-15-2022)
2-26.2: DUTIES:
The duties of the code enforcement officer shall include, but are not limited
to, issues involving property maintenance by abating hazardous conditions which
threaten the life, health, safety and welfare of the public. Duties include
enforcement of any statute, rule, regulation, or standard, and who is
authorized to issue citations, or file formal complaints. (Ord. 1720 § 2, 5-1-
2007; Ord. 1899, 11-15-2022)
2-26.3: ENFORCEMENT:
The code enforcement officer shall enforce the provisions of all applicable
state and city codes including, but not limited to, this code, the California
Health and Safety Code, business and professions code, labor code, uniform fire
code, uniform building code, uniform housing code and uniform code for the
abatement of dangerous buildings, as said codes may from time to time be
amended. (Ord. 1720 § 2, 5-1-2007; Ord. 1899, 11-15-2022)
2-26.4: COMPLIANCE:
The code enforcement officer shall make reasonable attempts to work with
property owners/residents to obtain voluntary compliance. However, the code
enforcement officer shall also have authority to issue citations and pursue
other legal remedies as necessary and as authorized by local or state law.
(Ord. 1720 § 2, 5-1-2007; Ord. 1899, 11-15-2022)
ARTICLE V. MUNICIPAL SERVICE CHARGES GENERALLY
SECTION:
2-27: Consolidated Billing
2-28: Inclusion Of Unpaid Permit, License, Etc., Fees
2-29: Discontinuance Of Service For Nonpayment
2-30: Use Of Service After Discontinuance
2-27: CONSOLIDATED BILLING:
Service charges for water, sewer rental, garbage disposal and refuse
collection, sanitary inspections in connection with the collection and removal
of garbage, refuse and waste matter and special disposal of the rates and
charges therefor as established by any provision of this code, ordinance or
resolution of the council shall be billed to the consumer or customer on one
bill or statement. (Ord. 717 § 1)
2-28: INCLUSION OF UNPAID PERMIT, LICENSE, ETC., FEES:
If any provision of this code, ordinance or resolution of the council provides
for and requires the payment by any customer or consumer of the municipal
services enumerated in section
2-27 of this article for any permit, connection fee, license, or charge or cost
for any sewer enterprise, sewer service, garbage, refuse removal, water service
enterprise, meter or distribution lines, the city manager is authorized to
include any unpaid charge for the same in the municipal service statement
referred to in section
2-27 of this article. (Ord. 717 § 2)
2-29: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT:
If all or any part of the statement or bill referred to in section
2-27 of this article rendered by the city to the customer or consumer is not
paid, with all penalties and interest, at the time, form and manner set forth
in the provision, ordinance or resolution of the council establishing the same,
the city may discontinue any and all service or services for which such
statement or bill is incurred or is rendered. (Ord. 717 § 3)
2-30: USE OF SERVICE AFTER DISCONTINUANCE:
If any municipal service referred to in section
2-27 of this article is discontinued by reason of failure on the part of the
consumer or customer to pay the same as required by any provision of this code,
ordinance or resolution of the city council, it is hereby declared unlawful for
any consumer or customer to receive any part of the service so discontinued
without making application for and receiving a permit to do so from the city.
(Ord. 717 § 4)
ARTICLE VI. FUNDS OF THE CITY 1
SECTION:
2-31: Reserve And Designated Funds
2-31.1: "Budget Stabilization" Reserve Fund
2-31.2: "Catastrophic/Emergency" Reserve Fund
2-31.3: "Facility Deferred Maintenance/Equipment Replacement" Designated Fund
2-31.4: "Capital Construction/Improvement" Designated Fund
2-31.5: "Infrastructure Deferred Maintenance/Improvement" Designated Fund
2-31.6: "Special Purposes" Reserve Fund
2-31.7: "Formal City Council Action" For Appropriations
2-32: Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund; Created
2-33: Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund; Created; Monies Paid Into Fund
2-34: Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund; Created; Expenditure Of Monies
In Fund
 
Notes
1 1. See charter sections 46, 47, 48 and 53.
2-31: RESERVE AND DESIGNATED FUNDS:
2-31.1: "BUDGET STABILIZATION" RESERVE FUND:
It shall be the policy of the city of Porterville to establish reserve funds
that shall be used for the purpose to mitigate, should it occur, onetime annual
budget revenue shortfalls (actual revenues less than projected revenues) due to
changes in the economic environment and/or actions by the county/state/federal
government that have a material effect on the city's revenues; and/or
expenditures that will result in future efficiencies and/or budgetary savings.
The "budget stabilization" reserve fund shall be maintained at a minimum of
fifteen percent (15%) of general fund annual budgeted operating expenditures
(excluding onetime expenditures), and may only be appropriated by formal city
council action with not less than four-fifths (4/5) of those voting in
agreement. If the city council takes action due to making a finding(s) of
material effects as stated above, it shall include findings of material effects
as further specified in section
2-31.7 of this article. Should the fund's balance fall below ten percent (10%)
of annual budgeted operating expenditures, then a plan will be established to
replenish the fund to the required level within three (3) fiscal years. An
initial balance shall be appropriated from the current unallocated reserve as
of the date of adoption hereof in an amount equal to fifteen percent (15%) of
the budgeted general fund expenditures for fiscal 2011-2012. (Ord. 1787, 4-3-
2012)
2-31.2: "CATASTROPHIC/EMERGENCY" RESERVE FUND:
It shall be the policy of the city of Porterville to establish reserve funds
that shall be used for the purpose to mitigate costs associated with unforeseen
emergencies, including natural disasters or catastrophic events. Should
unforeseen and unavoidable events occur that require the expenditure of city
resources beyond those provided for in the annual budget, formal city council
action with not less than four-fifths (4/5) of those voting in agreement, is
required of a budget amendment confirming the nature of the emergency and
authorizing the appropriation of reserve funds. The "catastrophic/emergency"
reserve fund shall be maintained at a minimum of ten percent (10%) of general
fund annual budgeted operating expenditures (less onetime expenditures). Should
the fund's balance fall below ten percent (10%) of annual budgeted operating
expenditures, then a plan will be established to replenish the fund to the
required level within five (5) fiscal years. An initial balance shall be
appropriated from the current unallocated reserve as of the date of adoption
hereof in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the budgeted general fund
expenditures for fiscal 2011-2012. (Ord. 1787, 4-3-2012)
2-31.3: "FACILITY DEFERRED MAINTENANCE/EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT" DESIGNATED FUND:
It shall be the policy of the city of Porterville to establish designated funds
that shall be used for the exclusive purpose of providing funds to support
onetime city facility deferred maintenance and/or equipment replacement costs
(excluding vehicles), such as, but not limited to, HVAC units, roofing, parking
lot overlays, painting, plumbing, electrical, and doors/windows. The city
council, by means of a resolution, may add, modify, or delete specific deferred
maintenance or equipment replacement categories. The "facility deferred
maintenance/equipment replacement" designated fund shall have no minimum
balance, but shall accumulate funds until appropriated by formal city council
action. The fund shall receive an allocation of one-third (1/3) of audited
general fund unassigned fund balance (actual revenues more than actual
expenditures). An initial balance shall be appropriated from the current
unallocated reserve as of the date of adoption hereof in an amount equal to
one-third (1/3) of the current unallocated reserve balance as of the date of
adoption hereof after the funding of the budget stabilization reserve fund, the
catastrophic/emergency reserve fund, and the initial funding of the special
purpose reserve fund, have been deducted from the initial unallocated reserve
fund balance. (Ord. 1787, 4-3-2012)
2-31.4: "CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION/IMPROVEMENT" DESIGNATED FUND:
It shall be the policy of the city of Porterville to establish designated funds
that shall be used for the exclusive purpose of providing funds to support new
capital construction and/or improvement projects as identified in the city's
ten (10) year capital improvement plan. The "capital construction/improvement"
designated fund shall have no minimum balance, but shall accumulate funds until
appropriated by formal city council action. The fund shall receive an
allocation of one-third (1/3) of audited general fund unassigned fund balance
(actual revenues more than actual expenditures). An initial balance shall be
appropriated from the current unallocated reserve as of the date of adoption
hereof in an amount equal to one-third (1/3) of the current unallocated reserve
balance as of the date of adoption hereof after the funding of the budget
stabilization reserve fund, the catastrophic/emergency reserve fund, and the
initial funding of the special purpose reserve fund, have been deducted from
the initial unallocated reserve fund balance. (Ord. 1787, 4-3-2012)
2-31.5: "INFRASTRUCTURE DEFERRED MAINTENANCE/IMPROVEMENT" DESIGNATED FUND:
It shall be the policy of the city of Porterville to establish designated funds
that shall be used for the exclusive purpose of providing funds to support
onetime city infrastructure deferred maintenance and/or improvement costs, such
as, but not limited to, streets/alleys, bridges, sewer, water, storm drain, and
curb/gutter/sidewalk. The city council, by means of a resolution, may add,
modify, or delete specific infrastructure deferred maintenance/improvement
categories. The "infrastructure deferred maintenance/improvement" designated
fund shall have no minimum balance, but shall accumulate funds until
appropriated by formal city council action. The fund shall receive an
allocation of one- third (1/3) of audited general fund unassigned fund balance
(actual revenues more than actual expenditures). An initial balance shall be
appropriated from the current unallocated reserve as of the date of adoption
hereof in an amount equal to one-third (1/3) of the current unallocated reserve
balance as of the date of adoption hereof after the funding of the budget
stabilization reserve fund, the catastrophic/emergency reserve fund, and the
initial funding of the special purpose reserve fund, have been deducted from
the initial unallocated reserve fund balance. (Ord. 1787, 4-3-2012)
2-31.6: "SPECIAL PURPOSES" RESERVE FUND:
It shall be the policy of the city of Porterville to establish reserve funds as
a line item of the annual city council budget that shall be used for the
purpose of providing funds to support onetime city special events, projects,
and/or purposes that benefit the community. The "special purposes" reserve fund
shall be maintained at a minimum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00),
and may only be appropriated by formal city council action with four-fifths (4/
5) of those voting in agreement. Should the fund's balance fall below one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in a fiscal year, then the general fund
will replenish the fund to the minimum required level at the beginning of the
following fiscal year. An initial balance in the amount of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) shall be appropriated from the current unallocated
reserve as of the date of adoption hereof. (Ord. 1787, 4-3-2012)
2-31.7: "FORMAL CITY COUNCIL ACTION" FOR APPROPRIATIONS:
For the purposes of sections
2-31.1 through
2-31.6 of this article, formal city council action shall require adoption of a
resolution. Said resolution shall contain the basis for a finding (or findings)
of materiality if required by any provision in this article. Additionally, said
resolution shall include finding(s) that the appropriation is within the intent
and purpose of the designated and reserve funds including, where appropriate,
one or more findings that the purpose of the appropriation is within the
defined purpose of the designated and reserve funds whether or not explicitly
stated in this article. (Ord. 1787, 4-3-2012)
2-32: SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND; CREATED:
To comply with the provisions of sections 2100 through 2127 of the Streets And
Highways Code of the state with particular reference to section 2113 thereof,
there is hereby created in the city treasury a special fund to be known as the
"special gas tax street improvement fund". (Ord. 1537 § B9, 8-6-1996)
2-33: SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND; CREATED; MONIES PAID INTO FUND:
All monies received by the city from the state under the provisions of sections
2100 through 2127 of the Streets And Highways Code for the acquisition of real
property or interests therein for, or the construction, maintenance or
improvement of streets or highways other than state highways shall be paid into
the special gas tax street improvement fund. (Ord. 1537 § B10, 8-6-1996)
2-34: SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND; CREATED; EXPENDITURE OF MONIES
IN FUND:
All monies in the special gas tax street improvement fund shall be expended
exclusively for the purposes authorized by, and subject to all of the
provisions of sections 2100 through 2127 of the Streets And Highways Code of
the state. (Ord. 1537 § B11, 8-6-1996)
ARTICLE VIA. REVENUE BONDS
SECTION:
Division 1. Generally
2-34.1: Revenue Bond Law
Division 2. Financing Industrial And Commercial Projects
2-34.2: General Statement; Definitions
2-34.3: Public Purpose
2-34.4: Contract Restrictions
2-34.5: Powers
2-34.6: Nonoperation
2-34.7: Request For Applications; Publication; Advertisements
2-34.8: Rules, Regulations And Forms
2-34.9: Applications
2-34.10: Processing Of Applications
2-34.11: Preliminary Undertaking
2-34.12: Undertakings
2-34.13: Nonagency
2-34.14: Resolution Of Issuance
2-34.15: Indenture Provisions In Resolution Of Issuance
2-34.16: Further Provisions Regarding Bonds
2-34.17: Compliance With State And Federal Laws
2-34.18: Sale Of Bonds
2-34.19: No City Debt
2-34.20: Net Earnings
2-34.21: Miscellaneous
2-34.22: Statement Of Policy, Severability
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
2-34.1: REVENUE BOND LAW:
   A.   This section shall be known as the CITY OF PORTERVILLE REVENUE BOND
LAW, and is enacted by the council of the city of Porterville under and
pursuant to the powers granted and reserved to the city of Porterville under
sections 3 and 5 of article XI of the constitution of the state of California
and sections 4 and 54 of the charter of the city of Porterville, and is enacted
for the purpose of establishing a procedure for the issuance and sale of
revenue bonds of the city of Porterville for certain purposes. This section
shall constitute a special procedure for the carrying out and enforcement of
the rights and powers belonging to the city of Porterville and such procedure
shall control and be followed in the issuance and sale of revenue bonds as in
this section so provided. This section fixes and establishes the entire
procedure for the issuance and sale of said revenue bonds and no other law
shall be applicable thereto.
   B.   Whenever the public interest and necessity so require, the council of
the city of Porterville may, acting under this section, by ordinance or
ordinances issue revenue bonds to provide funds for the acquisition,
construction, improving or financing of:
      1.   Any "enterprise" as that term is defined in the revenue bond law of
1941 hereinafter referred to; or
      2.   Any enterprise comprising a revenue producing improvement, system,
plant or plants, work, facilities or undertaking used for or useful in both the
collection, treatment or disposal of sewage, waste or storm water, including
drainage, and in the obtaining, conserving, treating and supplying of water for
domestic use, irrigation, sanitation, industrial use, fire protection,
recreation, or any other public or private uses.
The procedure for the issuance of such revenue bonds shall (except as herein
otherwise expressly provided) be the procedure set forth in the revenue bond
law of 1941 (commencing with section 54300 of the California Government Code),
and by this reference, with the exception hereinafter stated, the provisions of
said law are incorporated herein; provided, however, that no election to
authorize the issuance of such revenue bonds shall be required or held, and to
that end sections 54380 through 54387 of said Government Code are not
incorporated herein and shall not be applicable to the issuance of such revenue
bonds; and provided further, that the term "enterprise" shall have the meanings
specified in this subsection B rather than the meanings specified in section
54309 of said Government Code.
   C.   Reference is hereby made to three (3) copies of chapter 6 of division 2
of title 5 of the Government Code of the state of California known as the
"Revenue Bond Law Of 1941" and filed in the office of the city clerk of the
city of Porterville on October 3, 1972, and said chapter 6 of division 2 of
title 5 of the Government Code of the state of California as aforesaid now on
file with said city clerk is hereby adopted by reference excepting therefrom
article 3 of said chapter 6 and excepting as hereinabove provided. (Ord. 1026
§§ 1 – 3, 11-7-1972)
DIVISION 2. FINANCING INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROJECTS
2-34.2: GENERAL STATEMENT; DEFINITIONS:
This division, sections 2-34.2 through 2.34.22 of this article, shall be known
as the CITY OF PORTERVILLE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT REVENUE BOND LAW (sometimes
hereafter referred to as "this division"), and is enacted by the council of the
city under and pursuant to the powers granted and reserved to the city under
sections 3 and 5 of article XI of the constitution of the state of California
and sections 4 and 54 of the charter of the city, and is enacted for the
purpose of establishing a procedure for the issuance and sale of revenue bonds
of the city for certain purposes. This division shall constitute a special
procedure for the carrying out and enforcement of the rights and powers
belonging to the city and such procedure shall control and shall be followed in
the issuance and sale of the revenue bonds as in this section so provided. This
article fixes and establishes the entire procedure for the issuance and sale of
said revenue bonds and no other law shall be applicable thereto. Unless the
particular provision or the context otherwise requires, the definitions and
provisions contained in this section shall govern the construction, meaning and
application of words and phrases used in this division.
   ACQUIRE: Acquire, construct, improve, furnish, equip, remodel, repair,
reconstruct or rehabilitate.
   ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: The reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by
the city in the administration of the provisions of this division, including,
without limitation, fees and costs of paying agents, indenture trustees,
attorneys, consultants and others.
   APPLICATION: An application submitted by a company pursuant to this division
to obtain financing for a project under a project agreement.
   BOND: The bonds, including principal (premium, if any) and interest,
authorized to be issued by the city under this division, including a single
bond, a promissory note or notes, or other instruments evidencing an
indebtedness of obligation. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
bonds include any security issued hereunder, including any guarantee of such
security by any person given in relation to an issue of bonds, which satisfy
the following criteria:
   A.   Are issued as part of an issue all or a major portion of the proceeds
of which are to be used directly or indirectly in any trade or business carried
on by any person who is not an exempt person within the meaning of the internal
revenue code of 1954, as amended; and
   B.   The payment of the principal or interest on which (under the terms of
such obligation or any underlying arrangement) is, in whole or in major part:
      1.   Secured by any interest in property used, or to be used, in a trade
or business or in payments in respect of such property; or
      2.   To be derived from payments in respect of property, or borrowed
money, used or to be used in a trade or business.
   C.   Are issued as part of an issue substantially all of the proceeds of
which are to be used, with respect to any one or more of such facilities (none
of which shall be deemed to be restricted in scope because of the provisions of
any other state law), to provide:
      1.   For the acquisition or development of land as the site for an
industrial park;
      2.   For any facilities meeting the criteria set forth in subsections A
and B of this definition which the city can finance hereunder under the
exemptions in the internal revenue code of 1954, as amended, commonly known as
the "small issue exemptions";
      3.   Residential real property for family units;
      4.   Sports facilities;
      5.   Convention or trade show facilities;
      6.   Airports, docks, wharves, mass commuting facilities, parking
facilities, or storage or training facilities directly related to any of the
foregoing;
      7.   Sewage or solid waste disposal facilities or facilities for the
local furnishing of electric energy or gas;
      8.   Air or water pollution control facilities;
      9.   Facilities for the furnishing of water for any purpose if:
         a.   The water is or will be made available to members of the general
public (including electric utility, industrial, agricultural, or commercial
users); and
         b.   Either the facilities are operated by a governmental unit or the
rates for the furnishing or sale of the water have been established or approved
by the state or political subdivision thereof, by an agency or instrumentality
of the United States, or by a public service or public utility commission or
other similar body of the state or political subdivision thereof;
      10.   For any other facilities which the city can finance hereunder
without violating the applicable federal laws and regulations promulgated
thereunder pertaining to industrial development bonds.
The above definitions of the words "bonds" and "bond" shall be construed to
include all of the types of industrial development bond facilities that can be
financed on a tax exempt basis under the applicable federal laws and the
regulations promulgated thereunder, the details thereof, although also
incorporated in such laws and regulations, being omitted herein for the sake of
brevity; and, it is intended that the definition in this division will be
amended to correspond with any changes in said federal laws (but not in the
regulations or in the details of such laws). It is not intended, by including
any of the above definitions, to contravene any provisions of the city charter
and such definitions shall be so construed. Furthermore, some of the above
items are furnished by privately owned public utilities or private concerns,
and it is not intended to, nor shall any proceedings be conducted under those
provisions, without the consent of the privately owned public utility or other
private concern involved, as the case may be; or
   D.   Are issued as part of an issue substantially all the proceeds of which
are to be used with respect to any one or more of such facilities (none of
which shall be deemed to be restricted in scope because of the provisions of
any other state law) to provide facilities (for example, hospitals) which are
to be used directly or indirectly in any trade or business carried on by any
person who is an exempt person within the meaning of the internal revenue code
of 1954, as amended; and any company, who so qualifies as an exempt person, may
submit an application for financing hereunder; and any company, who does not so
qualify as an exempt person, may submit an application for financing of
facilities for operations by such an exempt person, it being the intent of this
division to encourage all enterprises, either within or without the city, which
broaden the employment opportunities for residents of the city and which serve
the residents of the city and so make it a more attractive place for industrial
and commercial ventures. While bonds issued to provide facilities described in
this subsection do not fall within the definition of "industrial development
bonds" as set forth in the internal revenue code of 1954, as amended, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder, such bonds shall be treated as industrial
development bonds for purposes of this division and may be issued substantially
in the manner set forth herein pursuant to appropriate proceedings being taken
therefor.
   BOND PROCEEDS: All amounts received by the city upon sale or other
disposition of any bonds.
   BONDHOLDER OR HOLDER OF BONDS OR ANY OTHER SIMILAR TERM: a) Any person who
shall be the holder of any outstanding bond payable to bearer; or b) the
registered owner or his duly authorized attorney, trustee, representative or
assigns of any outstanding bond which shall at the time be registered so as to
be payable other than to bearer. For the purpose of bondholders' voting rights
or consents, bonds owned by the city shall not be counted.
   CITY: The city of Porterville, California, a charter city in the state
existing under and exercising powers pursuant to the city charter.
   CITY CHARTER: The charter of the city of Porterville, state of California,
as amended from time to time.
   COMPANY: A person, partnership, corporation, whether for profit or not,
trust, or other private enterprise of whatever legal form, for which a project
is undertaken or proposed to be undertaken pursuant to this division, and may
include more than a single enterprise.
   COST: As applied to any project, may include, without limitation, any or all
of the following:
   A.   The cost of construction, improvement, remodeling, rehabilitation,
repair and reconstruction.
   B.   The cost of acquisition, including right in land and other property,
both real and personal and improved and unimproved, and franchises, and
disposal rights.
   C.   The cost of demolishing, removing, or relocating any building or
structures on lands so acquired, including the cost of acquiring any lands to
which such buildings or structures may be moved or relocated.
   D.   The cost of machinery, equipment and furnishings, and of engineering
and architectural surveys, plans, and specifications.
   E.   The cost of consultant services, including, without limitation, legal,
financial, engineering, accounting, and auditing, necessary or incident to a
project and of the determination as to the feasibility or practicability of
undertaking such project.
   F.   The cost of financing, including, without limitation, interest to be
paid on the bonds prior to, during and for a reasonable period after completion
of a project, underwriter's discount, loan fees, and reserves for securing
principal and interest payments and for extensions, enlargement, additions,
repairs, replacements, renovations, and improvements.
   G.   The cost of acquiring or refinancing existing obligations incurred in
connection with a project, and the reimbursement to any governmental entity or
agency, or any company, of expenditures made by or on behalf of such entity,
agency, or company that are costs of such project hereunder, without regard to
whether or not such expenditures may have been made before or after the
undertaking of a project by the city or delivery of bonds, all to the extent
that such costs may be legally paid from bond proceeds.
   H.   The cost of making relocation assistance payments by the company and/or
the city, as the case may be, all as provided by state law.
   I.   Any other items necessary or convenient for the project, whether or not
included within the above categories.
Except in the case of a company qualifying as an exempt person under section
501 of the internal revenue code of 1954, as amended, "cost" shall not
otherwise include working capital for a company.
   FACILITIES OR FACILITY: Property suitable for any one or more of the
activities or uses described in this division for which bonds can be issued,
and includes incidental facilities and appurtenances and appurtenant work.
   GOVERNMENTAL DEPARTMENT: Any commission, department, or agency of the state
or the United States of America with which, under any other act, the offer,
issuance, or sale of the bonds is subject to authorization, qualification or
registration.
   HEALTH FACILITIES: A structure or building suitable for use as a hospital;
clinic; nursing home; home for the aged or infirm; place providing healthcare;
laboratory; laundry; nurses', doctors', or interns' residence; ambulatory care
center; place for administrative offices; place in which to conduct research;
place in which to house maintenance equipment and supplies; storage place;
place in which to locate utilities; auditorium; dining hall; place for food
service and preparation; place in which to house firefighting equipment; place
in which to provide mental and physical healthcare and dental care; nursing
school; medical teaching school; and place in which to house offices; parking
lots, garages, and buildings or structures in which to house supporting
services; and all necessary, useful, and related furnishings, equipment,
machinery, and appurtenances, including, without limitation, the acquisition,
preparation, and development of all lands necessary or convenient as a site or
sites for any of the foregoing.
   PROCEEDINGS: The actions taken by the city in undertaking, carrying out, and
completing a project, including, without limitation, the project agreements,
indenture, bonds, and resolutions.
   PROJECT: The acquisition, financing or refinancing of facilities as
authorized by this division.
   PROJECT AGREEMENTS: The agreements between the city and a company respecting
a project, and may include, without limitation, leases, subleases, options to,
and installment or other contracts of, purchase, loan, and guarantee
agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds of trust, and security agreements.
   PROPERTY: Any land, easements, rights of way, air rights, water rights,
disposal rights, and any other rights, hereditaments, or profits of whatever
kind and nature, improvements, buildings or other structures, and any personal
property, and includes, but is not limited to, machinery and equipment, whether
or not in existence or under construction, and interests in any of the
foregoing necessary, incidental or convenient in connection with a project.
   RESOLUTION OF ISSUANCE: A resolution authorizing the issuance of bonds by
the city as further provided in section
2-34.14 of this article.
   REVENUES: All rents, purchase payments, and other income derived by the city
from, or with respect to, the sale, lease, or voluntary or involuntary
disposition of, or repayment of loans with respect to property, bond proceeds,
and any receipts derived from the investment of any such income or proceeds in
any fund or account of the city, but does not include receipts designated to
cover administrative expenses.
   STATE: The state of California. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.3: PUBLIC PURPOSE:
The city is hereby authorized and directed to engage in the issuance of bonds
for the accomplishment of one or more of the public purposes which it is the
declared policy of this city to achieve, all as provided in this division. Such
purpose or purposes shall be deemed to constitute a public purpose or purposes
of the city in which the city has a peculiar and unique interest, and the
exercise of the powers recognized in this division shall be deemed to be in the
performance of an essential governmental function and also a municipal affair
as those terms are defined by California law. Findings as to the reasons for
the adoption of this division, the public purposes to be achieved thereby and
other matters pertinent to this division are set forth in resolution 9572, of
the council, which is incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-
1981)
2-34.4: CONTRACT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No attorney or firm of attorneys employed as counsel by a company may
serve as legal counsel, including bond counsel, to the city in connection with
any project or proposed project for such company. No attorney or firm of
attorneys employed as counsel by an underwriter may serve as legal counsel,
including bond counsel, to the city in connection with any project or proposed
project for the company involved.
   B.   No person or firm employed as financial consultant, advisor or
underwriter by a company may serve as financial advisor to the city, and no
financial advisor to the city for a particular issue of bonds may purchase or
agree to purchase bonds from the city unless such bonds are offered by the city
at a public sale upon publication of a notice inviting bids. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-
21-1981)
2-34.5: POWERS:
The city is recognized to have all powers pursuant to and as may be limited by
the city charter which are necessary or appropriate for carrying out the
purposes of this division, including, without limitation, the following powers,
together with all powers incidental thereto:
   A.   To acquire property by purchase, exchange, gift, lease, contract, or
otherwise, including eminent domain.
   B.   To maintain property.
   C.   To dispose of property by lease, sale, exchange, donation, release,
relinquishment, or otherwise.
   D.   With respect to property, to:
      1.   Charge and collect rent under any lease;
      2.   Sell at public or private sale, with or without public notice;
      3.   Sell at a premium or discount above or below appraised value or for
a nominal consideration;
      4.   Sell on an installment payment or a conditional sales basis;
      5.   Convey, or provide for the transfer of, property without further act
of the city, upon exercise of an option; and
      6.   Sell at a fixed or formula price, and receive for any such sale the
note or notes of a company and mortgages, deeds of trust, or other security
agreements respecting such property;
provided, however, this subsection shall be operable only to the extent
permitted by the city charter.
   E.   To encumber property, including funds, whether then owned or thereafter
acquired.
   F.   To advance funds secured by loan agreements and charge and collect
interest on such funds.
   G.   To exercise all rights and to perform all obligations of the city under
the project agreements and resolution of issuance, including the right, upon
any event of default by or the failure to comply with any of the obligations
thereof by the lessee, purchaser, or other company thereunder, to dispose of
all or part of the property to the extent authorized by the project agreements
or resolution of issuance.
   H.   To borrow money and issue its bonds for the purpose of paying all or
part of the costs of a project, provided in this division.
   I.   To pledge the revenues or any portion thereof, and all other rights, as
security for the payment of any bonds so issued and for performance of
obligations under a resolution of issuance.
   J.   To contract and pay compensation for professional legal, financial and
other services.
   K.   To refund outstanding bonds when there is a finding that such refunding
will be of benefit to a company or holders of such bonds, subject to the
provisions of the proceedings for the issuance thereof to the extent permitted
by law.
   L.   To invest and reinvest funds, including bond proceeds, pending
application thereof to the purposes for which such bonds shall have been
issued, subject to the provisions of the proceedings for the issuance thereof.
   M.   To acquire and hold obligations of any kind and pledge or assign the
same as further security.
   N.   To fund administrative expenses:
      1.   By the establishment and collection of application processing and
other fees in such amounts as may be established by the council from time to
time;
      2.   By the acceptance of funds and other aid from governmental sources
authorized to provide such funds or aid;
      3.   By the acceptance of contributions from business, trade, labor,
community and other associations; and
      4.   By other legal means.
   O.   1. To make a loan and/or loans to a company pursuant to a resolution of
issuance and a project agreement, and such loan or loans may be secured by a
mortgage or such other security interests as deemed advisable by the city, may
contain the unconditional promise of the company to so make payments or may be
guaranteed by such other means as approved by the city;
      2.   To lease facilities and/or property to a company with an option for
the company to purchase such facilities and/or property at the end of the lease
term at such price as may be determined by the city;
      3.   To enter into lease-leaseback financings with companies on such
terms as may be provided in the resolution of issuance and the project
agreements; and
      4.   To enter into installment sale agreements with a company for
facilities constructed by the city, with title to pass from the city to such
company upon entering into such agreement or upon payment in full of the
principal and interest on bonds.
   P.   To exercise the city's right of eminent domain in implementing the
intent of the city by adopting this division, to the extent possible and in the
manner required in the city charter and applicable state laws. (Ord. 1232 § 1,
4-21-1981)
2-34.6: NONOPERATION:
The city shall not have the power to operate any facilities as a business.
(Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.7: REQUEST FOR APPLICATIONS; PUBLICATION; ADVERTISEMENTS:
Upon this division becoming effective, the city clerk shall publish in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city, a notice setting forth
substantially the following:
   A.   That the city has duly adopted and approved this division seeking to
promote industrial growth within the city so as to encourage increasing long
term employment for the residents thereof;
   B.   That on and after the effective date hereof, the city will accept
applications on forms approved by the city from companies interested in
entering into project agreements for the financing of facilities hereunder; and
   C.   That the city will review such applications and determine the
feasibility of each project so submitted, and will undertake to commence the
financing thereof as soon as practicable. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.8: RULES, REGULATIONS AND FORMS:
The council shall provide, by resolution, rules and regulations setting forth
the details of the procedures for the implementation of this division,
including therein, without limitation, a form of application, the criteria for
evaluation and approval of the applications, the procedures for processing
applications and the deposits, fees and charges to be made hereunder and the
uses of same, or any fund or funds derived therefrom. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-
1981)
2-34.9: APPLICATIONS:
Private industrial, manufacturing or commercial concerns may apply for
financing pursuant to this division by filing an application with the city on
such forms and with the city as specified pursuant to section
2-34.8 of this division and shall include, without limitation, all information
necessary to evaluate the financial reliability and stability of the
enterprise, to verify that long term employment of local residents, will, in
fact, be increased, and to determine that the city will receive a substantial
benefit that exceeds any detriment incurred. The application shall also include
the following:
   A.   An estimate of the maximum amount of bonds proposed to be issued, of
the sources of amounts otherwise required for the project, and an itemization
of the estimated costs and any other expenses;
   B.   The application shall be supplemented with a commitment by the company
to comply, and/or to assist the city in complying, with all state and federal
laws in the issuance of the bonds, including, without limitation, the making of
any required application to a governmental department, for authorization,
qualification, or registration of the offer, issuance, or sale of the bonds,
and any amendments thereto, and any permit or other authorization of such
governmental department, prior to the delivery by the city of such bonds;
   C.   The application shall be supplemented with a commitment by the company
to cause and/or to assist the city in causing to be printed any prospectus or
other written or printed communication proposed to be published in connection
with the issuance, offer, or sale of bonds, prior to the delivery by the city
of such bonds, and, if deemed necessary by the city, following the delivery of
such bonds;
   D.   All commitments by the company shall specifically provide for the
company to pay all expenses in connection with the issuance, offer or sale of
the bonds, whether or not they are finally issued, to hold the city harmless
from any and all expenses and liabilities related thereto and to pay items on
an ongoing basis so that neither the city, nor its advisors, attorneys,
employees and the like will accumulate any claims against the city; and
   E.   All additional information, agreements and undertakings as the city may
require which are submitted to the city by a company shall be reproduced in
written, printed, or other tangible form, shall be supplied in as many copies
as the city prescribes and shall be deemed supplements or amendments to the
application. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.10: PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applications for projects by companies not reasonably in accordance
with the requirements of this division need not be accepted and further
processed.
   B.   Receipt of any application in no way obligates the city to
preliminarily undertake the project proposed.
   C.   Upon receipt of any applications, the city shall review each
application and shall determine compliance with the purposes of this division
and with the criteria established pursuant hereto, and such review shall
include the making of the appropriate determinations, including, without
limitation, the determination that it is likely that the undertaking of the
project by the city will be a substantial factor in the accrual of each of the
public benefits from the use of the facilities as proposed in the application.
   D.   Upon an affirmative determination under subdivision C of this section,
a copy of the application, as then amended or supplemented, so certified by the
city clerk, shall be entered into the records of the city, and a notice of the
acceptance of the application naming the company, stating the estimated maximum
bond issue and briefly summarizing the proposed project, shall be published
pursuant to section 6061 of the Government Code.
   E.   The company, not the city, shall be deemed the proposer of any project,
a copy of the application for which is filed pursuant to section
2-34.9 of this division.
   F.   Upon such approval, and certification thereof by the city clerk, all
proceedings necessary to comply with the California environmental quality act
(CEQA) of 1970, as amended, any zoning, building code or other requirements of
law shall be taken or completed, as the case may be, at the expense of the
company. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.11: PRELIMINARY UNDERTAKING:
   A.   A project shall be deemed to have been preliminarily undertaken by the
city when the application has been reviewed, processed as above set forth, the
affirmative determinations above required have been made, the approval of the
city has been obtained, a period of thirty (30) days from the date of
publication of the notice referred to in subsection
2-34.10D of this article has expired, and no requests have been received by the
city clerk for a public hearing pursuant to the publication of such notice.
Should requests be received for a public hearing on the matter, the council
shall hold such a hearing as soon as is reasonably practicable. A further
notice shall be given of such public hearing pursuant to section 6061 of the
Government Code. If, after such public hearing, the council decides to proceed,
the project shall be deemed to have been preliminarily undertaken; provided,
however, nothing herein shall be deemed to commit the city to proceeding, if as
result of the public hearing, the council decides not to proceed.
   B.   Preliminarily undertaking a project in no way obligates the city to
undertake a project by entry into project agreements.
   C.   The council may decide to hold the public hearing referred to in
subsection A of this section, and if so, the thirty (30) day waiting period in
subsection A of this section shall not apply.
   D.   The council may, as it deems necessary in certain instances, approve
any particular application, regardless of the form thereof, without complying
with sections
2-34.7 and
2-34.8 of this article, and subsections A, B and C of this section. (Ord. 1232
§ 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.12: UNDERTAKINGS:
The city shall undertake projects by entry into project agreements in substance
not inconsistent with the following:
   A.   The company shall comply with all legal requirements relating to the
project and the operation, repair and maintenance of the facility, including:
      1.   Obtaining any rezonings or variances, building, development,
environmental and other permits and approvals, and licenses and other
entitlements for use, without regard to any exemption for public projects;
      2.   Securing the issuance of any certificates of need, convenience, and
necessity or other certificates or franchises required by the state;
      3.   Qualifying and/or registering any nonexempt issue, offer, or sale of
any bonds or other security proposed to be issued by the company or others
(including the city) in connection with the project; and
      4.   Providing satisfactory evidence of compliance with this section.
   B.   The company shall provide, or cause to be provided by others, all
amounts required for the project and all property of the project which are not
to be provided as or by expenditure of bond proceeds, and in the case of any
such amounts and property which the company proposes to cause to be provided by
others, as by contract, grant subsidy, loan, or other form of assistance, shall
provide satisfactory evidence that such amounts and property will be provided
when required.
   C.   Expenditure of bond proceeds shall be supervised to ensure proper
application to the project.
   D.   The company shall, at its own expense, insure, repair and maintain the
facility, pay such taxes with respect to its interests in the property of the
project as is then required by law, and pay any assessments and other public
charges secured by liens, upon such interests as constitute the tax base for
property taxation (regardless of any exemption which may be provided from
property taxes), on the same basis as other property of similar character.
   E.   The amounts payable by a company to, or for, the benefit of the city
shall, in the aggregate, not be less than amounts sufficient:
      1.   To pay any bonds that shall be issued by the city to pay the costs
of the project, and
      2.   To pay those administrative expenses which relate to the
administration of the project agreements, the resolution of issuance and the
bonds.
   F.   The term of the project agreements shall extend at least until the date
on which all such bonds and all other obligations incurred by the city in
connection with a project shall have been paid in full or adequate funds for
such payment shall have been otherwise provided.
   G.   Such additional provisions as in the determination of the city are
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this division,
including, without limitation, provisions:
      1.   For payments by a company which include amounts for administrative
expenses, in addition to the amounts which the agreement is required to
obligate the company to pay, which are incurred by the city subsequent to the
preliminary undertaking of the project by the city.
      2.   For payment before a facility exists or becomes functional, or after
a facility has ceased to exist or be functional to any extent and from any
cause.
      3.   For payment regardless as to whether or not the company is in
possession or is entitled to be in possession of the facility.
      4.   Relating to the carrying out and completion of the project,
including the allocation of responsibility between the city and the company
regarding the acquisition of property, the making of other purchases, and the
contracting for construction of the project, with or without competitive
bidding, and the payment therefor.
      5.   That some or all of the obligations of a company shall be
unconditional and shall be binding and enforceable in all circumstances
whatsoever, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
      6.   Relating to the use, maintenance, repair, insurance, and replacement
of property of the project, such as the city and the company deem necessary for
the protection of themselves or others, including, but not limited to,
liability insurance, indemnification, and events of default.
      7.   That the company shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against
the claims and demands of all persons arising in any manner from the project,
the project agreements, the facilities, the property, its operation,
maintenance, repair and the like, including, without limitation, alleged
violations of any state or federal law relating thereto or relating to this
article or any acts taken under this article.
      8.   For the payment of fees, charges, or deposits for the purpose of
establishing and maintaining such common reserve fund or funds as may be deemed
necessary or desirable to secure the city's bonds issued hereunder, pursuant to
rules and regulations governing the derivation, operation and use of such
common reserve fund or funds. One or more common reserve funds may be
established by the city for any or all of its bonds. The liability of any such
common reserve fund with respect to any single issue of bonds of the city may
not exceed the sum of the unpaid principal, interest, and premium, if any, of
the outstanding bonds of such issue. Each common reserve fund established
pursuant to this section shall be established by the administrative services
director or designee. All interest or other increment earned by investment or
deposit of monies in such fund shall be credited to, and deposited in, such
fund.
   H.   The company shall provide for the payment of any relocation assistance
required by law and shall reimburse the city, as the case may be, for
relocation assistance services.
   I.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, projects
developed pursuant to this division shall be consistent with the requirements
of the general plan of the city and any applicable redevelopment plan.
   J.   In any project agreement entered into by the city for the financing or
refinancing of health facilities, the company shall agree that, to the extent
feasible, the company shall pass through to the patients at such health
facilities in the form of lower patient charges, the interest cost savings
achieved by the company as a result of the city issuing bonds for the financing
or refinancing of such health facilities.
   K.   In any project agreement entered into by the city for the financing or
refinancing of health facilities, the company shall agree to obtain all
necessary health planning approvals with respect to the health facilities
proposed to be financed or refinanced by the city. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981;
Ord. 1614 § 1, 9-17-2002)
2-34.13: NONAGENCY:
No company shall, by reason of any project agreement, be deemed the agent of
the city in the carrying out of such agreement. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.14: RESOLUTION OF ISSUANCE:
The issuance of bonds shall be authorized by the council by a resolution of
issuance. The resolution of issuance may contain such terms and conditions of
the bonds as the council deems advisable and in accordance with the provisions
of this division, including, but not limited to:
   A.   The type, denominations, terms and maturities of the bonds as the city
may deem appropriate.
   B.   For the bonds to be in either registered or bearer form either as to
principal or interest or both and carry such conversion and reconversion
privileges as the city may deem appropriate.
   C.   For bonds to be payable as serial or term bonds in such installments as
may be set forth therein and at such time or times not exceeding forty (40)
years from the date thereof.
   D.   For the bonds to be payable in such mediums and at such place or places
within or without the state as the city may deem appropriate.
   E.   For the bonds to bear interest at such rate or rates (or variable
rates, as the case may be) per annum not to exceed those specified in the
proceedings, payable at such time or times and at such place or places within
or without the state and evidenced in such manner as the city may deem
appropriate.
   F.   For the bonds to be exchangeable for, or issuable in lieu of, such
bonds.
   G.   For bonds to be signed on behalf of the city by facsimile signature of
the mayor and by manual signature of the city clerk, and the seal of the city
shall be impressed, imprinted and reproduced thereon. The interest coupons on
the bonds shall be signed by facsimile signature of the city clerk. The
foregoing officers shall be authorized and directed to sign the bonds and
coupons in accordance with this section. If any city official whose manual or
facsimile signature appears on the bonds or coupons ceases to be such member or
officer before delivery of the bonds, such signature is as effective as if such
official had remained in office. In lieu of the manual signature of the city
clerk on the bonds, they may be authenticated by the manual signature of a duly
authorized officer of the trustee on the particular bond issue involved.
   H.   If deemed advisable by the city, there may be retained in the
proceedings an option to redeem prior to maturity all or any part of any bonds
as may be specified in such proceedings, at such price or prices and after such
notice or notices and on such terms and conditions as may be set forth in such
proceedings and as may be briefly recited in the bond. Nothing in this division
shall be construed to confer on the city any right or option to redeem any
bonds, except as may be provided in the proceedings under which they shall have
been issued.
   I.   For the fixing and collection of revenues.
   J.   For the creation and maintenance of special funds from such revenues,
including reserve and sinking funds.
   K.   For limitations on expenditures of bond proceeds.
   L.   For the procedure by which any contract represented by bonds may be
amended or abrogated.
   M.   For the acts and omissions which shall constitute, and the rights and
remedies available in, an event of default. In such an event of default, the
obligations of the city may be enforced by mandamus, by the appointment of a
receiver, by foreclosure of, or sale under, any resolution of issuance, by
injunction, by specific performance, by equitable relief, or by any one or more
of such remedies, or any other appropriate remedy authorized by law.
   N.   Limitations on the issuance of additional bonds, the terms upon which
additional bonds may be issued and secured, and the refunding of outstanding
bonds.
   O.   The procedure, if any, by which the terms of any contract with
bondholders may be amended or abrogated, the amount of bonds the holders of
which must consent thereto, and the manner in which such consent may be given.
   P.   For the payment of administrative expenses or other expenses of the
city.
   Q.   Specification of the acts or omissions to act which shall constitute a
default in the duties of the city to holders of the bands, and providing the
rights and remedies of such holders in the event of default.
   R.   Issuing bonds in temporary form pending preparation of bonds in
definitive form, at which time such temporary bonds shall be exchanged for
definitive bonds in bearer or fully registered form.
   S.   For any additional matters authorized to be included in the indenture
provisions of a resolution of issuance or which relate to the security,
protection, or remedies of bondholders, or which tend to make the bonds more
marketable.
   T.   The bonds to contain such provisions not inconsistent with this
division as the city may deem appropriate which are for the protection of the
city or the bondholders or which tend to make the bonds more marketable. (Ord.
1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.15: INDENTURE PROVISIONS IN RESOLUTION OF ISSUANCE:
In the discretion of the city, any bonds issued under the provisions of this
division may be secured by indenture provisions in the resolution of issuance
by and between the city and a corporate trustee or trustees, which may be any
trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within the state,
and the resolution of issuance may contain such provisions which are
customarily found in indentures, including, without limitation, the provisions
hereinafter set forth. Such resolution of issuance may vest in bondholders the
right to remove and appoint a new trustee or trustees. The trustee or trustees
may, at any time, own all or any part of the bonds, unless otherwise provided
in the resolution of issuance. Such resolution of issuance may vest in such
trustee or trustees, in trust or as agents, as provided therein and as
consistent with other provisions of this section, property, rights, powers and
duties, and may provide that the revenues and any other rights be pledged as
security for repayment of the bonds, subject to such agreements with
bondholders as may then exist. Such resolution of issuance may contain
covenants of the city as to the acquisition of property, the disposition of any
property, or part thereof, the subjecting of additional property to the lien
thereof, the issuance of additional bonds, the custody, investment and
application of all monies, the creation and maintenance of reserves, the
disposition of insurance or condemnation proceeds, and the use of surplus bond
proceeds. Any such resolution of issuance may define events of default
thereunder, which may include events of default by a company under the project
agreements, may specify the action to be taken by the city upon an event of
default, may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the
trustee or trustees, and may restrict the individual right of action by
bondholders. In addition, any such resolution of issuance may contain such
other provisions as the city may seem reasonable and proper and which relate in
any way to the security or protection of bondholders. All expenses incurred in
carrying out the provisions of such resolution of issuance shall be treated as
an administrative expense. Any interest in property established by any
resolution of issuance shall be valid and binding from the date thereof, and
any revenues or amounts to cover administrative expenses received by, or on
behalf of, the city thereunder shall immediately be subject to the lien thereof
without any further act, which lien shall be valid and binding as against all
persons, irrespective of notice, without any filing or recording except a
filing in the records of the city. All revenues, excepting (unless otherwise
provided) bond proceeds, shall further be deemed to be trust funds and all
revenues shall be held and applied solely as provided in such resolution of
issuance, but no bondholder shall, as such, be in any manner obligated to see
to the proper application thereof. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.16: FURTHER PROVISIONS REGARDING BONDS:
All bonds issued by the city for a project shall be special obligations only of
the city, payable solely from the revenues or from the other sources specified
in the proceedings. In addition and without limitation to the other provisions
of this division:
   A.   The bond may be executed and delivered by the city at any time and from
time to time.
   B.   The issuance by the city of one or more issues of bonds for one or more
purposes shall not preclude it from issuing other bonds in connection with the
same project or any other project, subject to such agreements with bondholders
as may then exist.
   C.   Any bonds of the city issued hereunder at any time outstanding may, at
any time, and from time to time, be refunded by the city by the issuance of its
refunding bonds in such amount as the city may deem necessary or appropriate.
Bonds may be issued as one issue for refunding and other authorized purposes.
Any refunding may be effected whether the bonds to be refunded shall have then
matured or shall thereafter mature, either by sale of the refunding bonds and
the application of the bond proceeds to the purchase or redemption of the bonds
to be refunded thereby, or by the exchange of the refunding bonds for the bonds
to be refunded thereby with the consent of the holders of the bonds so to be
refunded and with such cash adjustments as may be agreed, and regardless of
whether or not the bonds proposed to be refunded shall be payable at the same
date or different dates or shall be due serially or otherwise, and,
notwithstanding any other provision of the law, the proceedings for the
issuance of such refunding bonds may provide for the payment into an escrow
fund of such monies, together with the interest to be earned thereon, which
will be sufficient to pay the principal of, and interest and premium, if any,
on the bonds so refunded to the earliest or subsequent date of redemption,
purchase or maturity of such refunded bonds.
   D.   Each bond shall be deemed to be an investment security under the
Uniform Commercial Code as adopted by the state and a negotiable instrument,
subject only to any provisions thereof for registration or other provisions
restricting transfer, and shall be deemed to have been issued for an authorized
purpose of the city in the exercise of the powers pursuant to this division,
provided that the city so determines in the proceedings and such determination
is recited in the bond. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.17: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS:
Any and all bonds issued pursuant to this division shall be issued in
compliance with all state laws as well as federal laws and regulations relating
to the issuance of securities and federal laws and regulations relating to the
exemption from federal income taxation. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.18: SALE OF BONDS:
Bonds may be sold at such prices and in such manner as the council may direct,
at public or private sale. Such bonds may be sold at, above, or below the par
or face value thereof, but the sale price shall not be less than the percentage
of the par or face value of the bonds specified in the proceedings. (Ord. 1232
§ 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.19: NO CITY DEBT:
   A.   None of the bonds issued by the city pursuant to this division shall be
deemed to constitute a debt or liability of the city, or a pledge of the faith
and credit of the city, but shall be payable solely from the revenues and other
funds, if any, provided therefor in the proceedings.
   B.   The issuance of bonds shall not directly or indirectly or contingently
obligate the city to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatsoever therefor
or to make any appropriation for their payment.
   C.   All bonds shall contain on the face thereof a statement to the
following effect:
Neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the City of Porterville is
pledged to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on
this bond, nor is the City of Porterville in any manner obligated to make any
appropriation for payment.
   D.   Neither the council nor any persons executing the bonds shall, in any
event, be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the
issuance of such bonds.
   E.   The bonds shall be a special obligation of the city, and the city
shall, under no circumstances, be obligated, to pay bonds or project costs
(other than administrative expenses), except from revenues and other funds
received under the project agreements for such purposes, nor to pay
administrative expenses except from funds received under project agreements for
such purposes, or from funds which are made available as otherwise authorized
by law. All bonds shall contain on the face thereof a statement of their
special obligation nature. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.20: NET EARNINGS:
Any net earnings realized by the city pursuant to this division shall inure
solely to the benefit of the city and not to the benefit of any company or
other private person. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.21: MISCELLANEOUS:
   A.   This division, being necessary for the welfare of the city and its
inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect its purposes.
   B.   The city pledges and agrees with the holders of any bonds issued, and
with those companies which may enter into project agreements pursuant to the
provisions of this division relating to such bonds, that the city will not
amend this division so as to adversely affect vested rights of the holders of
such bonds or the companies executing project agreements relating thereto until
the obligations evidenced by such bonds are fully met or discharged and such
project agreements are fully performed or discharged on the part of the city;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall preclude such alteration
or change:
      1.   If there will be no impairment of the contracts represented by such
bonds, based upon a finding made by the council after a public hearing and the
receipt of appropriate opinions and evidence relating thereto;
      2.   If, and when, adequate provision shall have been made for the
protection from impairment of the contracts represented by such bonds and
project agreements; or
      3.   To amend this division so as to make it more efficient, cure
ambiguities, defects, inconsistent provisions, clarify matters or questions
arising under this division, take advantage of new legal or conceptual
developments or otherwise improve this division and the application thereof to
the benefit of the city and its citizens; and such right to so alter or change
is hereby reserved.
   C.   An action may be brought pursuant to chapter 9 (commencing with section
860) of part 2 of title 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to determine the
validity of bonds, proceedings, project agreements or indentures, including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the legality of all
proceedings theretofore taken, or proposed to be taken in such proceedings,
pursuant to this division; and all of such matters respecting which an action
may be brought pursuant to such chapter 9 shall be subject to the provisions
thereof regarding validity, limitation of actions, and incontestability.
   D.   This division provides a complete and alternative method for the doing
of the things authorized hereby, but the authorizations shall be regarded as
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws; provided,
however, that, in the exercise of any of the powers conferred, including powers
relating to the offer, issuance and sale of bonds, under the provisions of this
division, the city need not comply with the provisions of any law applicable to
the exercise of similar powers except as referred to in this division.
   E.   Except to the extent that a particular word or phrase is otherwise
specifically defined in this division, the definition of each word or phrase
shall constitute, to the extent applicable, the definition of each word or
phrase which is derivative from it, or from which it is a derivative, as the
case may be. Words of the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter
genders. Words importing the singular number include the plural number and vice
versa. Words importing persons shall include corporations and associations,
including public bodies, as well as natural persons. The terms "hereby",
"hereof", "hereto", "herein", "hereunder", and any similar terms used in this
division, refer to this division. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-1981)
2-34.22: STATEMENT OF POLICY, SEVERABILITY:
The council hereby declares that the ordinance enacting this division is an
exercise of the power granted to the city by the constitution of the state of
California and is an exercise by the city of its powers as to municipal
affairs, and this division shall be liberally construed to be valid under the
constitution of the state of California and the constitution of the United
States of America. If any section, paragraph, subdivision, sentence, clause or
phrase of this division shall for any reason be adjudged by any court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, unenforceable or invalid, such
judgment shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
division. The council hereby declares it would have adopted this division and
each and every other section, paragraph, subdivision, sentence, clause or
phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
paragraphs, subdivisions, sentences, clauses or phrases of this division may be
held to be unconstitutional, unenforceable or invalid. (Ord. 1232 § 1, 4-21-
1981)
ARTICLE VII. EXPENDITURES, INDEBTEDNESS, AND REVOLVING CASH FUND
SECTION:
2-35: Expenditures
2-36: Indebtedness
2-37: Revolving Cash Fund
2-38: Emergency Expenditures/Appropriations
2-35: EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditure or purchase of less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
shall not require specific council authorization. Any expenditure or purchase
of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more shall first require specific
council authorization as provided by section 48 of the charter of this code.
(Ord. 1642 § 1, 11-18-2003; Ord. 1744, 7-15-2008)
2-36: INDEBTEDNESS:
Any indebtedness to be incurred by the city of less than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) shall not require specific council authorization. Any indebtedness
to be incurred by the city of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more shall
first require specific council authorization as provided by section 48 of the
charter of this code. (Ord. 1642 § 1, 11-18-2003; Ord. 1744, 7-15-2008)
2-37: REVOLVING CASH FUND:
A revolving cash fund in the amount of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) is hereby established pursuant to section 48 of the charter of this
code. (Ord. 1642 § 1, 11-18-2003; Ord. 1744, 7-15-2008)
2-38: EMERGENCY EXPENDITURES/APPROPRIATIONS:
An appropriation and/or expenditure of up to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) is authorized without additional prior council approval, if: a)
the city manager has requested that such an appropriation/expenditure be made;
b) the mayor has determined that the circumstances for the request constitute
an extraordinary emergency, meaning that there is an immediate need to make
such appropriation/expenditure for the preservation of the public peace, health
or safety; and c) the city manager notifies the council of the specific
appropriation/expenditure in writing. (Ord. 1704 § 1, 10-3-2006)
ARTICLE VIII. PROCEDURE OF COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT OF 1970
SECTION:
2-50: Procedure Established
2-50: PROCEDURE ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The term "project" as used in this section shall be defined to include,
but shall not be limited to, the following: public works projects, private
construction, all construction permits (including building, electrical and
plumbing permits), use permits, leases of city property, variances, general
plan amendments, changes of zone, parcel maps and subdivisions.
   B.   The council, or parcel map committee, by resolution shall make a
finding as to what projects intended to be carried out in the city of
Porterville do not have a significant impact on the environment.
   C.   All other projects not previously found by the council or parcel map
committee, as not having a significant effect on the environment, shall be
subject to the following:
      1.   Said projects shall be tentatively approved by community development
director or designee, building inspector, or public works director or designee,
if the city official granting tentative approval finds that the project is in
accord with the general plan.
      2.   Upon the granting of tentative approval of a project any permit,
license, or other entitlement may be issued subject to the condition that the
same may be revoked, rescinded, canceled or set aside by the city council, and
the applicant for any permit, license, or other entitlement shall acknowledge
in writing that the same is issued or granted conditionally and any exercise of
any right or privilege under the provisions of any permit, license, or other
entitlement shall be solely at the risk of applicant.
      3.   The council shall by resolution establish standards and guidelines
to enable the community development director or designee, building inspector,
or public works director or designee to make a tentative finding that a project
is in accord with the general plan.
      4.   Any project receiving tentative approval under the provisions of
subsection B of this section and any project denied tentative approval shall be
referred to the city council and the council shall make a finding that said
project is or is not in accord with the general plan, and if not, whether said
project may have a significant effect on the environment.
      5.   Any project that is found by the council not to be in accord with
the general plan and does have a significant effect on the environment and for
which tentative approval has also been granted and for which a conditional
permit, license, or other entitlement has been issued then the same shall be
canceled, and the applicant shall be informed of said cancellation in writing.
(Ord. 1537 § B12, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 §§ 2, 3, 4, 9-17-2002)
ARTICLE IX. INTERNAL CITY AUDITS
SECTION:
2-73: Purpose
2-74: Audit Committee
2-73: PURPOSE:
The city council shall conduct internal audits for the purpose of managing the
city's independent auditor, and reviewing the annual audit and the
comprehensive annual financial report (CAFR) prior to the submission of these
documents to the city council. (Ord. 1703 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-74: AUDIT COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established; Membership: An audit committee is hereby
established consisting of one member of the city council and one member of the
public (both to be appointed by the city council), the city manager, the city
attorney, and the chief financial officer.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The internal city audit committee shall manage the work of the
independent auditor, reviewing both the annual audit and the comprehensive
annual financial report (CAFR) prior to submission to the city council. The
audit committee shall also manage special studies when assigned by the city
council.
      2.   When called upon to do so by the mayor or any other member of the
audit committee, the audit committee shall meet to review any other financial
matter of the city.
      3.   The audit committee may, upon its own motion, establish and adopt
bylaws or rules of order to govern the proceedings of the committee. (Ord. 1703
§ 1, 10-3-2006)
ARTICLE X. PERSONNEL SYSTEM
SECTION:
2-83: Adoption
2-84: Definitions
2-85: Administration
2-86: Competitive Service
2-87: Adoption And Amendment Of Rules
2-88: Appointments
2-89: Probationary Period
2-90: Status Of Present Employees
2-91: Demotion, Dismissal, Reduction In Pay, Suspension, Reprimand
2-92: Right Of Appeal
2-93: Layoff And Reemployment
2-94: Political Activity
2-83: ADOPTION:
In order to establish an equitable and uniform system for dealing with
personnel matters, and to comply with applicable laws relating to the
administration of the personnel process, the personnel system set out in this
article is hereby adopted. (Ord. 1283 § 1, 6-21-1983)
2-84: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used to administer the personnel system shall be defined in the
personnel rules. (Ord. 1283 § 2, 6-21-1983)
2-85: ADMINISTRATION:
The city manager shall administer the city personnel system and may delegate
any of the powers and duties to a personnel director or may delegate the
appointing authority granted by the city council to any other officer or
employee of the city, or may recommend that such powers and duties be performed
under contract. The city manager shall:
   A.   Act as the appointing authority for the city.
   B.   Administer all provisions of this article and of the personnel rules
not specifically reserved to the city council.
   C.   Prepare and recommend to the city council personnel rules and revisions
and amendments to such rules.
   D.   Prepare or cause to be prepared a position classification plan,
including class specifications, and revisions of the plan.
   E.   Have the authority to discipline employees in accordance with this
article and the personnel rules of the city.
   F.   Provide for the publishing or posting of notices of tests for positions
in the competitive service; the receiving of applications therefor; the
conducting and grading of tests; the certification of a list of all persons
eligible for appointment to the appropriate position in the competitive
service; and performing any other duty that may be required to administer the
personnel system. (Ord. 1283 § 3, 6-21-1983)
2-86: COMPETITIVE SERVICE:
The provisions of this article shall apply to all offices, positions and
employments in the service of the city, except:
   A.   Elective officers.
   B.   The city manager.
   C.   The city attorney.
   D.   Members of appointive boards, commissions and committees.
   E.   All department heads, and management employees as indicated in the city
pay and employee benefit plan.
   F.   Persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional,
technical or any other services.
   G.   Volunteer personnel, such as volunteer firemen.
   H.   Emergency employees who are hired to meet the immediate requirements of
an emergency condition, such as extraordinary fire, flood or earthquake which
threatens life or property.
   I.   Employees, other than those listed elsewhere in this section, who are
not regularly employed in permanent positions. "Regularly employed in permanent
positions" means an employee hired for an indefinite term into a budgeted
position, who is regularly scheduled to work no less than nine hundred sixty
(960) hours per year, and has successfully completed the probationary period
and has been retained as provided in this article and the personnel rules.
   J.   Any position primarily funded under a state or federal employment
program.
   K.   Employees not included in the competitive service under this section,
who shall serve at the pleasure of their appointing authority. (Ord. 1283 § 4,
6-21-1983)
2-87: ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT OF RULES:
Personnel rules shall be adopted by resolution of the city council. The rules
may establish regulations governing the personnel system, including:
   A.   Preparation, installation, revision and maintenance of a position
classification plan covering all positions in the competitive service,
including employment standards and qualifications for each class.
   B.   Appropriate announcement of the selection process and acceptance of
applications for employment.
   C.   Preparation and conduct of tests and the establishment and use of
resulting employment lists containing names of persons eligible for
appointment.
   D.   Certification and appointment of persons from employment lists, and the
making of provisional appointment.
   E.   Establishment of probationary testing periods.
   F.   Evaluation of employees during the probationary testing period and
thereafter.
   G.   Transfer, promotion, demotion, reinstatement, disciplinary action and
layoff of employees in the competitive service.
   H.   Separation of employees from the city service.
   I.   The establishment and maintenance of adequate personnel records for
purposes of accounting and legal requirements.
   J.   The establishment of any necessary appeal procedures. (Ord. 1283 § 5,
6-21-1983)
2-88: APPOINTMENTS:
Appointments to vacant positions in the competitive service shall be made in
accordance with the personnel rules. Appointments and promotions shall be based
on merit and fitness to be ascertained so far as practicable by competitive
examination. Examinations may be used and conducted to aid in the selection of
qualified employees and shall consist of selection techniques which will test
fairly the qualifications of candidates such as achievement and aptitude tests,
written tests, personal interview, performance tests, physical agility tests,
evaluation of daily work performance, work samples or any combinations of these
or other tests. The probationary period shall be considered an extension of the
examination process. Physical, medical and psychological tests may be given as
a part of any examination.
In any examination the city manager or his/her designee may include, in
addition to competitive tests, a qualifying test or tests, and set minimum
standards therefor.
The appointing authority of employees in the competitive service is the city
manager. The city manager may delegate the appointing authority to any other
officer or employee of the city. (Ord. 1283 § 6, 6-21-1983)
2-89: PROBATIONARY PERIOD:
All regular appointments, including promotional appointments, shall be for a
probationary period of not less than six (6) months or longer as determined by
the personnel rules. During the probationary period, the employee may be
rejected at any time without the right of appeal or hearing. (Ord. 1283 § 7, 6-
21-1983)
2-90: STATUS OF PRESENT EMPLOYEES:
Any person holding a position included in the competitive service who, on the
effective date of this article (July 21, 1983), shall have served continuously
in such position, or in some other position in the competitive service, for a
period equal to the probationary period prescribed in the rules for his class,
shall assume regular status in the competitive service in the position held on
such effective date without qualifying test and shall thereafter be subject in
all respects to the provisions of this article and the personnel rules.
Any other persons holding positions in the competitive service shall be
regarded as probationers who are serving out the balance of their probationary
periods as prescribed in the rules before obtaining regular status. The
probationary period shall be computed from the date of appointment or
employment. (Ord. 1283 § 8, 6-21-1983)
2-91: DEMOTION, DISMISSAL, REDUCTION IN PAY, SUSPENSION, REPRIMAND:
The city manager or any appointing authority shall have the authority to
demote, discharge, reprimand, reduce in pay or suspend any regular employee for
cause in accordance with procedures included in the personnel rules. (Ord. 1283
§ 9, 6-21-1983)
2-92: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
Any employee in the competitive service shall have the right to appeal a
demotion, reduction in pay, suspension or discharge for disciplinary or medical
reasons, except in those instances where the right of appeal is specifically
prohibited by this article or the rules adopted thereunder.
All appeals shall be processed in accordance with the requirements and
procedures as set forth in the personnel rules adopted pursuant to this
article. (Ord. 1283 § 10, 6-21-1983)
2-93: LAYOFF AND REEMPLOYMENT:
Layoff and reemployment actions shall follow the process outlined in the
personnel rules. (Ord. 1283 § 11, 6-21-1983)
2-94: POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
The political activities of city employees shall conform to pertinent
provisions of state law and any local provision adopted pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 1283 § 12, 6-21-1983)
ARTICLE XI. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-105: Legislative Findings
2-106: Function
2-107: Board Of Directors
2-108: Name Of Authority
2-105: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
In accordance with the California industrial development financing act (title
10, commencing with section 91500 of the Government Code of the state of
California) (the "act"), this city council hereby finds and declares that there
is a need for an industrial development authority to function in the city of
Porterville. (Ord. 1300 § 1, 2-21-1984)
2-106: FUNCTION:
This city council hereby further declares that an industrial development
authority shall function in the city of Porterville, in accomplishment of the
purposes provided in the act, and to carry out and complete projects and
perform and exercise derivative obligations and powers as set forth in the act.
(Ord. 1300 § 2, 2-21-1984)
2-107: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
This city council hereby further declares itself to be the board of directors
of such industrial development authority; and all the rights, powers,
privileges, duties, liabilities, disabilities and immunities vested in such a
board under the act shall be vested in this city council as such board. (Ord.
1300 § 3, 2-21-1984)
2-108: NAME OF AUTHORITY:
This authority established in the city of Porterville by the act and authorized
to transact business and exercise its powers thereunder by this article shall
be known as the "industrial development authority of the city of Porterville".
(Ord. 1300 § 4, 2-21-1984)
ARTICLE XII. FEES AND CHARGES/COST CONTROL SYSTEM 1
SECTION:
2-110: Intent
2-111: Definition Of Costs
2-112: Fees And Service Charges
2-113: Statutory Public Hearing
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 2-27 through 2-30 of this chapter.
2-110: INTENT:
It is the intent of the city council that the cost of all city services shall
be ascertained and reported to the city council annually and that fees and
charges for such services shall be adopted by the council annually, or at such
other times as otherwise set forth herein, following a public hearing. (Ord.
1402 § 1, 6-7-1988)
2-111: DEFINITION OF COSTS:
"Costs" shall include the following:
   A.   All applicable direct costs including, but not limited to, salaries,
wages, overtime, employee fringe benefits, services and supplies, maintenance
and operation expenses, contracted services, special supplies, and any other
direct expenses.
   B.   All applicable indirect costs including, but not restricted to,
building maintenance and operations, equipment maintenance and operations,
communications expenses, computer costs, printing and reproduction, and like
expenses when distributed on an accounted and documented rational proration
system.
   C.   Fixed assets recovery expenses, consisting of depreciation of fixed
assets, and additional fixed asset expense recovery charges calculated on the
current estimated cost of replacement, divided by the approximate life
expectancy of the fixed asset. A further additional charge to make up the
difference between book value depreciation not previously recovered and
reserved in cash and the full cost of replacement, which also shall be
calculated and considered a cost so as to recover such unrecovered costs
between book value and cost of replacement over the remaining life of the
asset.
   D.   General overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and charging
the expenses of the city council, city manager, city clerk, city attorney,
finance department, purchasing, personnel, community promotion, and all other
staff and support service provided to the entire city organization as now
organized and as it may be reorganized at any time in the future, which costs
are not distributed by any other direct or indirect charging system.
Overhead shall be prorated between tax financed services and fee financed
services on the basis of such percentage so that each of taxes and fees and
charges shall proportionately defray such overhead costs.
   E.   Departmental overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and
charging the cost of each department head and his or her supporting expenses as
enumerated in subsections A, B and C of this section.
   F.   Debt service costs, consisting of repayment of principal, payment of
interest, and trustee fees and administrative expenses for all applicable bond,
certificate, or securities issues or loans. Any required coverage factors of
added reserves beyond basic debt service costs also shall be considered a cost
if required by covenant within any securities ordinance, resolution, indenture
or general law applicable to the city. (Ord. 1402 § 1, 6-7-1988)
2-112: FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Review Of Costs For Services: The city manager, administrative services
director, or his designee, and each city department head, under the direction
of the city manager, shall review the costs for services provided by the city
and shall provide for council consideration a resolution containing recommended
fees and service charges for each service provided by the city. Council shall
act pursuant to section
2-113 of this article.
   B.   Contents Of Fees Schedule: Such fee schedule shall not only specify
rates, but also what percentage of the rates will be used for maintenance and
operation and for capital reserve. (Ord. 1402 § 1, 6-7-1988)
2-113: STATUTORY PUBLIC HEARING:
Pursuant to California Government Code sections 66016, 66017 and 66018, the
city clerk shall cause notice to be provided as set out in such Government Code
sections 66016, 66018 and 6062a, and the city council periodically, and at
least annually, shall receive, at a public regularly scheduled meeting, oral
and written presentations concerning the fees and charges proposed to be
increased or added. Such notice, oral or written presentation, and public
meeting shall be provided by the city council prior to taking any action on any
new or increased fees or charges. At least one such public hearing shall be
held annually, in conjunction with the city's annual budget process and
hearing. (Ord. 1537 § B13, 8-6-1996)
ARTICLE XIII. CONTRACTOR DEBARMENT PROCESS
SECTION:
2-114: Standards Of Responsibility And Statement Of Purpose
2-115: Definitions
2-116: Scope Of Article
2-117: Investigation
2-118: Debarment Hearing Board To Be Established
2-119: Suspension Once City Manager Decides To Recommend Debarment
2-120: Request For Hearing; Notices
2-121: Grounds For Debarment
2-122: Debarment Proceedings Before Debarment Hearing Board Or City Council
2-123: Debarment Hearing Board's Authority To Debar; Board's Decision Final
2-124: Modification Of Decision
2-125: Appeals To City Council From Certain Decisions Of Debarment Hearing
Board
2-126: Submission Of Argument On Appeal
2-127: Standard Of Proof
2-128: Imputation Of Knowledge And Conduct
2-129: Judicial Review
2-130: Creation Of List Of Debarred And Suspended Persons
2-131: Effect Of Debarment Or Suspension
2-132: Effect Of Debarment Or Suspension On An Affiliate
2-133: Effect Of Debarment Or Suspension By Another Governmental Agency
2-134: Liability For Increased Costs
2-135: Effect Of Debarment Or Suspension On Existing Contracts
2-136: Agreement Not To Bid In Lieu Of One Year Debarment
2-137: Amendments And Compromises Allowed
2-138: Severability
2-114: STANDARDS OF RESPONSIBILITY AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   The covenant of good faith and fair dealing is contained in every city
contract, and city contractors and subcontractors shall at all times deal in
good faith with the city and shall submit invoices for payment, claims,
requests for equitable adjustments, requests for change orders, requests for
contract modifications, or requests of any kind seeking compensation on a city
contract, only upon good faith, honest evaluation of the matter which is the
subject thereof. The city requires in all of its procurement procedures that
all persons who submit bid proposals or offer to enter into a contract with the
city to do so truthfully and in good faith, and shall not attempt to mislead
the city with respect to the following, including, but not limited to, records
regarding the nature or quality of the work performed under the contract,
payroll records, classification of employees on payroll records, and payment of
prevailing wages where called for by the contract. All city contractors and
subcontractors shall adhere to all applicable laws and regulations, including,
but not limited to, city ordinances/policies regarding nondiscrimination, gifts
to city officials, and conflict of interest regulations. Additionally, all city
contractors and subcontractors shall comply with all city policies applicable
to the contract to which they are a party. Finally, all city contractors and
subcontractors shall adhere to the highest standards of performance and
workmanship in the performance of work on city contracts.
   B.   The city intends to accept bids or responses to requests for proposals
or qualifications from, award contracts to, execute contracts with, consent to
subcontracts, or do business in any way only with responsible persons.
Debarment and suspension are discretionary actions that, taken in accordance
with this article, are appropriate means to effectuate this policy. Debarment
and suspension are designed to protect the city by ensuring full and open
competition by having contractual relationships only with responsible persons.
   C.   The serious nature of debarment and suspension requires that these
sanctions be imposed only in the public interest for the city's protection, not
for purposes of punishment, and only for the grounds listed and in accordance
with procedures set forth in this article. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-115: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall mean:
   ADEQUATE EVIDENCE: Information sufficient to support the reasonable belief
that a particular act or omission has occurred.
   AFFILIATE: A person who:
   A.   Is the assignee, successor, subsidiary of, or parent company of,
another person; or
   B.   Is a controlling stockholder; or
   C.   Has the same or similar management of the debarred corporate or other
legal entity; or
   D.   Directly or indirectly controls, or has the power to control, another
person, or is directly or indirectly controlled by another person. Indicia of
control include, but are not limited to, interlocking management or ownership,
identity of interests among relatives, shared facilities and equipment, common
use of employees; or a business entity organized following the debarment,
suspension, or proposed debarment of a person which has the same or similar
management, ownership or principal employees as the contractor that was
debarred, suspended or proposed for debarment; or the debarred person or the
business entity created after the debarment, suspension or proposed debarment
operates in a manner designed to evade the application of this article or to
defeat the purpose of this article.
   AGENCY: The redevelopment agency of the city of Porterville.
   BIDDER: A person who has submitted a bid, proposal or other document seeking
award of a contract.
   CONTRACT: Any written agreement between the city and another person. It also
includes a public works contract. It also includes a city issued purchase
order.
   CONTROLLING STOCKHOLDER: A stockholder who:
   A.   Owns more than twenty five percent (25%) of the voting stock of a
corporation; or
   B.   Notwithstanding the number of shares that the stockholder owns, has the
power to direct or control the direction of the management or policies of a
corporation.
   DEBAR OR DEBARMENT: The disqualification of a person from:
   A.   Bidding on a contract; or
   B.   Submitting responses to city's requests for proposals or
qualifications; or
   C.   Being awarded a contract; or
   D.   Executing a contract; or
   E.   Participating in a contract as a subcontractor, material supplier, or
employee of a prime contractor or another subcontractor for a period of time
specified by the debarment hearing board following a hearing.
   F.   Directly or indirectly (e.g., through an affiliate) submitting offers
for, or executing contracts, or subcontracts with, the city; or
   G.   Conducting business with, or reasonably may be expected to conduct
business with, the city as an employee, agent, or representative of another
person.
   DEBARMENT HEARING BOARD: A board established by the city to hold hearings,
take evidence, and to make determinations about debarment for the city.
   DEPARTMENT: A city department organized under authority of the city manager.
   FINAL CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: A city issued
evaluation of a person's overall performance on a public works contract. This
evaluation is generally issued subsequent to completion of performance on the
public works contract. It does not include performance evaluations, final
performance evaluations, or partial construction contractor performance
evaluations.
   FINAL PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: A city issued final evaluation of a person's
overall performance on a contract which is generally issued subsequent to
completion of performance on the contract. It includes final construction
contractor performance evaluations. It does not include performance evaluations
or partial construction contractor performance evaluations.
   MANAGEMENT: The officers, partners, owners, foremen or other individuals
responsible for the financial and operational policies and practices of a
person.
   PARTIAL CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: A city issued
evaluation of a person's performance on a specific public works contract. It
includes only evaluations issued during performance of a public works contract.
It does not include final construction contractor performance evaluations.
   PERFORMANCE EVALUATION: A city issued evaluation of a person describing the
person's performance on a specific contract. It includes evaluations issued
during performance of a contract and partial construction contractor
performance evaluations. It does not include final performance evaluations or
final construction contractor performance evaluations.
   PERSON: Has the same meaning as that in section
1-4 of this code. In addition, if a person is a corporate or other legal
entity, it includes individuals who constitute the person's management. It also
includes any individual or other legal entity that:
   A.   Directly or indirectly (e.g., through an affiliate) submits offers for
or is awarded, or reasonably may be expected to submit offers for or be
awarded, a contract, or a subcontract under a contract; or
   B.   Conducts business, or reasonably may be expected to conduct business,
with the city as an agent or representative of another person.
   PREPONDERANCE OF THE EVIDENCE: Proof by information that, compared with that
opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably
true than not.
   PRIME CONTRACTOR: A person who enters a contract directly with the city.
   PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACT: A contract for the construction, reconstruction or
repair of public buildings, streets, utilities, and other public works.
   RELATIVE: A. An individual related by consanguinity within the second degree
as determined by the common law; or
   B.   A spouse; or
   C.   An individual related to a spouse within the second degree as
determined by the common law; or
   D.   An individual in an adoptive relationship within the second degree as
determined by the common law; or
   E.   Any individual considered to be "family" in commonly understood terms
of the word.
   SUBCONTRACTOR: A. A person who contracts directly with a prime contractor
but not directly with the city; or
   B.   Any person under contract with a prime contractor or another
subcontractor to provide any service, materials, labor or otherwise perform on
a contract. Subcontractor includes a trade contractor or specialty contractor.
   SUSPEND OR SUSPENSION: The debarment of a person for a temporary period of
time pending the completion of an investigation and any proceedings before a
debarment hearing board and any appeals therefrom.
   WILFULLY FAILED TO COOPERATE: A. Intentionally failed to attend a hearing
and/or give testimony; or
   B.   Intentionally failed to provide documents, books, papers, or other
information upon request of the city manager, the debarment hearing board, or
the city council. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-116: SCOPE OF ARTICLE:
   A.   This article establishes procedures for determining whether a person is
to be debarred or suspended.
   B.   This article sets forth the grounds for debarment and suspension.
   C.   This article provides that a list of debarred and suspended persons is
to be created and maintained by the city manager. It further spells out the
consequences of a person's debarment and suspension. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-117: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Initiation Of Proceedings: The city manager may initiate debarment
proceedings. If debarment proceedings are initiated, the city manager shall
cause an investigation to be conducted.
   B.   Written Findings: If, upon investigation, it is determined that an act
or omission which can give rise to debarment may have occurred, written
findings shall be made containing the grounds for debarment as well as a
recommendation. If it is determined that no act or omission which can give rise
to debarment occurred or can be proven, written findings shall be made to that
effect. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-118: DEBARMENT HEARING BOARD TO BE ESTABLISHED:
Upon receipt of a recommendation for debarment from a city department and
request for a hearing by the person consistent with the provisions of this
article, the city manager shall appoint a fair and impartial board called a
debarment hearing board to hear and determine whether a person should be
debarred. The city manager shall appoint three (3) individuals to serve on each
debarment hearing board. These individuals shall be unbiased and may be city
employees, but shall not be employees who have participated in the decision to
recommend the debarment nor are subject to the authority, direction or
discretion of employees or have participated in the decision to recommend
debarment. The debarment hearing board shall follow procedures set forth in
this article and shall make decisions based on evidence taken at a hearing. The
debarment hearing board's scope of authority and duties are set forth in this
article. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-119: SUSPENSION ONCE CITY MANAGER DECIDES TO RECOMMEND DEBARMENT:
   A.   Authority To Suspend: Once a determination has been made by the city
manager that adequate evidence exists supporting debarment, the city manager
may suspend the person pending any written request for further proceedings and
a debarment decision where the city manager finds that doing so is in the
public interest.
   B.   Notice Of Suspension: The city manager shall notify the person of the
suspension in accordance with section
2-120 of this article, pending any proceedings and decision by the debarment
hearing board or city council's ruling on the matter.
   C.   Term Of Suspension: Once the city manager has suspended a person, the
suspension shall continue until the time, set forth in section
2-120 of this article, for requesting a hearing before the debarment hearing
board has run and the proposed debarment goes into effect, the debarment
hearing board makes a final decision on the proposed debarment, or until there
has been a final ruling by the city council following an appeal of a permanent
debarment decision, if any appeal is filed. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-120: REQUEST FOR HEARING; NOTICES:
   A.   Contents Of Notice; Request For Hearing: The city manager shall provide
written notice as specified in subsection B of this section to the person. If
debarment is recommended, the notice of proposed debarment shall contain the
following: 1) notice that debarment is being considered; 2) the basis for the
proposed debarment; 3) the potential consequences of the debarment; and 4) the
city's procedures governing debarment. Within fifteen (15) days after receipt
of the notice of proposed debarment, the person may submit a written request to
be heard, in person or through a representative. Failure of the person to
submit to the city a written request to be heard within the time provided by
this section, or failure of the person to appear for a requested hearing, shall
be deemed consent by the person to the proposed debarment, and the person shall
automatically be deemed debarred.
   B.   Method Of Delivering Notice: Whenever a notice is required to be
delivered under this article, the notice shall be delivered by any of the
following methods. Service is effective as described herein unless different
provisions are specifically stated to apply:
      1.   Personal delivery; service shall be deemed effective on the date of
delivery; or
      2.   Certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
Simultaneously, the same notice may be sent by regular mail. If a notice that
is sent by certified mail is returned unsigned, then delivery shall be deemed
effective pursuant to regular mail, provided the notice that was sent by
regular mail is not returned. Service shall be deemed effective on the date of
mailing; or
      3.   Publication; service shall be deemed effective on the first date of
publication.
   C.   Proof Of Delivery: Proof of delivery of notice may be made by the
certificate of any officer or employee of the city or by declaration under
penalty of perjury of any person over the age of eighteen (18) years. The proof
of delivery shall show that delivery was done in conformity with this article
or other provisions of law applicable to the subject matter concerned.
   D.   Failure To Receive Notice; Effect: The failure of any person to receive
any notice served in accordance with this article shall not affect the validity
of any debarment proceedings. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-121: GROUNDS FOR DEBARMENT:
   A.   A final conviction, including a plea of nolo contendere, or final
unappealable civil judgment of any one or more of the grounds listed in
subsections A1 through A4 of this section constitutes grounds for permanent
debarment of the person who is subject to, or is the affiliate of the person
who is subject to, the criminal conviction, plea, or civil judgment:
      1.   Under any state or federal statute or municipal ordinance for
embezzlement, theft, fraudulent schemes and artifices, fraudulent schemes and
practices, bid rigging, perjury, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction
of records, receiving stolen property or any offense indicating a lack of
business integrity or business honesty which affects the person's or its
affiliate's responsibility; or
      2.   For commission of a criminal offense arising out of obtaining or
attempting to obtain a public or private contract or subcontract, or in the
performance of such contract or subcontract; or
      3.   For violations of California Government Code sections 84300(c) and
84301 (sections of the California political reform act requiring disclosure of
true campaign donor), as they exist on May 15, 1996, or as amended thereafter,
which violations occurred on or after May 15, 1996, and which violations occur
with respect to a city election; or
      4.   For a conviction under federal or state antitrust statutes involving
public contracts or the submission of offers or bid proposals.
   B.   A fair political practices commission enforcement order against a
person, either following a hearing or by stipulation, that makes a finding of a
violation of California Government Code sections 84300(c) and 84301, as those
sections exist on May 15, 1996, or as amended thereafter, which violation
occurred on or after May 15, 1996, and which violation occurred with respect to
a city election, constitutes grounds for permanent debarment of the person who
is subject to, or is the affiliate of the person who is subject to, the
enforcement order.
   C.   Any one of the following acts or omissions by a person also constitute
grounds for permanent debarment:
      1.   The person committed any offense, took any action, or failed to take
an action, which indicates a lack of business integrity and which could
directly affect the reliability and credibility of performance of the person on
future contracts with the city; or
      2.   The person committed collusion with any party or parties in the
submission of any bid or for the purpose of preventing any other bid being
made; or
      3.   The person has committed any corrupt practice in bidding for or in
any way seeking award of a contract, or has committed any corrupt practice in
any way relating to a city contract; or
      4.   The person was established to, or operates in a manner designed to,
evade the application of this article or to defeat the purpose of this article.
   D.   Any two (2) or more of the following acts or omissions by a person
constitute grounds for debarment of that person for no less than three (3)
years and up to and including permanently:
      1.   The person unjustifiably refused to properly perform or complete
contract work or warranty performance; or
      2.   The person unjustifiably failed to honor or observe contractual
obligations or legal requirements pertaining to the contract; or
      3.   The person used substandard materials, or has failed to furnish or
install materials in accordance with contract requirements, even if the
discovery of the defect is subsequent to acceptance of the project and
expiration of the warranty thereof, if such defect amounts to intentionally
deficient or grossly negligent performance of the contract under which the
defect occurred; or
      4.   The person committed a violation of the drug free workplace act of
1988 (41 USC sections 701-707); or
      5.   The person wilfully failed to cooperate in the investigation or
hearing of the proposed debarment; or
      6.   The person performs, or fails to perform, a contract in such a way
that environmental damage results or a violation of environmental laws or
permits is committed; or
      7.   The person practices unlawful discrimination in employment, and the
person has not taken corrective action after sufficient notice by the city; or
      8.   The person has committed an act or omission of so serious or
compelling a nature that:
         a.   It affects the present responsibility of the person to be awarded
a contract or to participate as a subcontractor in a contract; or
         b.   It affects the integrity of the procurement process.
      9.   Any one of the following acts or omissions by a person listed in
subsection E of this section.
   E.   The following acts or omissions by a person constitute grounds for
debarment of that person for no less than one year:
      1.   The city issued the person two (2) or more performance evaluations
from the city with a rating of unsatisfactory within a two (2) year period.
      2.   The city has issued the person a final performance evaluation with a
rating of unsatisfactory.
      3.   The person has failed to timely submit bond, contract documents,
insurance documents or any other item required by the city, acceptable to the
city which conform to bid, request for proposal and/or contract requirements.
      4.   The person submitted two (2) or more claims of computational or
other error in a bid to the city within a two (2) year period. (Ord. 1705 § 1,
10-3-2006)
2-122: DEBARMENT PROCEEDINGS BEFORE DEBARMENT HEARING BOARD OR CITY COUNCIL:
The proceedings shall be as informal as is compatible with the requirements of
justice. The debarment hearing board and/or city council need not be bound by
the common law or statutory rules of evidence and procedure, but may make
inquiries in the matter through all means and in a manner best calculated to
make a just, factual determination. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-123: DEBARMENT HEARING BOARD'S AUTHORITY TO DEBAR; BOARD'S DECISION FINAL:
   A.   Authority Of Board: After notice and hearing held in accordance with
the procedures set forth in this article and as may be further developed in
accordance with any additional policies adopted by the city council, the
debarment hearing board shall determine whether a person is to be debarred and
for what length of time. To debar a person, the debarment hearing board must
find by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more grounds for debarment
stated in section
2-121 of this article exist.
   B.   Board's Decision Final; Exception: Except as provided in subsection C
of this section, a debarment hearing board's decision shall be final.
   C.   Appeal To Council: A decision by a debarment hearing board to
permanently debar a person may be appealed to the city council in accordance
with section
2-125 of this article. The filing of a request for appeal of the debarment
decision shall not stay the debarment hearing board's decision pending a final
decision of the city council.
   D.   Notice Of Board's Decision: The debarment hearing board shall deliver
notice of the decision to the person subject to the debarment hearing and to
the city manager. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-124: MODIFICATION OF DECISION:
   A.   Reasons For Modification: The debarment hearing board may, but is not
required to, modify a debarment decision for any reason which obviates the need
for the debarment or which indicates that a shorter debarment period will
adequately protect the public interest. Such reasons include, but are not
limited to, the following: 1) newly discovered evidence; 2) reversal of the
conviction or civil judgment upon which the debarment was based; 3) bona fide
change in ownership or management; or 4) elimination or other grounds for which
the debarment was imposed.
   B.   Initiation Of Modification Of Decision: Such modification of the
debarment decision may be initiated by the debarred person upon request by the
debarred person submitted to the debarment hearing board. Such request by the
debarred person shall be in writing and accompanied by supporting
documentation.
   C.   Action By Board Within Reasonable Time: The debarment hearing board
shall act upon any such written request submitted by a debarred person within a
reasonable time after receipt of the request and shall promptly notify the
debarred person of the decision made on such request.
   D.   Appeal To Council: The debarred person may appeal the debarment hearing
board's decision to the city council, following the procedures specified in
section
2-125 of this article. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-125: APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL FROM CERTAIN DECISIONS OF DEBARMENT HEARING
BOARD:
   A.   Right To Appeal: If a debarment hearing board has made a determination
to debar a person permanently, that person may appeal that decision to the city
council in accordance with procedures set forth in this article and procedures
adopted by the city council.
   B.   Time Limit For Requesting Appeal: A person who has been debarred may
request an appeal to the city council no later than five (5) working days from
the date of the notice of the debarment hearing board's debarment decision. The
debarred person's request for appeal shall set forth in detail the reasons why
the person disagrees with the decision. The person shall file the notice of
appeal with the city clerk, who shall calendar the appeal hearing in front of
the city council after consultation with the city manager and mayor.
   C.   Appeal Request Does Not Stay Decision: The filing of a request for an
appeal shall not stay the debarment decision. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-126: SUBMISSION OF ARGUMENT ON APPEAL:
   A.   New Evidence Prohibited; Argument Supporting Appeal Allowed: At the
city council hearing on the appeal, no new evidence may be presented by the
city or any person. However, if the person who filed the appeal under section
2-125 of this article wishes to submit argument supporting the appeal, that
person shall submit argument in writing with the city clerk no later than five
o'clock (5:00) P.M., ten (10) calendar days prior to the date on which the
hearing is scheduled to be held. Filing shall also be made on all persons
subject to the debarment and on the debarment hearing board.
   B.   Filing By City Of Rebuttal Arguments: Where argument is submitted in
accordance with subsection A of this section, the city may submit rebuttal
arguments, which shall be filed with the city clerk no later than five o'clock
(5:00) P.M., five (5) calendar days prior to the date on which the hearing is
scheduled to be heard. Filing shall also be made on all persons subject to the
debarment. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-127: STANDARD OF PROOF:
The standard of proof for the debarment hearing shall be a preponderance of the
evidence. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-128: IMPUTATION OF KNOWLEDGE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   The fraudulent, criminal, or other seriously improper conduct of any
officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individuals
associated with a person may be imputed to the person when the conduct occurred
in connection with the individual's performance of duties for, or on behalf of,
the person, or with the person's knowledge, approval, or acquiescence. The
person's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence
of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence.
   B.   The fraudulent, criminal, or other seriously improper conduct of a
person may be imputed to any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee,
or other individual associated with the person who participated in, knew of, or
had reason to know of the person's conduct.
   C.   The fraudulent, criminal, or other seriously improper conduct of one
person participating in a joint venture or similar arrangement may be imputed
to other participating persons if the conduct occurred for, on approval of, or
acquiescence of these persons. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the
conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence. (Ord.
1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-129: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Once a debarment hearing board or the city council has issued a final decision
as provided in this article, the time in which judicial review of the order
must be sought shall be governed by California Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.6. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-130: CREATION OF LIST OF DEBARRED AND SUSPENDED PERSONS:
   A.   Creation And Maintenance Of List: The city manager shall create and
maintain a list of persons who have been debarred or suspended in accordance
with policies and procedures of this article.
      1.   This list shall include the names and addresses of all persons who
have been debarred or suspended.
      2.   For each debarred or suspended person, the list shall state the date
of commencement and expiration of the debarment or suspension.
   B.   Use Of List: The city manager shall establish procedures to provide for
the effective use of the list to ensure that the city does not do business with
persons who have been debarred or suspended. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-131: EFFECT OF DEBARMENT OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Persons who have been debarred or suspended are excluded from
conducting business with the city on behalf of themselves or as agents or
representatives of other persons for the duration of the debarment or
suspension.
   B.   Persons who have been debarred or suspended are excluded from
submitting bids, directly or indirectly (e.g., through an affiliate),
submitting responses to requests for proposal or qualifications, receiving
contract awards, executing contracts, participating as a subcontractor,
employee, agent or representative of another person contracting with the city,
or receiving contracts for the period of debarment or suspension.
   C.   Persons who have been debarred or suspended are excluded from acting in
a capacity where the person reasonably may be expected to submit offers for or
be awarded, a contract, or a subcontract under a contract.
   D.   Persons who have been debarred or suspended are excluded from
conducting business, or from acting in a capacity where the person reasonably
may be expected to conduct business, with the city as an agent or
representative of another person.
   E.   The management of a corporate or other legal entity that has been
debarred or suspended shall not conduct business or act in a capacity where
they reasonably may be expected to conduct business with the city under a
different corporate name.
   F.   The city shall not accept, receive, open a bid, evaluate for award, or
include any proposals, quotations, bids, or offers from any debarred or
suspended person for the duration of the debarment or suspension.
   G.   The city shall not award or approve the award of a contract or execute
a contract under which a debarred or suspended person is intended to
participate as a subcontractor or material supplier.
   H.   A prime contractor who is awarded a contract shall not employ,
subcontract with, nor purchase materials or services from a debarred or
suspended person.
   I.   When a debarred person sells or otherwise transfers to a relative or to
any other person over whose actions the debarred person exercises substantial
influence or control, then that relative or other person is automatically
suspended or debarred or proposed for debarment to the same extent as the
seller or transferor is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment. (Ord.
1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-132: EFFECT OF DEBARMENT OR SUSPENSION ON AN AFFILIATE:
   A.   If the city determines that a person is an affiliate of a person that
is debarred, suspended or proposed for debarment, the affiliate is debarred or
suspended to the same extent as the person that is debarred, suspended or
proposed for debarment.
   B.   The affiliate debarred under subsection A of this section may request
an appeal of the decision to the debarment hearing board by submitting a
written request to the city clerk. An appeal under subsection A of this section
shall be governed by the same rules and regulations in accordance with this
article as are applicable to a debarment hearing board's procedure to debar a
person.
   C.   The filing of a request for review under subsection B of this section
shall not stay the decision to debar the affiliate. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-133: EFFECT OF DEBARMENT OR SUSPENSION BY ANOTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY:
If a person has been debarred by another governmental agency, that person may
be automatically debarred by the city manager permanently, or for three (3)
years, or until the other governmental agency's term of debarment expires, in
the sole discretion of the city manager. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-134: LIABILITY FOR INCREASED COSTS:
Any person who enters a contract with the city, either directly as a prime
contractor or indirectly as a subcontractor, during a period of suspension or
debarment imposed upon that person by the city under its rules and regulations,
shall be liable to the city for increased costs incurred as a result of
replacing the debarred or suspended person. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-135: EFFECT OF DEBARMENT OR SUSPENSION ON EXISTING CONTRACTS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section and notwithstanding the
debarment, suspension, or proposed debarment, of a person, the city may
continue contracts or subcontracts it has with that person that are in
existence at the time the person was debarred, suspended, or proposed for
debarment.
   B.   If the basis of a person's debarment or suspension is so serious that
the city manager believes that termination of contracts or subcontracts the
city has with that person that are in existence at the time the person is
debarred or suspended is in the best interests of the city, the city manager
may take actions necessary to terminate those contracts or subcontracts only
after consultation with the city attorney to ensure the propriety and legality
of the proposed action.
   C.   The city may continue to place orders against existing contracts,
including delivery contracts, held by a debarred or suspended person, unless
the contract has been terminated.
   D.   The city shall not renew or otherwise extend the duration of current
contracts, or consent to subcontracts, with debarred or suspended persons,
unless the city manager states in writing the compelling reasons for renewal or
extension. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-136: AGREEMENT NOT TO BID IN LIEU OF ONE YEAR DEBARMENT:
The city may, but is not required to, offer a person the opportunity to execute
a written agreement not to bid for one year, in lieu of the city's pursuing a
one year debarment under this article. By executing this agreement, the person
shall consent to waive a debarment hearing as described in section
2-118 of this article, and this agreement will not constitute a debarment.
(Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
2-137: AMENDMENTS AND COMPROMISES ALLOWED:
Nothing in this article is intended to prevent the city, in its sole
discretion, from amending, modifying or waiving the provisions of any city
contract, or from entering into compromise agreements with persons about the
future performance of contracts by a city contractor. (Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-
2006)
2-138: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
in this article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of the article or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause, or phrase in this article or any part thereof irrespective of
the fact that any one or more subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid, or ineffective.
(Ord. 1705 § 1, 10-3-2006)
ARTICLE XIV. ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
SECTION:
2-141: Legislative Findings And Statement Of Purpose
2-142: Definitions
2-143: Authority
2-144: Civil/Administrative Fines And Administrative Costs
2-145: Service Procedures
2-146: Contents Of Notice
2-147: Satisfaction Of Administrative Citation
2-148: Appeal Of Administrative Citation
2-149: Hearing Officer
2-150: Hearing Procedure
2-151: Hearing Officer's Decision
2-152: Recovery, Collection And Lien Procedures
2-153: Right To Judicial Review
2-154: Notices
2-155: Severability
2-141: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   Alternative Method Of Enforcement: The city council hereby finds that
there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for minor violations
of this code, or state codes specifically adopted by reference in the
applicable chapters of this code. The city council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement for minor violations is an administrative
citation program as authorized by Government Code section 53069.4.
   B.   Procedures Additional To Other Remedies: The procedures established in
this article shall be in addition to criminal, civil or any other legal remedy
established by law, which may be pursued to address violations of this code and
state codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of
this code.
   C.   City Goals: The city council hereby finds and determines that
enforcement of this code, other ordinances adopted by the city, conditions on
entitlements and terms and conditions of city agreements are matters of local
concern and serve important public purposes. Consistent with its powers as a
charter city, the city of Porterville adopts this administrative citation
program provision in order to achieve the following goals, and:
      1.   To protect the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the city;
      2.   To gain compliance with this code and state codes specifically
adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of this code in a timely and
efficient manner;
      3.   To provide a method to hold parties responsible when they fail or
refuse to comply with the provisions of this code and state codes specifically
adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of this code;
      4.   To minimize the expense and delay where the sole remedy is to pursue
responsible parties in the civil or criminal justice system;
      5.   To provide for an administrative process to appeal the imposition of
administrative citations and fines.
   D.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to enable the city, acting as a
charter city pursuant to article XI, sections 5 and 7 of the state
constitution, to impose and collect civil administrative fines in conjunction
with the enforcement of provisions of this code or state codes specifically
adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of this code. Notwithstanding
the provisions herein, the city has, and shall continue to employ, the
philosophy of voluntary compliance when seeking compliance with this code and
state codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of
this code.
   E.   Voluntary Compliance: Prior to the implementation of the enforcement
policies and penalties stated herein, voluntary compliance approaches, when
practical, should first be used in order to educate city property owners and
businesses concerning the requirements of this code, or state codes
specifically adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of this code, and
the corrective action necessary to correct a violation of this code and state
codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of this
code.
   F.   Use Of Provisions Discretionary: Use of this article shall be at the
sole discretion of the city. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
2-142: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall mean:
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any officer or employee with the authority to enforce
this code, and state codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable
chapters of this code.
   HEARING OFFICER: Any person appointed by the city manager to preside over
the administrative hearings provided for in this article.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any individual or entity who is the registered owner or
occupant of real property, owner or authorized agent of any business, company,
or entity, or the parent or the legal guardian of any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, who causes or maintains a violation of this code or state
codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of this
code. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
2-143: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Issuance of Citation: Any person violating any provision of this Code,
or state codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable chapters of
this Code, may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement officer
as provided in this Chapter. A violation of this Code includes, but is not
limited to: all violations of this code, and applicable state codes, ordinances
(whether codified or uncodified) or regulations adopted by the city council; or
the failure to comply with any condition imposed by any entitlement, permit,
agreement or environmental document issued or approved under the provisions of
this Code.
   B.   Each and every day a violation exists may constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   C.   Civil/Administrative Fine: A civil fine in an amount prescribed by
Section
2-144, as otherwise specifically set forth in this Code, or an otherwise
permitted by applicable state law, may be assessed by means of an
administrative citation issued by the enforcement officer and shall be payable
directly to the City. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007; Ord. 1883, 5-4-2021)
2-144: CIVIL/ADMINISTRATIVE FINES AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS:
   A.   Unless otherwise set forth in this code, or unless greater amounts are
authorized in accord with applicable state laws, fines shall be assessed in the
amounts specified as follows:
      1.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation;
      2.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation of the same ordinance within twelve (12) months, or five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for building and safety code violations or violations
determined by the City to affect the safety of the public.
      3.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
additional violation of the same ordinance within twelve (12) months, or one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for building and safety code violations or
violations determined by the City to affect the safety of the public.
   B.   Administrative Costs. An enforcement officer and the hearing officer
are authorized to assess any reasonable administrative or legal costs arising
out of or related to administrative citations issued pursuant to this Article.
Administrative or legal costs may include scheduling and processing of the
administrative hearing and all subsequent actions related to the administrative
hearing or judicial actions. Administrative costs may include assessments
recorded on the tax rolls collected by the Tulare County tax collector and the
costs of such recording. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007; Ord. 1883, 5-4-2021)
2-145: SERVICE PROCEDURES:
An administrative citation on a form approved by the city manager shall be
issued to the responsible person by an enforcement officer for violations of
this code, or state codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable
chapters of this code, in the following manner:
   A.   Personal Service: In any case where an administrative citation is
issued:
      1.   The enforcement officer shall attempt to locate and personally serve
the responsible person and obtain the signature of the responsible person on
the administrative citation.
      2.   If the responsible person served refuses or fails to sign the
administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the
validity of the administrative citation or of subsequent proceedings.
   B.   Service Of Citation By Mail: If the enforcement officer is unable to
locate the responsible person, the administrative citation shall be mailed to
the responsible person by certified mail, postage prepaid, with a requested
return receipt. Simultaneously, the citation may be sent by first class mail.
If the citation is sent by certified mail and returned unsigned, then service
shall be deemed effective pursuant to first class mail, provided the citation
sent by first class mail is not returned.
   C.   Service By Citation By Posting Notice: If the enforcement officer does
not succeed in serving the responsible person personally, or by certified mail
or regular mail, the enforcement officer shall post the administrative citation
on any real property within the city where the city has knowledge that the
responsible person has a legal interest, and such posting shall be deemed
effective service. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
2-146: CONTENTS OF NOTICE:
Each administrative citation shall contain the following information:
   A.   Date, approximate time, and address or definite description of the
location where the violation(s) was observed;
   B.   The code sections or conditions violated and a description of the
violation(s);
   C.   An order to the responsible person to correct the violations within the
time specified, and an explanation of the consequences of failure to correct
the violation(s);
   D.   The amount of the fine for the violation(s);
   E.   An explanation of how the fine shall be paid and the time period by
which it shall be paid;
   F.   Identification of rights of appeal, including the time within which the
citation may be contested and the place to obtain a request for hearing form to
contest the administrative citation; and
   G.   The name and signature of the enforcement officer.
   H.   If possible, the signature of the responsible person. (Ord. 1720 § 3,
5-1-2007)
2-147: SATISFACTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
Upon receipt of a citation, the responsible person shall:
   A.   Pay the fine to the city within fifteen (15) working days from the
issuance date of the administrative citation. All fines assessed shall be
payable to the city of Porterville. Payment of a fine shall not excuse or
discharge the failure to correct the violation(s) nor shall it bar further
enforcement action by the city; and
   B.   Remedy the violation(s). If the responsible person fails to correct the
violation(s), subsequent administrative citations may be issued for the same
violation(s). The amount of the fine for failure to correct the violation shall
increase at a rate specified in this article or by ordinance. (Ord. 1720 § 3,
5-1-2007)
2-148: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
It is the purpose and intent of the city council to afford due process of law
to any person who is directly affected by an administrative citation. Due
process of law includes adequate notice, an opportunity to participate in an
administrative hearing and an adequate explanation of the reasons justifying
the administrative citation. These procedures are also intended to establish a
forum to efficiently, expeditiously and fairly resolve issues raised in any
administrative citation.
   A.   Any recipient of an administrative citation may contest the citation by
completing a request for hearing form, including specifying the basis for the
appeal, and returning it to the city within fifteen (15) working days from the
date of service of the administrative citation, together with an advance
deposit (full amount) of the fine, and any administrative hearing fee if set by
Resolution of the City Council, or a request for an advance deposit hardship
waiver. A request for hearing form may be obtained from the city finance
department. Any administrative citation fine deposited in advance shall be
refunded if it is determined, after a hearing, that the person charged in the
administrative citation was not the responsible person for the violation(s) or
that there was no violation(s) that occurred.
   B.   Advance Deposit Hardship Waiver.
      1.   Any recipient of an administrative citation, and who is financially
unable to make the advance deposit of the fine and the administrative hearing
fee as required, may file a request for an advance deposit hardship waiver.
      2.   The request shall be filed with the city finance department or other
designated department on an advance deposit hardship waiver request form, which
is available from the city finance department, at the time of the filing for a
request for hearing.
      3.   The requirement of depositing the full amount of the fine and the
administrative hearing fee, as required, shall be stayed until the city finance
department makes a determination not to issue the advance deposit hardship
waiver.
      4.   The city finance (or other designated) department may waive the
requirement of an advance deposit and issue the advance deposit hardship waiver
only if the cited party submits to the city finance department a sworn
affidavit, together with any supporting documents or materials, demonstrating
to the satisfaction of the department the person’s financial inability to
deposit with the city the full amount of the fine and the administrative
hearing fee in advance of the hearing.
      5.   If the department determines not to issue an advance deposit
hardship waiver, the person shall remit the deposit to the city within 10 days
of the date or the first business day thereafter of service of that decision or
30 days from the date of the administrative citation, whichever is later,
unless the person shall appeal the decision to the city manager pursuant to
this chapter.
      6.   The department shall issue a written determination listing the
reasons for the determination to issue or not issue the advance deposit
hardship waiver, which shall be served upon the person who applied for the
advanced deposit hardship waiver.
      7.   Any recipient of an administrative citation may appeal the
determination of the department to the city manager by submitting a new request
for an advance deposit hardship waiver and returning it to the city within 10
days from the date of service of the city department’s determination;
otherwise, the department’s written determination shall be final.
      8.   If the city manager determines not to issue an advance deposit
hardship waiver, the person shall remit the deposit to the city within 10 days
of the date or the first business day thereafter of service of that decision or
45 days from the date of the administrative citation, whichever is later.
      9.   The city manager shall issue a written determination listing the
reasons for the determination to issue or not issue the advance deposit
hardship waiver, which shall be served upon the person who applied for the
advanced deposit hardship waiver. The written determination of the city manager
shall be final. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007; Ord. 1883, 5-4-2021)
2-149: HEARING OFFICER:
The city manager shall designate the hearing officer for the administrative
citation hearing. The hearing officer shall not be a current Porterville city
employee. The employment, performance evaluation, compensation and benefits of
the hearing officer, if any, shall not be directly or indirectly conditioned
upon the amount of administrative citation fines upheld by the hearing officer.
(Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
2-150: HEARING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Request For Hearing: No hearing to contest an administrative citation
before a hearing officer shall be held unless and until a request for hearing
form has been completed and submitted, and the fine has been deposited in
advance.
   B.   Setting Date For Hearing: A hearing before the hearing officer shall be
set for a date that is not less than fifteen (15) working days and not more
than sixty (60) working days from the date that the request for hearing is
filed in accordance with the provisions of this article. The person requesting
the hearing shall be notified of the time and place set for the hearing at
least ten (10) working days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Considering Evidence: The enforcement hearing officer shall only
consider evidence that is relevant to whether the violation(s) occurred and
whether the responsible person has caused or maintained the violation(s) of
this code, or state codes specifically adopted by reference in the applicable
chapters of this code, on the date(s) specified in the administrative citation.
   D.   Testimony And Witnesses Allowed: The responsible person contesting the
administrative citation shall be given the opportunity to testify and present
witnesses and evidence concerning the administrative citation.
   E.   Failure To Appear: The failure of any recipient of an administrative
citation to appear at the administrative citation hearing shall constitute a
forfeiture of the fine and a failure to exhaust their administrative remedies.
   F.   Evidence Of Facts: The administrative citation and any additional
documents submitted by the enforcement officer shall constitute prima facia
evidence of the respective facts contained in those documents.
   G.   Submission Of Additional Written Report To Hearing Officer: If the
enforcement officer submits an additional written report concerning the
administrative citation to the hearing officer for consideration at the
hearing, then a copy of this report also shall be served by mail on the person
requesting the hearing at least five (5) working days prior to the date of the
hearing. At least ten (10) working days prior to the hearing, the recipient of
an administrative citation shall be provided with copies of the citations,
reports and other documents submitted or relied upon by the enforcement
officer. No other discovery is permitted. Formal rules of evidence shall not
apply.
   H.   Continuation Of Hearing: The hearing officer may continue the hearing
and request additional information from the enforcement officer or the
recipient of the administrative citation prior to issuing a written decision.
(Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
2-151: HEARING OFFICER'S DECISION:
   A.   Issuance Of Written Decision: After considering all of the testimony
and evidence submitted at the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a
written decision within ten (10) working days of the close of the hearing to
uphold or deny the administrative citation and shall list in the decision the
reasons for that decision. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final,
subject to judicial review.
   B.   Citation Upheld: If the hearing officer determines that the
administrative citation should be upheld, then the fine amount on deposit with
the city shall be retained by the city.
   C.   Citation Dismissal: If the hearing officer determines that the
administrative citation should be dismissed, the city shall refund the amount
of the deposit within ten (10) working days of the date of its receipt of the
decision.
   D.   Notice Of Decision To Recipient: The recipient of the administrative
citation shall be served with a copy of the hearing officer's written decision
in the manner prescribed above. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
2-152: RECOVERY, COLLECTION AND LIEN PROCEDURES:
   A.   The failure of any person to pay the civil fines assessed by an
administrative citation within the time specified on the citation may result in
the matter being referred to the department designated by the City, to file a
claim with the small claims court. Alternatively, the City may pursue any other
legal remedy available pursuant to this Code or other applicable law to collect
the civil fines. To the extent permitted by law, the prevailing party shall be
entitled to its reasonable attorneys’ fees, consistent with Section
1-9.F.
   B.   In addition to any other legal remedy, as authorized by California
Government Code Section 38773.1 and Section
1-10 of this Code, the City may place a lien on property owned by the
responsible person/citee in an amount equal to the sum of the fines delinquent
for more than ninety days, plus penalties and interest. Imposition of the lien
must stem from a citation for the condition or use of real property, or its
improvements, owned by the citee. The following procedure shall be utilized,
unless otherwise specified in this Code:
      1.   The City Manager of his or her designee my initiate proceedings to
record a lien conforming with the Code if the decision is not appealed.
      2.   Before recording the lien, a report shall be submitted by the
appropriate department to the City Manager/designee stating the amount due and
owing.
      3.   The City Clerk shall schedule a time, date, and place for the City
Council to consider the report and any protests or objections to it.
      4.   The citee shall be served with a hearing notice not less than ten
(10) days before the hearing date. The notice must set forth the amount of the
delinquent administrative fine, and any penalties and interest that is due.
Each citee against whose property an assessment is levied pursuant to this Code
may also be assessed an administrative fee in an amount established by city
council resolution based on costs incurred in levying the assessment. The
administrative fee shall be included in the lien amount approved by the City
Council and recorded against the citee’s property. If the county recorder
imposes a fee on the city to reimburse the costs of processing and recording
the lien and/or providing notice, the City may recover any such costs from the
property owner as part of its foreclosure action to enforce the lien. Notice
shall be delivered first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to each citee’s
address as it appears on the last equalized assessment rolls or supplemental
roll of the County of Tulare, whichever is more current. Service by mail is
effective on the date of mailing and failure of citee to actually receive
notice does not affect its validity.
      5.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may adopt a
resolution confirming, discharging, or modifying the lien amount.
      6.   Recording a Lien: Within thirty (30) days following the City
Council’s adoption of a resolution imposing a lien, the appropriate shall file
same as a judgment lien in the Tulare County Recorder’s Office. Before
recordation of the lien, the City must give notice to the owner of record of
the subject parcel in the manner required by Government Code Section 38773.1
(b).
      7.   As authorized by California Government Code Section 38773.1, the
lien may be foreclosed by an action brought by the City for a money judgment.
      8.   Satisfaction of Lien: In the event the lien is discharged, released,
or satisfied, either through payment or foreclosure, notice of the discharge
containing the information specified in the lien shall be recorded by the City.
   C.   Alternative Proceedings pursuant to Section 38773.5: As an alternative
to the procedure set forth in subsection B. above, the City may make fines,
which are delinquent for over 90 days, together with any administrative fees
and costs, a special assessment against the parcel, in accord with Section
1-10 of this Code. Imposition of the assessment must stem from a citation for
the condition or use of real property, or its improvements, owned by the citee.
The City shall utilize the same notice and hearing procedures set forth in
subsection B and as required under Section
1-10 of this Code. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007; Ord. 1883, 5-4-2021)
2-153: RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of a hearing officer on an administrative
citation may obtain review of the administrative decision by filing a petition
for review with the Tulare County superior court in accordance with the time
lines and provisions as set forth in California Government Code section
53069.4. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
2-154: NOTICES:
   A.   The administration citation and all notices to be given by this article
shall be served on the responsible person in accordance with the provisions of
this article.
   B.   Failure to receive any notice specified in this article does not affect
the validity of proceedings conducted hereunder. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
2-155: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this article is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity or constitutionality of the remaining portions of this
article. The city council hereby declares that it would have passed this
article and each section, subsection, clause or phrase hereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and
phrases be declared unconstitutional. (Ord. 1720 § 3, 5-1-2007)
CHAPTER 3
ADVERTISING AND SIGNS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
3-1: Scope Of Article
3-2: Posting Notices And Bills On Utility Poles Prohibited
3-3: Permits For Banners Across Streets Required
3-1: SCOPE OF ARTICLE:
It is not the intention of this article to prohibit the labeling of such poles
or posts with numbers, danger signs permanently fastened or painted thereon, or
to prohibit posting notices of public improvement; provided, that when such
notices of public improvement shall have served their purpose, they shall be
removed and gathered up. (Ord. Code § 3121; Ord. 727 § 1)
3-2: POSTING NOTICES AND BILLS ON UTILITY POLES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to post on or fasten to or fasten or
attach, in any manner, to any power, light, telegraph or telephone pole or
other poles or posts, on or along any public street or alley in the city any
notice, poster, bill or advertising matter of any description. (Ord. Code §
3121; Ord. 727 § 1)
3-3: PERMITS FOR BANNERS ACROSS STREETS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or install across any
public street or alley in the city any banner, notice or advertisement matter
of any description, without first having secured from the city council a permit
therefor in writing. Any such permit request therefor, shall observe the
following:
   A.   Messages and announcements shall pertain to events or activities that
are of interest or benefit to the general public from local organizations.
   B.   The comment and wording of messages and announcements shall be approved
by the city council or its designee.
   C.   Announcements shall be nondiscriminatory in nature. (Ord. Code § 3121;
Ord. 727 § 1; Ord. 1367 § A(1), 11-18-1986)
ARTICLE II. HANDBILLS, ADVERTISING CIRCULARS, ETC.
SECTION:
3-7: License Required For Distribution
3-8: Newspapers Excepted From Applicability Of Article
3-9: Distribution On Public Property Or Automobiles On Public Property
Prohibited
3-10: Distribution On Private Property Prohibited Where Notice Posted
3-7: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR DISTRIBUTION:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to carry on, conduct or
engage in the business of distributing advertising matter, samples, dodgers,
handbills, or other notices of commercial advertising in the city, without
first having obtained from the city clerk a license to carry on and conduct
such business. (Ord. Code § 7414)
3-8: NEWSPAPERS EXCEPTED FROM APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE:
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed to apply to any newspaper,
or any publication printing news of a general nature and keeping advertising
space therein open to the public, and the publishing of general advertising
matter therein. (Ord. Code § 7413)
3-9: DISTRIBUTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY OR AUTOMOBILES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or throw upon any sidewalk,
alley, street, park, or other public place, in the city, or in any automobile,
truck, trailer or automotive vehicle, being upon any public street, alley,
driveway or park, not in the possession or control of the person so
distributing the same, any advertising sample, handbill, dodger, circular,
booklet, or other notice of commercial advertising. (Ord. Code § 7411)
3-10: DISTRIBUTION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED WHERE NOTICE POSTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or throw upon any private
yard, lawn, driveway, vacant lot, porch or steps of any residence, or in, or
upon, or in any part of any structure located thereon, in the city, not in the
possession or control of the person so distributing the same, any advertising
sample, handbill, dodger, circular, booklet, or other notice of commercial
advertising, where the owner, tenant, or person in possession thereof, has
posted upon such property, a notice forbidding the throwing and distribution of
the same, or any part thereof, upon such property. (Ord. Code § 7412)
ARTICLE III. SOUND TRUCKS AND SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
3-11: Definitions
3-12: Noncommercial Use; Registration Statement Required; Contents
3-13: Noncommercial Use; Amendment Of Registration Statement
3-14: Noncommercial Use; Disposition Of Registration Statement; Possession And
Display By Applicant
3-15: Noncommercial Use; Regulations Generally
3-16: Commercial Use; License Required; Fee
3-17: Commercial Use; Application For License
3-18: Commercial Use; Issuance Of License; Grounds For Refusal
3-19: Commercial Use; Possession And Display Of License
3-20: Commercial Use; Regulations For Use
3-11: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: Any machine or device for the amplification of
the human voice, music or any other sound. "Sound amplifying equipment" shall
not be construed as including standard automobile radios when used and heard
only by occupants of the vehicle in which installed or warning devices on
authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devices on other
vehicles used only for traffic safety purposes.
   SOUND TRUCK: Any motor vehicle, or horsedrawn vehicle, having mounted
thereon, or attached thereto any sound amplifying equipment. (Ord. Code §
7431.1)
3-12: NONCOMMERCIAL USE; REGISTRATION STATEMENT REQUIRED; CONTENTS:
   A.   No person shall use, or cause to be used, any vendor vehicle with its
sound amplifying equipment in operation for any purpose in the city before
filing a registration statement with the city police department in writing.
Political sound trucks and special events approved by the city council as
community events shall be exempt from this requirement but shall otherwise
comply with the California Vehicle Code.
   B.   This registration statement shall be filed in duplicate and shall state
the following:
      1.   Name and home address of the applicant.
      2.   Address of place of business of applicant.
      3.   License number and motor number of the sound truck to be used by
applicant.
      4.   Name and address of person who owns the vehicle or sound truck.
      5.   Name and address of person having direct charge of vehicle or sound
truck.
      6.   Names and addresses of all persons who will use or operate the
vehicle or sound truck.
      7.   The purpose for which the vehicle or sound truck will be used.
      8.   A general statement as to the section or sections of the city in
which the vehicle or sound truck will be used.
      9.   The proposed hours of operation of the sound amplifying equipment or
sound truck.
      10.   The number of days of proposed operation of the sound amplifying
equipment or sound truck.
      11.   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is to
be used.
      12.   The maximum sound producing power of the sound amplifying equipment
to be used in or on the sound truck. State the following:
         a.   The wattage to be used.
         b.   The volume in decibels of the sound which will be produced.
         c.   The approximate maximum distance for which sound will be thrown
from the sound truck. (Ord. Code § 7431.2; Ord. 1531 § B1, 6-18-1996)
3-13: NONCOMMERCIAL USE; AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION STATEMENT:
All persons using or causing to be used, sound trucks or sound amplifying
equipment for any purpose shall amend any registration statement filed pursuant
to section
3-12 of this article within forty eight (48) hours after any change in the
information therein furnished. (Ord. Code § 7431.2; Ord. 1531 § B2, 6-18-1996)
3-14: NONCOMMERCIAL USE; DISPOSITION OF REGISTRATION STATEMENT; POSSESSION AND
DISPLAY BY APPLICANT:
   A.   The city police department shall return to each applicant under section
3-12 of this article, one copy of the registration statement duly certified by
the city police department as a correct copy of the application.
   B.   Such certified copy of the sound registration statement shall be in the
possession of any person operating the sound amplifying equipment or sound
truck at all times while the sound amplifying equipment is in operation and
such copy shall be promptly displayed and shown to any law enforcement officer
of the city upon request. (Ord. Code § 7431.2; Ord. 1531 § B3, 6-18-1996)
3-15: NONCOMMERCIAL USE; REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
Use of sound trucks or any other vehicle in the city with sound amplifying
equipment in operation shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   The only sounds permitted are music.
   B.   Operation of sound equipment shall be permitted during the hours of
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   C.   Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated unless the vehicle or
sound truck upon which such equipment is mounted is operated at a speed of at
least ten (10) miles per hour except when such vehicle is stopped or impeded by
traffic. Where the vehicle is stopped, the sound amplifying equipment shall not
be operated for longer than one minute at each such stop.
   D.   Sound shall not be issued within one hundred (100) yards of hospitals,
schools, churches or courthouses.
   E.   The music amplified shall not be profane, lewd, indecent or slanderous.
   F.   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be audible
for a distance in excess of fifty feet (50') from the vehicle or sound truck
and so that such volume is not unreasonable, loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing
or a nuisance to persons within the area of audibility. (Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
3-16: COMMERCIAL USE; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall operate or cause to be operated, any sound truck in the city
for commercial advertising purposes with sound amplifying equipment in
operation unless a license has been obtained from the city police department.
The fee for such license shall be fixed by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. Code § 7431.4; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973; Ord. 1531 § B5, 6-18-1996)
3-17: COMMERCIAL USE; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Persons applying for the license required under section
3-16 of this article shall file with the city police department an application
in writing giving in such application the information required in the
registration statement under section
3-12 of this article. (Ord. Code § 7431.4; Ord. 1531 § B6, 6-18-1996)
3-18: COMMERCIAL USE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL:
The city police department shall issue a license under section
3-16 of this article upon payment of the required license fee unless the
application required in section
3-17 of this article reveals that the applicant would violate the regulations
prescribed in section
3-19 of this article or some other provision of this code or other ordinance of
the city. (Ord. Code § 7431.4; Ord. 1531 § B7, 6-18-1996)
3-19: COMMERCIAL USE; POSSESSION AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall keep the license required by section
3-16 of this article and such business license as issued to street vendors/
peddlers under chapter 15 of this code in his possession in the vehicle or
sound truck during the time the vehicle or sound truck's sound amplifying
equipment is in operation. The license(s) shall be promptly displayed and shown
to any law enforcement officer of the city upon request. (Ord. Code § 7431.4;
Ord. 1531 § B8, 6-18-1996)
3-20: COMMERCIAL USE; REGULATIONS FOR USE:
   A.   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, any vehicle with
sound amplifying equipment or sound truck for commercial sound advertising
purposes in violation of the regulations set forth in section
3-19 of this article.
   B.   Any person violating this article or any provisions thereof shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a term
not exceeding six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day
that any provision of this article is violated is a separate and distinct
offense and shall be punishable as separate and distinct offense.
Notwithstanding the classification of a violation of this article as a
misdemeanor, at the time an action is commenced to enforce the provisions of
this article, the trial court, upon recommendation of the prosecuting attorney,
may reduce the charged offense from a misdemeanor to an infraction. Any person
convicted of an infraction under this article shall be punished by:
      1.   A fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation;
      2.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second
violation of this article within one year; and
      3.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
additional violation of this article within one year. (Ord. Code § 7431.5; Ord.
1531 § B9, 6-18-1996)
ARTICLE IV. SIGNS 1
SECTION:
3-21: Title, Scope And Enforcement
3-22: Definitions And Abbreviations
3-23: Permits, Fees And Inspection
3-24: Design And Construction
3-25: Ground Signs
3-26: Wall Signs
3-27: Projecting Signs
3-28: Combination Signs
3-29: Marquees
3-30: Electric Signs
3-31: Temporary Signs And Banners
3-32: Violation And Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 21, article 305 of this code.
3-21: TITLE, SCOPE AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Title: This article shall be known as the UNIFORM SIGN CODE, may be
cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "this sign code".
   B.   Purpose And Scope: The purpose of this sign code is to provide minimum
standards to safeguard life, health, property and public welfare by regulating
and controlling the design, quality of materials, construction, location,
electrification, and maintenance of all signs and sign structures visible from
outside the building or intended for view by people outside the building. The
regulations of this sign code are not intended to permit any violation of the
provisions of any other lawful ordinance.
   C.   Enforcement: The building official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this sign code.
   D.   Right Of Entry: Upon presentation of proper credentials, the building
official or his duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times
any building, structure, or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed
upon him by this sign code.
   E.   Board Of Appeals: The board of appeals as provided in the currently
adopted building code and which has been established thereunder is the
appellate board to provide for reasonable interpretation of this article. (Ord.
1711, 2-20-2007)
3-22: DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
For the purpose of this sign code, certain abbreviations, terms, phrases, words
and their derivatives shall be construed as defined in chapter 21, section
700.02 of this code. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the
plural the singular. Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine
and the feminine the masculine. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007)
3-23: PERMITS, FEES AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Permits Required: No sign shall hereafter be erected, reerected,
constructed, altered, or maintained, except as provided by this sign code and a
permit for the same has been issued by the building official. A separate permit
shall be required for each sign. In addition, electrical permits shall be
obtained for electric signs.
   B.   Application: Application for a sign permit shall be made in writing
upon forms furnished by the building official. Such application shall contain
the location by street and number of the proposed sign structure, as well as
the name and address of the owner and the sign contractor or erector. The
building official may require the filing of plans and specifications to be
prepared and designed by an engineer or architect licensed by the state to
practice such.
   C.   Exceptions: Signs identified as exempt signs in chapter 21, article
305, "Signs", of this code shall not require a sign permit.
   D.   Sign Permit Fee: A fee for each sign permit shall be paid to the
building official as set forth in the schedule below.
      1.   The determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions
of this sign code shall be made by the building official.
      2.   Where work for which a permit is required by this sign code is
started or proceeded with prior to obtaining said permit, the fees specified
shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any
person from fully complying with the requirements of this sign code in the
execution of the work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
      3.   Fees will be collected based on:
         a.   A resolution adopted by the city council.
         b.   Electrical permit fee to be taken from ordinance 742 (codified as
section
7-11 of this code).
   E.   Plan Checking Fees: Where plans and other pertinent information are
required in accordance with subsection B of this section, a plan check fee as
per a resolution adopted by the city council shall be paid to the building
official.
   F.   Maintenance: All signs, together with all of their supports, braces,
guys, and anchors shall be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation.
The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted at all
times.
   G.   Inspections: All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject
to inspection by the building official.
      1.   Footing inspections will be required for all ground signs.
      2.   Electric signs shall be inspected before erection.
      3.   The building official may order the removal of any sign that is not
maintained in accordance with provisions of subsection F of this section.
      4.   All signs may be reinspected at the discretion of the building
official. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007; Ord. 1833, 6-21-2016)
3-24: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Design:
      1.   General:
         a.   Signs and sign structures shall be designed and constructed to
resist wind and seismic forces as specified in this section. All bracing
systems shall be designed and constructed to transfer lateral forces to the
foundations. For signs on buildings, the dead and lateral loads shall be
transmitted through the structural frame of the building to the ground in such
manner as not to overstress any of the elements thereof.
         b.   The overturning moment produced from lateral force shall be
transmitted through the ground in such manner as not to overstress any of the
elements thereof. The overturning moment produced from lateral forces shall in
no case exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the dead load resisting moment. Uplift due
to overturning shall be adequately resisted by proper anchorage to the ground
or to the structural frame of the building. The weight of earth superimposed
over footings may be used in determining the dead load resisting moment. Such
earth shall be carefully placed and thoroughly compacted.
      2.   Wind Loads:
         a.   For the purpose of design, and except for combination signs, wind
pressure shall be taken upon the gross area of the vertical projection of all
signs and sign structures at not less than fifteen (15) pounds per square foot
for those portions less than sixty feet (60') above the ground, and at not less
than twenty (20) pounds per square foot for those portions more than sixty feet
(60') above the ground.
         b.   Wind pressure upon combination signs and their support shall be
taken at not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot of the gross area of
the plane surface, acting in any direction. In calculating wind pressure on
curved surfaces such as cylindrical or spherical signs or sign structures, this
pressure shall be assumed to act on six-tenths (6/10) of the projected area. In
all open frame signs or sign structures, the area used in computing wind
pressure shall be one and one-half (11/2) times the net area of the framing
members exposed to the wind.
      3.   Seismic Loads: Signs and sign structures shall be designed and
constructed to resist seismic forces as specified in the currently adopted
building code.
      4.   Combined Load: Wind and seismic loads need not be combined in the
design of signs or sign structures; only that loading producing the larger
stresses need be used. Vertical design loads shall be assumed to be acting
simultaneously with the wind or seismic loads.
      5.   Allowable Stresses: The design of wood, concrete, or steel members
shall conform to the requirements of the currently adopted building code.
Loads, both vertical and horizontal, exerted on the soil shall not produce
stresses exceeding those specified in the currently adopted building code. The
working stresses for wind or seismic loads combined with dead loads may be
increased as specified in the currently adopted building code.
   B.   Construction:
      1.   General: The supports for all signs or sign structures shall be
placed in or upon private property and shall be securely built, constructed and
erected in conformance with the requirements of this sign code.
      2.   Material: Materials of construction for signs and sign structures
shall be of the quality and grade as specified for buildings in the currently
adopted building code. Anchors and supports when of wood are embedded in the
soil, or within six inches (6") of the soil, shall be of all heartwood of a
durable species or shall be pressure treated with an approved preservative.
Such members shall be marked or branded by an approved agency.
      3.   Restrictions On Combustible Materials: Ground signs may be
constructed of any material meeting the requirements of this sign code, except
as provided above. Combination signs, wall signs, projecting signs, and signs
on marquees shall be constructed of incombustible materials, except as provided
in subsection B4 of this section. No combustible materials other than approved
plastic materials shall be used in the construction of electric signs.
      4.   Nonstructural Trim: Nonstructural trim may be of wood, metal,
approved plastics, or any combination thereof.
      5.   Anchorage:
         a.   Members supporting unbraced signs shall be so proportioned that
the bearing loads imposed on the soil in either direction, horizontal or
vertical, shall not exceed the safe values. Braced ground signs shall be
anchored to resist the specified wind or seismic load acting in any direction.
Anchors and supports shall be designed for safe bearing loads on the soil and
for an effective resistance to overturning. Anchors and supports shall
penetrate to a depth below ground greater than that of the frost line.
         b.   Portable ground signs supported by frames or posts rigidly
attached to the base shall be so proportioned that the weight and size of the
base will be adequate to resist the wind pressure specified in subsection A2 of
this section.
         c.   Signs attached to masonry, concrete, or steel shall be safely and
securely fastened thereto by means of metal anchors, bolts, or approved
expansion screws of sufficient size and anchorage to support safely the loads
applied.
         d.   No wooden block or plugs or anchors with wood used in connection
with screws or nails shall be considered proper anchorage, except in the case
of signs attached to wood framing.
         e.   No anchor or support of any sign shall be connected to, or
supported by, a parapet wall, unless such wall is designed in accordance with
the requirements specified in the currently adopted building code for parapet
walls.
      6.   Display Surfaces: Display surfaces in all types of signs may be made
of metal, glass or approved plastics, in accordance with the area limitations
set forth in tables 4-A and 4-B of this article (section
3-25 of this article).
      7.   Restrictions As To Zoning Regulations: All signs shall comply with
zoning regulation ordinances of the city of Porterville.
      8.   Clearance From Electric Power Lines: No permit for any sign shall be
issued and no sign shall be constructed, installed, or erected which has less
horizontal or vertical clearance from energized electrical power lines than
prescribed by the California Penal Code section 385, the regulations of the
California public utility commission, and the orders of division of industrial
safety, state of California. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007)
3-25: GROUND SIGNS:
   A.   General: Ground signs may be constructed of any material meeting the
requirements of this sign code, except as provided in subsection
3-24B3 of this article.
   B.   Design: Ground signs shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements specified in section
3-24 of this article.
   C.   Projection: Ground signs shall not project over public property or
beyond a building line. For projection of combination signs, see section
3-28 of this article.
   TABLE 4-A
   LIMITATIONS OF APPROVED PLASTICS IN SIGNS
 
Area Of Facing Or Display Surface   Area Occupied Or Covered By Approved
                                    Plastic Materials
100 square feet or less             100 percent of display surface area
Over 100 square feet, but less than 100 square feet plus 25 percent of the
2,000 square feet                   difference between 100 square feet and
                                    the area of the display surface
Over 2,000 square feet              Not over 575 square feet
 
   TABLE 4-B
   SIZE, THICKNESS AND TYPE OF GLASS PANELS IN SIGNS
 
Maximum Size Of
Exposed Glass Panel
Any Dimension In Area In Square Minimum Thickness Of Type Of Glass
Inches           Inches         Glass In Inches
   30            500         1/8            Plain, plate or wired
45               700            3/16                 Plain, plate or wired
144              3,600          1/4                  Plain, plate or wired
Over 144         Over 3,600     1/4                  Wired
 
(Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007)
3-26: WALL SIGNS:
   A.   General: Wall signs shall be constructed of materials compliant with
title 24 of the California building code, except as provided in subsection
3-24B4 of this article.
   B.   Design: Wall signs shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements specified in section
3-24 of this article.
   C.   Projections: Signs or advertising structures projecting not more than
six inches (6") from the face of a building or any other supporting structure,
over a public sidewalk or any other public property, shall have a minimum
clearance of eight feet (8') above the pavement or finished grade. (Ord. 1711,
2-20-2007)
3-27: PROJECTING SIGNS:
   A.   General: Projecting signs shall be constructed of materials compliant
with title 24 of the California building code, except as specified in
subsection
3-24B4 of this article.
   B.   Design: Projecting signs shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements specified in section
3-24 of this article.
   C.   Residential Districts: In any residentially zoned district, with the
exception of newspaper and mail receptacles, no sign or advertising structure
shall extend or project over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other
public property unless exempted under the zoning ordinance.
   D.   Projections Over Travelways Or Walkways: Signs or advertising
structures projecting more than six inches (6") from the face of a building, or
any other supporting structure, over travelways or walkways on private property
used or intended to be used by the general public, shall have a minimum
clearance of eight feet (8') above the pavement or finished grade. Such signs
may not project greater than forty eight inches (48").
   E.   Wall Signs; Other Signs Projecting Into Alley: No wall sign shall have
a projection over public property or beyond a building line greater than the
distances set forth in this sign code, nor extend above any adjacent parapet or
roof of the supporting building. No sign or sign structure shall project into
any public alley whatsoever, below a height of eight feet (8') above grade, nor
more than eight inches (8") when over eight feet (8').
   F.   Clearance Above Pavement Or Finished Grade: Signs or advertising
structures projecting more than six inches (6") from the face of a building or
any other supporting structure, over a public sidewalk or any other public
property, shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet (10') above the pavement
or finished grade.
   G.   Horizontal Dimensions: No sign or advertising structure shall exceed a
horizontal dimension of more than thirty inches (30") when projecting from the
face of any building or any other supporting structure, whether privately or
publicly owned. When the sign projects over a public sidewalk or any other
public property, and is suspended from or supported by a rod, anchor, or other
hardware, the overall horizontal dimension may not exceed thirty six inches
(36"). When the sign projects over a public sidewalk or any other public
property, and when said sign is placed on or suspended from an awning, canopy,
or marquee, the overall horizontal dimension must not exceed forty eight inches
(48").
   H.   Restrictions In Certain Districts: Signs or advertising structures in
any residential, PO, and CN zoned districts may not be attached to the roof of
a building, nor shall it exceed the height of the lowest roof line of the
building to which it is attached.
   I.   Clearance:
      1.   No sign or sign structure shall be erected in such a manner that any
portion of its surface or supports will interfere in any way with the free use
of any fire escape, exit or standpipe. No sign shall obstruct any window to
such an extent that any light or ventilation is reduced to a point below that
required by any law or ordinance.
      2.   Signs shall be so located as to maintain all required clearances
from overhead power and service lines. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007; Ord. 1801, 12-3-
2013)
3-28: COMBINATION SIGNS:
   A.   General: Combination signs shall be constructed of incombustible
materials, except as provided in subsection
3-24B4 of this article.
   B.   Design: All supports of combination signs shall be placed in or upon
private property and shall be securely built, constructed and erected to
conform with the requirements specified in section
3-24 of this article.
   C.   Projection:
      1.   Signs may project over public property or beyond a building line as
set forth in chapter 21, section
305.10 of this code.
      2.   The individual requirements of projecting and ground signs shall be
applied for combination signs incorporating any or all of the aforesaid
features. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007)
3-29: MARQUEES:
Signs may be placed on, attached to, or constructed in a marquee. Such signs
shall, for the purpose of determining projection clearance, height and
material, be considered a part of and shall meet the requirement for a marquee
as specified in the currently adopted building code. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007)
3-30: ELECTRIC SIGNS:
   A.   General: Electric signs shall be constructed of incombustible
materials, except as provided in subsection
3-24B3 of this article. The enclosed shell of electric signs shall be
watertight, excepting that service holes fitted with covers shall be provided
into each compartment of such signs.
   B.   Installation: Electric equipment used in connection with display sign
shall be installed in accordance with local ordinances regulating electrical
installations.
   C.   Erector's Name: Every electric sign projecting over any street or alley
or public place shall have painted on the surface of the sign the name of the
sign erector and date of erection. Such name and date shall be of sufficient
size and contrast to be readable from a reasonable distance. Failure to provide
such name and date shall be grounds for rejection of the sign by the building
official. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007)
3-31: TEMPORARY SIGNS AND BANNERS:
Refer to ordinance 727 (codified as article I of this chapter), and chapter 21,
article 305 of this code, which shall apply. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007)
3-32: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish,
equip, use or maintain any sign or structure in the city or cause or permit the
same to be done contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of this
sign code.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
sign code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of this sign code is
committed, continued, or permitted, and, upon conviction of any such violation,
such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1711, 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 4
AIRPORT
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
4-1.00: General Provisions
4-1.05: Definitions
4-1.00: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter may be referred to as the PORTERVILLE
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS. It may be amended by a majority vote
of the city council of the city of Porterville, California.
   B.   Necessity: This chapter is enacted to protect the health, safety and
peace, and to promote the welfare and convenience of the general public using
the Porterville municipal airport, or affected by activities related to the
airport by providing for the orderly conduct of activities on, or related to,
the airport.
   C.   Authority: The provisions of these rules and regulations are intended
to augment the existing laws of the state of California by the authority of
title IX of the aeronautics act, Public Utilities Code sections 2100 et seq.,
the federal aviation regulations and this chapter. The city of Porterville, as
owner of the airport, is directed by federal and state law to provide for the
safe and efficient operation of the facility as a public airport, and to
provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the flying public.
   D.   Applicability: The provisions in these rules and regulations shall be
applicable to any and all persons upon the airport, who lease or rent property
directly from the city of Porterville, who have been granted any license or
permit by the city of Porterville, and to any person(s) engaged in activities
thereon. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-1.05: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions and meanings shall
apply unless otherwise specified:
   AEROBATICS: Maneuvers intentionally performed by an aircraft involving an
abrupt change in its attitude, an abnormal attitude, or an abnormal
acceleration, or deceleration.
   AIR CARRIER: Any person who undertakes directly, by lease, or other
arrangement, to engage in air transportation of persons or things. They
operate, in various categories, under authority or certification by the
California public utilities commission. Categories include certificated route
air carriers, trunk carriers, flag carriers, local service carriers, all-cargo
carriers, helicopter carriers, commercial air operators, air taxi operators,
and charter air carriers.
   AIR OPERATIONS AREA: Any area used for landing, taking off, taxiing or
surface maneuvering aircraft.
   AIR TRAFFIC: Aircraft operating in the air or on an airport surface,
exclusive of loading ramps or parking areas.
   AIR TRAFFIC CLEARANCE: An authorization issued by air traffic control
personnel for an aircraft to proceed under specified traffic conditions within
controlled airspace.
   AIRCRAFT: A device that is used, or intended to be used, for flight in the
air. This includes airplanes, helicopters and gliders, and lighter than air
devices such as blimps or balloons, but does not include hang gliders. (See
Ultralights FARs part 103.)
   AIRPORT: The Porterville municipal airport, its buildings and facilities,
all lands owned by the city adjacent to the airport, including airspace above
such land and the designated approaches thereto.
   AIRPORT OPERATIONS MANAGER: That person or his designee (airport operations
supervisor), designated by the city of Porterville, as the competent authority
charged with the safe and efficient operation of the airport and the
enforcement of the regulations herein.
   AUTO ROTATION: A rotor craft flight condition in which the lifting rotor is
driven entirely by the action of air when the rotor craft (helicopter) is in
motion.
   BALLOON: A lighter than air aircraft that is not engine driven.
   BASED AIRCRAFT: Any aircraft which utilizes the airport as a base of
operations and is assigned a permanent parking space, tie down, or hangar space
on the airport or adjoining property, for the period of at least one month, by
virtue of a lease agreement.
   CEILING: The height above the earth's surface of the lowest layer of clouds
or obscuring phenomena, that is reported as "broken", "overcast", or
"obscuration", and is not classified "thin" or "partial".
   CITY: The city of Porterville.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATOR: Any person who, for compensation or hire, engages in
the carriage of persons, property or mail in air commerce, or engages in other
aerial activity such as flight instruction, aerial photography, firefighting,
agricultural aviation activities, and/or traffic surveillance.
   COMMERCIAL USE: Use of the Porterville municipal airport for revenue
producing commercial activities.
   COMMON USE AREA: All runways for landing and takeoff, all runway markers,
guidance, signal, and beacon lights used to guide aircraft operations; all
apparatus or equipment for disseminating weather and wind information, for
signaling, for radio directional finding, or for radio or other electrical
communication and any other structure, equipment or mechanism having similar
purpose for guiding or controlling flight in the air or the landing and takeoff
of aircraft, and together with such aprons, ramps, tie down area, taxiway and
improvements.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Porterville, who, as governing body
of the municipality which owns the airport, is final authority in all matters
of policy and procedure in the operation of the airport.
   FIXED BASE OPERATOR (FBO): Any person who rents, leases or owns facilities
located in an area designated for FBOs at the Porterville municipal airport,
who, by virtue of his specific type of aviation (or aviation related) activity,
requires the occupancy of a site with contiguous aircraft apron and direct
access to the aircraft operation area, and who engages in a business activity
providing aviation sales or services, including, but not limited to, any of the
following:
   A.   Selling and/or servicing new and used aircraft and component parts.
   B.   Aircraft maintenance and repairs.
   C.   Sales and/or repair of avionics.
   D.   Aviation training (including ground or flight instruction).
   E.   Aerial photography.
   F.   Air ambulance service.
   G.   Aircraft agricultural operations (crop dusting, spraying, or the
application of seed, fertilizers, pesticides, defoliants, etc.).
   H.   Aircraft rental, charter, and leasing.
   I.   Hangar rentals in support of FBOs.
   FLIGHT VISIBILITY: The average forward horizontal distance from the cockpit
of an aircraft in flight, at which prominent unlighted objects may be seen and
identified by night.
   GROUND VISIBILITY: Prevailing horizontal visibility near the earth's
surface.
   HELICOPTER: A rotor driven aircraft (rotorcraft) that, for its horizontal
motion, depends primarily on its engine driven rotors.
   IFR: Instrument flight rules covering meteorological conditions below the
minimums for flight under visual (VFR) conditions.
   MAINTENANCE: Inspection, overhaul, repair, preservation and the replacement
of parts, but excludes preventive maintenance.
   MAXIMUM GROSS LANDING WEIGHT: The maximum landing weight stipulated for a
particular aircraft by the federal aviation administration (FAA).
   MOTOR VEHICLE: As defined in section 415 of the California Vehicle Code.
   NIGHT: The time between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning
of morning civil twilight as published in the American air almanac, converted
to local time.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity, and includes a trustee,
receiver, assignee or similar representative of any of them.
   RAMP: The area used for the parking and maneuvering, loading, and servicing
of aircraft while they are on the ground.
   TRAFFIC PATTERN: The traffic flow that is prescribed for aircraft landing
at, or taking off from, the Porterville municipal airport.
   TRANSIENT AIRCRAFT: All aircraft not permanently based at the airport (as
opposed to based aircraft).
   ULTRALIGHT: A vehicle to be used as an in-air manned operation for
recreation or sport. If powered, weighs less than two hundred fifty four (254)
pounds empty, having a maximum fuel capacity of five (5) U.S. gallons, not
capable of more than fifty five (55) knots at full power at level flight and
having a power off stall speed of twenty four (24) knots or less.
   VFR: Visual flight rules covering meteorological conditions, above those
requiring flight under IFR conditions.
   WORD CONSTRUCTION: The following construction applies throughout this
chapter:
   A.   Words importing the singular include the plural.
   B.   Words importing the plural include the singular.
   C.   Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine. (Ord. 1652 §
B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE II. AIRPORT OPERATION AREA REQUIREMENTS, GENERAL
SECTION:
4-2.05: Responsibilities
4-2.10: Hours Of Operation
4-2.15: Common Use Areas
4-2.20: Maintenance
4-2.25: Animals
4-2.30: Based Aircraft
4-2.35: Commercial Activity
4-2.40: Aircraft Storage And Parking
4-2.45: Unattended Aircraft
4-2.50: Restricted Areas
4-2.55: Dumping Refuse
4-2.60: Place Of Abode
4-2.05: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Management: It shall be the responsibility of the airport manager/
airport operations supervisor of Porterville municipal airport to fairly and
impartially administer the Porterville municipal airport rules and regulations.
The airport manager/airport operations supervisor is responsible for the safe
and efficient operation of the airport.
   B.   Users: It shall be the responsibility of every user of the Porterville
municipal airport, pilot or other, to become familiar with the Porterville
municipal airport rules and regulations and to obey those rules and
regulations. The use of the airport or any of its facilities in any manner
shall constitute an acceptance by the user of these rules and regulations and
shall create an obligation on the part of the user to abide by and obey said
rules and regulations. A copy will be maintained current to reflect any
amendments and will be posted in the administration building. Additional copies
will be provided by the Porterville municipal airport manager/airport
operations supervisor to any user of the airport who requests a copy. (Ord.
1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.10: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The Porterville municipal airport shall be open for public use (24 hours),
subject to any restrictions imposed by the airport manager/airport operations
supervisor, the condition of the landing area, the presentation of special
events, construction or repair activities, or similar causes. The airport is
attended from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. daily in
the winter and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. daily in
the summer. Services may be obtained at other times by contacting the numbers
posted on the door of the airport lobby. A call out fee will by charged per the
airport fee schedule set by city council resolution. The fee schedule will be
reviewed by city council on an annual basis. (Winter hours are October 1
through May 15; summer hours are May 16 through September 30, unless situations
occur that require the airport manager to modify the hours.) (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-
20-2004)
4-2.15: COMMON USE AREAS:
All runways, taxiway, and associated turnoffs, and aprons, together with
associated lighting, marking and navigational fixtures shall be considered
common use areas and shall be maintained as being available for use by all
persons flying or operating aircraft on the airport. Certain areas of the main
ramp, including parking areas and helipads shall also be designated as common
use areas. No FBO or other person shall use any common use area for the parking
or storing of aircraft, repair, servicing, or for any other purpose other than
the flying and operation of aircraft, without the prior consent or
authorization of the airport manager/airport operations supervisor. (Ord. 1652
§ B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.20: MAINTENANCE:
Unless otherwise authorized by the airport manager/airport operations
supervisor, no aircraft or vehicle maintenance (other than that required to
remove damaged aircraft from the runway or taxiway, or replacing a flat tire)
shall be performed on the Porterville municipal airport except in areas
specifically designated by the airport manager/airport operations supervisor
for that purpose. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.25: ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall wilfully and knowingly permit any animal owned,
possessed or harbored by him to enter the airport unless the animal is leashed
or restricted so as to be under control, or in a shipping container, or
otherwise under physical restraint. Nor shall he permit such animal, except a
"seeing eye" dog, to enter any airport building.
   B.   Owner shall be responsible for cleanup of animal defecation. (Ord. 1652
§ B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.30: BASED AIRCRAFT:
Any person desiring to store or base his/her aircraft at the Porterville
municipal airport shall register his aircraft at the airport office prior to
beginning such storage or operations, and at any time that a change in
ownership occurs. The use of the airport or any of its facilities in any manner
shall create an obligation on the part of the user to obey all of the rules and
regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.35: COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY:
No person shall utilize the Porterville municipal airport for any revenue
producing commercial activities without first obtaining a business license from
the city for such activities and paying the fees and charges established for
such use. The airport manager/airport operations supervisor shall maintain
available for examination upon request, a schedule of fees and charges for the
use of the airport and its facilities. Any aircraft owner who fails to pay any
fee duly charged for aircraft owned or controlled by him shall have such
aircraft subject to impounding until the fees are paid, along with any impound
fees, or until the aircraft is sold for charges. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.40: AIRCRAFT STORAGE AND PARKING:
Aircraft shall only be stored or parked at places designated by the airport
manager/airport operations supervisor and such storage or parking shall be at
the sole risk of the owner or operator of the aircraft, and without any
responsibility of the Porterville municipal airport, the city, or any of its
officers, agents or employees, for any loss of, or damage to the aircraft while
so stored or parked. The owner or operator of the aircraft shall be responsible
for the tying down and securing of his aircraft. He shall likewise be
responsible for any liability arising from or caused by his aircraft or his
activities. Transient aircraft shall only be parked in the area designated by
the airport manager/airport operations supervisor. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.45: UNATTENDED AIRCRAFT:
No aircraft shall be left unattended on the airport unless properly secured or
within a hangar. Owners of the aircraft left unattended shall be liable for
damage to other aircraft or property resulting from the failure to adequately
secure or tie down their aircraft. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.50: RESTRICTED AREAS:
No person shall enter any restricted area which is posted or closed to the
public except: a) persons duly authorized by the airport manager/airport
operations supervisor; or b) law enforcement or firefighting personnel. (Ord.
1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.55: DUMPING REFUSE:
No person shall place, deposit, or dump any garbage, cans, bottles, papers,
ashes, sewage, carcass of any dead animal, or any trash, rubbish, debris, or
any other refuse in any location on the airport except in containers plainly
marked for such purposes. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-2.60: PLACE OF ABODE:
No person shall erect lodge shelters, structures, or house(s) on the airport
nor shall any person reside at the airport without consent of the city council.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE III. AIRCRAFT FLIGHT RULES, GENERAL
SECTION:
4-3.05: Starting Engines
4-3.10: Taxiing
4-3.15: Takeoffs And Landings
4-3.20: Traffic Pattern
4-3.25: Noise
4-3.05: STARTING ENGINES:
No person shall start any aircraft engine on the Porterville Municipal Airport:
   A.   Unless a competent operator is at the controls;
   B.   Unless the aircraft is equipped with adequate brakes fully applied or
the wheels are securely blocked with blocks or chocks that can be removed
safely;
   C.   When the aircraft is in such a position that the propeller slipstream
or jet blast can cause damage to, or interfere with the operation of other
aircraft, vehicles, mobile equipment, hangar shops or other buildings, or can
cause injury to passengers, spectators or other personnel. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-
20-2004)
4-3.10: TAXIING:
   A.   No person shall taxi any aircraft into, out of, or within any hangar or
other building on or adjacent to the airport.
   B.   Nor shall any person move any aircraft under its own power on the
airport unless he is in full control of such aircraft, and has assured himself
that there is no danger of collision with other aircraft, vehicles, equipment,
buildings, or other obstacles.
   C.   Aircraft shall be taxied at a safe speed.
   D.   No aircraft shall use the runway for taxi back purpose, unless
communicating intentions over Unicom.
   E.   No aircraft shall be taxied without an adequate braking system, unless
aircraft is accompanied by an attendant to help in stopping or slowing
movement. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-3.15: TAKEOFFS AND LANDINGS:
No aeronautical activity shall be conducted at the Porterville Municipal
Airport except in conformance with current federal air regulations, state of
California law and regulations, and this chapter. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-3.20: TRAFFIC PATTERN:
It is recommended that every aircraft, before landing and after takeoff, shall
be flown in accordance with the traffic pattern illustrated on the diagrams
included in chapter 21, article 500 of this code. Aircraft traveling faster
than one hundred twenty five (125) knots per hour, shall be flown using the
outside pattern shown on said chapter 21. If a conflict is observed, the right
of way rules of FAR 91.113 shall prevail. In all cases, the offending aircraft
shall yield the right of way as appropriate and overfly the pattern to reenter
the downwind leg of the pattern. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-3.25: NOISE:
   A.   No person shall operate any aircraft in flight or on the ground so as
to cause unnecessary noise as determined by the applicable federal or state or
local laws and regulations.
   B.   No person shall unnecessarily create noise through loudspeaker systems,
radios or other means, or to create disturbances of a nature which will disturb
other airport tenants or users of the airport facility. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-
2004)
ARTICLE IV. VEHICLE OPERATIONS
SECTION:
4-4.05: General
4-4.10: Right Of Way
4-4.15: Motor Vehicle Speed Limits
4-4.20: Parking
4-4.25: Short Term Parking
4-4.30: Long Term Storage
4-4.35: Accident Reports
4-4.40: Motorbikes, Bicycles, Skateboards
4-4.05: GENERAL:
All persons who operate motor vehicles on airport premises shall do so in
accordance with all applicable federal, state, and city rules and regulations.
The airport operations area was designed for aircraft use and for safety.
Vehicular traffic must be kept to a minimum. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-4.10: RIGHT OF WAY:
Motor vehicle traffic shall yield the right of way to aircraft. Right of way
shall also be given to emergency response equipment and aircraft fueling
vehicles. When emergency conditions exist on the field area, motor vehicles not
involved in the emergency shall remain a safe distance away from the emergency
area and abide by all existing airport regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-4.15: MOTOR VEHICLE SPEED LIMITS:
No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the airport in excess of ten (10)
miles per hour, except emergency vehicles responding to an emergency situation.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-4.20: PARKING:
Vehicles shall not be parked on the airport other than in the manner and
locations indicated by posted traffic signs. Vehicles parked other than as
specified in this section may be removed by airport personnel, and in such
event a towing charge will be levied prior to releasing the vehicle from
impound. No liability for damages sustained by such vehicles during said
movement will be assumed by the city of Porterville or any of its officers or
employees. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-4.25: SHORT TERM PARKING:
The parking lot located adjacent to the administration building is available
for public parking for less than seventy two (72) hours. Parking inside the
airport security fences, in a designated parking area, is permitted for a fee
per the airport fee schedule set by city council resolution. This fee schedule
will be reviewed by city council on an annual basis. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-4.30: LONG TERM STORAGE:
The city does not authorize long term storage of vehicles, operable or not,
except as provided below:
Persons desiring to store and not move a vehicle off the airport's common area
for more than seventy two (72) consecutive hours must ask the permission of the
airport manager/airport operations supervisor. A long term parking permit may
be purchased. The permit fee shall be set by city council resolution. This fee
schedule will be reviewed by city council on an annual basis. (Ord. 1652 § B,
4-20-2004)
4-4.35: ACCIDENT REPORTS:
All persons involved in a vehicle accident, occurring on the airport, shall
make a full report to the city police department as soon after the accident as
possible. This report shall include names and addresses of all persons
involved. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-4.40: MOTORBIKES, BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS:
Skateboards are prohibited on the airport. Further, no person shall ride or
park motorbikes, bicycles, or other equipment in the aircraft movement area in
such a manner as to cause distraction or create an obstruction to aircraft,
pedestrian traffic or authorized vehicles or in front of "No Vehicle Parking"
signs. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE V. FIRE HAZARDS
SECTION:
4-5.00: Compliance With Fire Code
4-5.05: Sources Of Ignition
4-5.10: Smoking
4-5.15: Housekeeping
4-5.20: Fire Department Access
4-5.25: Dispensing Flammable And Combustible Liquids
4-5.30: Combustible Storage Inside Of Hangars
4-5.35: Hazardous Material Disposal
4-5.40: Aircraft Maintenance
4-5.45: Cleaning Parts
4-5.50: Spills
4-5.55: Notification Of Fire Department In Event Of Spill
4-5.60: Engine Run
4-5.65: Portable Fire Extinguishers
4-5.70: Reporting Of Use
4-5.75: Operation, Maintenance And Use Of Aircraft Fueling Vehicles
4-5.80: Open Flames On Aircraft Fuel Servicing Ramps
4-5.85: Aircraft Fuel Servicing Locations
4-5.00: COMPLIANCE WITH FIRE CODE:
All activities at the Porterville municipal airport shall be in compliance with
the latest edition of the uniform fire code (UFC) with state amendments as
adopted by the city of Porterville. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.05: SOURCES OF IGNITION:
Open flames, flame producing devices and other sources of ignition shall not be
permitted except where allowed by the fire code. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.10: SMOKING:
Smoking shall be prohibited in aircraft refueling vehicles, commercial aircraft
hangars, and aircraft operation areas. No smoking signs shall be provided in
accordance with the fire code. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.15: HOUSEKEEPING:
The aircraft operation area (AOA) and related areas shall be kept free of
combustible debris at all times. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.20: FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS:
Fire lanes and access roads shall be provided and maintained and shall not be
blocked. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.25: DISPENSING FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS:
Dispensing, transferring and storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall
be in accordance with UFC. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.30: COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE INSIDE OF HANGARS:
Combustible materials stored in aircraft hangars shall be stored in approved
locations and containers as allowed by the fire code. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-
2004)
4-5.35: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DISPOSAL:
No person shall dispose of any hazardous materials in any manner other than as
designated by the United States environmental protection agency, the department
of environmental conservation, the laws and regulations of the state of
California, the city of Porterville and/or otherwise designated by the airport
manager/airport operations supervisor. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.40: AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE:
Aircraft maintenance shall only be done in accordance with the UFC. (Ord. 1652
§ B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.45: CLEANING PARTS:
Class 1-A liquids shall not be used to clean aircraft, aircraft parts or
aircraft engines. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.50: SPILLS:
Spills shall be cleaned immediately. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.55: NOTIFICATION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT IN EVENT OF SPILL:
The fire department shall be notified of any fuel spill that is considered a
hazard to people or property or that meets one or more of the following
criteria, any dimension of the spill is greater than ten feet (10'), or the
spill area is greater than fifty (50) square feet. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.60: ENGINE RUN:
Aircraft engines shall not be run in aircraft hangars except in approved engine
test areas. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.65: PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS:
Portable fire extinguishers shall be provided as per the fire code. (Ord. 1652
§ B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.70: REPORTING OF USE:
Use of any fire extinguisher equipment under any circumstances shall be
reported to the airport manager/airport operations supervisor of the airport
and the fire chief immediately after use. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.75: OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND USE OF AIRCRAFT FUELING VEHICLES:
Operation, maintenance and use of aircraft fueling vehicles shall be in
compliance with the fire code. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-5.80: OPEN FLAMES ON AIRCRAFT FUEL SERVICING RAMPS:
Open flames and open flame devices are prohibited within fifty feet (50') of
any aircraft fuel servicing operation or fueling equipment. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-
20-2004)
4-5.85: AIRCRAFT FUEL SERVICING LOCATIONS:
Aircraft fuel transfer operations shall be prohibited indoors and comply with
the fire code. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE VI. AIRCRAFT HANGARS/TIE DOWN PERMITS
SECTION:
4-6.05: General
4-6.10: Aircraft Storage
4-6.15: Tenants/Lessee
4-6.20: Hangar/Tie Down Agreements
4-6.22: City Owned Hangars
4-6.25: Proof Of Ownership
4-6.30: Additional Use
4-6.35: Agreement/Permit Transference
4-6.40: Incidental Storage
4-6.41: Vehicle Storage
4-6.45: Outside Parking
4-6.50: Maintenance
4-6.51: Disassembled Aircraft
4-6.55: Engine Run
4-6.60: Business Activities
4-6.65: Additional Occupancy
4-6.70: Hangar Inspection
4-6.75: Fire And Safety
4-6.76: Bequest Of Hangar/Tie Down/Lease
4-6.77: Use Of Hangar/Tie Down
4-6.80: Payment Terms And Conditions
4-6.85: Notice Of Infraction
4-6.05: GENERAL:
This article refers to the general occupancy of private aircraft storage
hangars on the airport. Distinction is made between such small hangars and
larger FBOs or aircraft maintenance facilities. This article applies
exclusively to smaller, private aircraft storage hangars. The occupancy of
larger maintenance or FBO hangars is addressed in article VII of this chapter.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.10: AIRCRAFT STORAGE:
No person shall park or store any aircraft or associated equipment in any
hangar on the airport except by authority of and in compliance with the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.15: TENANTS/LESSEE:
All tenants of hangars and/or holders of tie down permits shall be subject to
the following terms and conditions:
   A.   Aircraft shall be stored only in hangars or tie down spaces assigned by
the airport manager/airport operations supervisor. Occasionally it may be
necessary for the airport manager/airport operations supervisor to relocate
airplanes.
   B.   When more than one aircraft (owned by the same person) can be stored
safely in a hangar the airport manager/airport operations supervisor will be
notified in writing. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.20: HANGAR/TIE DOWN AGREEMENTS:
All hangar agreements and tie down permits (except hangars and tie downs under
control of concession lessees) shall be assigned by the airport manager/airport
operations supervisor based upon present rent or fees. An agreement for
permanent hangar storage or tie down permit must be in the name of an
individual, flying club, corporation or entity. Tenants/permittee(s)/lessee(s)
must be at least eighteen (18) years old to sign a permit agreement. (Ord. 1652
§ B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.22: CITY OWNED HANGARS:
All city owned hangar tenants shall be responsible for hangar damage caused by
their occupancy other than proven vandalism or acts of God. Such damage refers
particularly to rough use or misuse of hangar doors by tenants or visitors.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.25: PROOF OF OWNERSHIP:
The airport manager/airport operations supervisor shall require tenants/
permittees to establish proof of ownership or vested interest for the aircraft.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.30: ADDITIONAL USE:
Individual aircraft hangars are allowed on the airport for the primary purpose
of aircraft storage and the normal maintenance, repair and service activities
associated with said aircraft. Any additional uses within said hangars shall
comply with all applicable city regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.35: AGREEMENT/PERMIT TRANSFERENCE:
Lessee shall not sublet the premises, or any part thereof or assign, transfer,
mortgage, or otherwise convey this agreement without the prior written consent
of the city. Any consent by the city to any sublease, assignment, transfer,
mortgage, or conveyance shall not be deemed or construed as a consent to any
other different or subsequent sublease, assignment, transfer, mortgage, or
conveyance. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.40: INCIDENTAL STORAGE:
Storage of personal items, in addition to aircraft storage, within the hangar
shall conform to all local fire and safety codes and the provisions of these
regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.41: VEHICLE STORAGE:
Vehicles belonging to the hangar or aircraft owner and guests may be stored in
the hangar while the aircraft is away, or for other short durations of time.
The storage of any motor vehicle within a hangar shall conform to applicable
fire and safety codes. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.45: OUTSIDE PARKING:
No vehicle shall be parked or left unattended in any aircraft operating area or
in a manner which limits aircraft operation. Vehicles may be stopped in such
areas for short periods of time so long as the owner is readily available to
move the vehicles should the needs of aircraft traffic so dictate. (Ord. 1652 §
B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.50: MAINTENANCE:
Maintenance in private hangars shall be limited to routine service and
inspection of owner's personal aircraft. Said maintenance may include minor
repair, required lubrication and engine oil change, and component replacement
by aircraft owner or authorized mechanic. All other maintenance activities
shall be done in accordance with applicable fire and safety codes. Other FAA
maintenance tasks are approved only if the hangar meets current building, fire,
and zoning regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.51: DISASSEMBLED AIRCRAFT:
Aircraft in any state of disrepair or assembly may be stored in the hangar
while awaiting repairs. Long term storage of such aircraft shall be subject to
the fire and safety provisions of this code. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.55: ENGINE RUN:
No aircraft engine shall be run while inside any hangar. Aircraft shall be
moved from the hangar to a safe position as provided in section
4-3.05 of this chapter for run up, or at least outside of the hangar for low
power engine runs. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.60: BUSINESS ACTIVITIES:
No person shall conduct any type of business activity or service from
individual hangars, unless specifically authorized by city. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-
20-2004)
4-6.65: ADDITIONAL OCCUPANCY:
No residential occupancy or use shall be allowed in an aircraft storage hangar
or elsewhere on the airport unless specifically authorized by city. (Ord. 1652
§ B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.70: HANGAR INSPECTION:
City may inspect each hangar annually, and more often if deemed necessary to
determine compliance. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.75: FIRE AND SAFETY:
All occupants of aircraft hangars shall comply with this article, as well as
all principles of fire safety. All persons shall exercise the utmost care to
guard against any threat of fire or injury to persons and property on the
airport. All occupancies shall comply with applicable provisions of city
regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.76: BEQUEST OF HANGAR/TIE DOWN/LEASE:
Upon the death of a hangar tenant/tie down permittee/lessee, a hangar/tie down
permit/lease may be transferred to an heir by inheritance of the aircraft.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.77: USE OF HANGAR/TIE DOWN:
No tenant/permittee/lessee may sublease, subrent, his hangar/tie down permit/
lease to another person for storage, charter, rental or otherwise without
notifying the airport manager/airport operations supervisor and according to
standard procedure set forth. The use of hangar/tie down by an aircraft other
than the tenant/permittee/lessee must be approved by the airport manager/
airport operations supervisor.
A tenant/lessee may sublet a portion of his hangar to a second owner whose
aircraft will safely fit in the available space. In such an instance, the
second occupant of the space is subject to the same rules and regulations as if
they were a primary tenant/lessee. The subtenant/lessee is not the primary
tenant/lessee under any circumstance and must comply with all applicable
provisions of city regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.80: PAYMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Payment Schedule:
      1.   All city owned hangar agreements/tie down permits will be on a
monthly basis with an option to renew.
      2.   All private hangar land leases will be billed as per the lease
agreement.
      3.   Rental agreements/permits will be prorated to the nearest week upon
initial occupancy, but not prorated upon termination of occupancy.
   B.   Delinquent Accounts: Rules and regulations prescribing penalties and
procedures relating to delinquent accounts of the airport are as follows:
For the purpose of these rules and regulations every airport tenant, permit
account, lease shall become due and payable on the first day of the calendar
month during which the agreement, permit or instrument of tenancy became
effective. It shall remain due and owing to the city together with all
penalties thereon as herein prescribed, until paid in full, unless otherwise
expressly provided by terms of such agreement, permit, or lease.
      1.   For the purpose of these rules and regulations, all such accounts
shall be classified as delinquent when not paid in full by the tenth of the
calendar month in which said accounts shall become due, unless otherwise
expressly provided by the agreement.
      2.   Tenant, permit accounts, leases delinquent for thirty (30) days, or
on the tenth day of the month succeeding the date the account initially became
due, will be subject to the following procedure:
         a.   A penalty of ten percent (10%) of the sum will be added to the
original amount due.
         b.   A due bill will be prepared clearly setting forth the sum and the
basic amount. The bill will designate the amount of the penalty, and will be
sent to the delinquent party by registered mail accompanied by a letter of
termination of tenancy/lease; said termination to be effective on the forty
fifth day of delinquency, which will be fifty five (55) days succeeding the
date the account first became due.
      3.   Upon termination of any agreement, by the foregoing procedure, the
former tenant/permittee/lessee shall at once relinquish and vacate any and all
premises of the airport and shall return any and all lands, building or
properties if owned by the city to the control of the city, and the tenant/
permittee/lessee shall have no further right, title, estate or interest in said
airport.
      4.   The provisions of these rules and regulations, when carried to
termination, shall in no way mitigate, modify or cancel any tenant/permittee/
lessee indebtedness to the city and any delinquent account shall be subject to
any and all methods of collection determined appropriate by the city.
      5.   Reinstatement of an agreement/permit/lease terminated by the
forgoing procedure may be accomplished only by complete payment of any and all
indebtedness, including penalties, and by instituting a successful request for
such consideration by the airport manager. Reinstatement action described
herein shall be subject to an administrative charge payable by said applicant
in advance.
      6.   The provisions of these rules shall be deemed a part of each and
every agreement or permit now in effect and heretofore issued to any tenant or
permittee of any portion of the airport, or which may be hereafter issued to
any party. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-6.85: NOTICE OF INFRACTION:
The tenant will be given a notice of infraction if he violates the provisions
of these rules or other applicable rules, ordinances, resolutions or
regulations. Within thirty (30) days the tenant may exercise the appeal process
in article XIII of this chapter unless superseded by a current and valid lease
agreement. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE VII. FIXED BASE OPERATORS
SECTION:
4-7.05: General
4-7.10: Classification
4-7.20: City Representation
4-7.25: Lease Transference
4-7.30: Incidental Storage
4-7.35: Vehicle Storage
4-7.40: Outside Parking
4-7.45: Engine Run
4-7.50: Additional Occupancy
4-7.55: Hangar Inspection
4-7.60: Fire And Safety
4-7.65: Bequest Of Lease
4-7.70: Payment Terms And Conditions
4-7.75: Notice Of Infraction
4-7.05: GENERAL:
This article applies to any person or entity who provides aviation support
services to the flying public. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.10: CLASSIFICATION:
Fixed base operator (FBO) means any person who rents, leases or owns facilities
located in an area designated for FBOs at the Porterville municipal airport,
who, by virtue of his specific type of aviation (or aviation related) activity,
requires the occupancy of a site with contiguous aircraft apron and direct
access to the aircraft operation area, and who engages in a business activity
providing aviation sales or services, including, but not limited to, any of the
following:
   A.   Selling and/or servicing new and used aircraft and component parts.
   B.   Aircraft maintenance and repairs.
   C.   Sales and/or repair of avionics.
   D.   Aviation training (including ground or flight instruction).
   E.   Aerial photography.
   F.   Air ambulance service.
   G.   Aircraft agricultural operations (crop dusting, spraying, or the
application of seed, fertilizers, pesticides, defoliants, etc.).
   H.   Aircraft rental, charter, and leasing.
   I.   Hangar rentals in support of FBOs. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.20: CITY REPRESENTATION:
No employee or representative of any FBO or lessee shall be authorized or
assumed to be authorized to act as an agent for or on behalf of the city in
matters of airport operation or policy. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.25: LEASE TRANSFERENCE:
Lessee shall not sublet the premises, or any part thereof or assign, transfer,
mortgage, or otherwise convey this agreement without the prior written consent
of the city. Any consent by the city to any sublease, assignment, transfer,
mortgage, or conveyance shall not be deemed or constructed as a consent to any
other different or subsequent sublease, assignment, transfer, mortgage, or
conveyance. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.30: INCIDENTAL STORAGE:
Storage of items, in addition to aircraft storage, within the hangar shall
conform to all local fire and safety codes and the provisions of these
regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.35: VEHICLE STORAGE:
Vehicles belonging to the hangar or aircraft owner and guests may be stored in
the hangar for short durations of time. The storage of any motor vehicle within
a hangar shall conform to applicable fire and safety codes. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-
20-2004)
4-7.40: OUTSIDE PARKING:
No vehicle shall be parked or left unattended in any aircraft operating area or
in a manner which limits aircraft operation. Vehicles may be stopped in such
areas for short periods of time so long as the owner is readily available to
move the vehicles should the needs of aircraft traffic so dictate. (Ord. 1652 §
B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.45: ENGINE RUN:
No aircraft engine shall be run while inside any hangar. Aircraft shall be
moved from the hangar to a safe position as provided in section
 4-3.05 of this chapter for run up, or at least outside of the hangar for low
power engine runs. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.50: ADDITIONAL OCCUPANCY:
No residential occupancy or use shall be allowed in an aircraft storage hangar
or elsewhere on the airport unless specifically authorized by city. (Ord. 1652
§ B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.55: HANGAR INSPECTION:
City may inspect each hangar annually, and more often if deemed necessary to
determine compliance. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.60: FIRE AND SAFETY:
All occupants of aircraft hangars shall comply with this article, as well as
all principles of fire safety. All persons shall exercise the utmost care to
guard against any threat of fire or injury to persons and property on the
airport. All occupancies shall comply with applicable provisions of city
regulations. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.65: BEQUEST OF LEASE:
With the death of a lessee, a lease may be transferred to an heir by
inheritance of the aircraft. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.70: PAYMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Delinquent Accounts: Rules and regulations prescribing penalties and
procedures relating to delinquent accounts of the airport are as follows:
For the purpose of these rules and regulations every airport lease shall become
due and payable on the first day of the calendar month during which the
agreement became effective. It shall remain due and owing to the city together
with all penalties thereon as herein prescribed, until paid in full, unless
otherwise expressly provided by terms of such lease.
      1.   For the purpose of these rules and regulations, all such accounts
shall be classified as delinquent when not paid in full by the tenth of the
calendar month in which said accounts shall become due, unless otherwise
expressly provided by the agreement.
      2.   Leases delinquent for thirty (30) days, or on the tenth day of the
month succeeding the date of the account initially became due, will be subject
to the following procedure:
         a.   A penalty of ten percent (10%) of the sum will be added to the
original amount due.
         b.   A due bill will be prepared clearly setting forth the sum and the
basic amount. The bill will designate the amount of the penalty, and will be
sent to the delinquent party by registered mail accompanied by a letter of
termination of lease; said termination to be effective on the forty fifth day
of delinquency, which will be fifty five (55) days succeeding the date the
account first became due.
      3.   Upon termination of any agreement, by the foregoing procedure, the
former lessee shall at once relinquish and vacate any and all premises of the
airport and shall return any and all lands, building or properties if owned by
the city to the control of the city, and the lessee shall have no further
right, title, estate or interest in said airport. Personal property shall be
removed upon termination of the lease. Hangar(s) will be removed within ninety
(90) days during which the hangar owner will be responsible for the lease
payment.
      4.   The provisions of these rules and regulations, when carried to
termination, shall in no way mitigate, modify or cancel any lessee indebtedness
to the city and any delinquent account shall be subject to any and all methods
of collection determined appropriate by the city.
      5.   Reinstatement of a lease terminated by the foregoing procedure may
be accomplished only by complete payment of any and all indebtedness, including
penalties, and by instituting a successful request for such consideration by
the airport manager. Reinstatement action described herein shall be subject to
an administrative charge payable by said applicant in advance.
      6.   The provisions of these rules shall be deemed a part of each and
every agreement or permit now in effect and heretofore issued to any lessee of
any portion of the airport, or which may be hereafter issued to any party.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-7.75: NOTICE OF INFRACTION:
The lessee will be given a notice of infraction if he violates the provisions
of these rules or other applicable rules, ordinances, resolutions or
regulations. Within thirty (30) days the lessee may exercise the appeal process
in article XIII of this chapter. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE VIII. EMERGENCY
SECTION:
4-8.05: General
4-8.10: Notification
4-8.15: Response Activation
4-8.25: Right Of Way
4-8.30: Emergency Vehicle Right Of Way
4-8.35: Speed Waiver
4-8.40: Authorized Personnel
4-8.45: Incident Command
4-8.50: Airport Personnel
4-8.55: Aircraft Accident
4-8.60: Automatic Closure
4-8.65: Removal Of Aircraft
4-8.70: Scene Preservation
4-8.75: Owner Responsibility
4-8.80: City Responsibility
4-8.85: City Indemnity
4-8.90: Aircraft Storage
4-8.95: Special Handling
4-8.96: Airport Closure
4-8.05: GENERAL:
This article provides for the authority and designated responsibilities of
individuals and agencies in the event of an airport emergency. Such emergencies
would include fires of any type, aircraft emergencies or accident, or incident
of personal injury. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.10: NOTIFICATION:
It shall be the responsibility of any person or airport tenant who observes or
has knowledge of any type of airport emergency which has not, to their
knowledge, been reported, to initiate a report as specified. Said report shall
be accomplished by dialing 9-1-1 from any airport telephone or otherwise
contacting the city police/fire department. The person shall then give the
dispatcher all information which he has available. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.15: RESPONSE ACTIVATION:
Upon receipt of notification of an airport emergency, the police/fire
dispatcher shall activate the fire department and/or police department. (Ord.
1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.25: RIGHT OF WAY:
All persons not responding to an airport emergency shall yield the right of way
to emergency service personnel. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.30: EMERGENCY VEHICLE RIGHT OF WAY:
Emergency service vehicles displaying proper red lights and other required
markings shall have the right of way on all taxiways. When responding to an
aircraft incident, all aircraft and other vehicles shall yield to said
equipment. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.35: SPEED WAIVER:
The airport speed limit requirements are waived for all emergency vehicles and
authorized personnel responding to an airport emergency. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-
2004)
4-8.40: AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL:
Upon the arrival of the fire department and/or police department to an airport
emergency, all other persons, including aircraft owners, operators, and
interested parties shall remain clear of the area until the designated incident
commander has determined that the accident scene is stabilized and safe for
entry by airport personnel. The airport manager/airport operations supervisor
shall then designate only those essential persons authorized to enter the
accident scene. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.45: INCIDENT COMMAND:
Immediately upon arrival at any airport emergency, the affected area shall come
under the full control of the fire department and the designated incident
commander. The incident commander shall control all access to and from the
site, as well as all rescue, stabilization, and suppression efforts. (Ord. 1652
§ B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.50: AIRPORT PERSONNEL:
It shall be the duty of the airport manager/airport operations supervisor to
coordinate or even curtail any and all airport operations which may be in
conflict with or endangered by an emergency situation. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-
2004)
4-8.55: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENT:
Aircraft accident scenes, as defined by FAR, fall within the jurisdiction of
the FAA and its associated investigating bodies. All persons on or near a crash
scene shall preserve any and all aircraft pieces, parts, papers, and other
pertinent data and document their positions and content as additional aid to
the appropriate investigating authority. Only those persons authorized by the
incident commander or the airport manager/airport operations supervisor shall
be on the accident scene or within two thousand feet (2,000') thereof. (Ord.
1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.60: AUTOMATIC CLOSURE:
Any runway, taxiway, or other operating area of the airport which becomes the
scene of an aircraft accident shall immediately be considered closed and
unusable until determined otherwise by the airport manager/airport operations
supervisor. The airport manager/airport operations supervisor shall provide for
proper notification of closures and the coordination of air traffic so long as
the closure remains in effect. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.65: REMOVAL OF AIRCRAFT:
No aircraft or parts thereof shall be removed from an accident scene until such
removal has been authorized by the appropriate FAA/NTSB representative. Airport
management may assist in securing proper removal authority; however, it shall
be the ultimate responsibility of the aircraft owner to acquire the proper
authorizations for removal, as specified by federal regulation. (Ord. 1652 § B,
4-20-2004)
4-8.70: SCENE PRESERVATION:
In the event an accident scene must be preserved for a prolonged period of
time, the airport manager shall provide for adequate protection as may be
necessary for such preservation. The charges for any such protection shall be
borne by the aircraft owner. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.75: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
Any aircraft involved in an accident or incident on the airport shall bear the
responsibility of the registered owner for its prompt and proper removal from
the accident site. Said removal shall be accomplished only after proper
authorization has been received as specified in section
 4-8.65 of this article. The owner may engage local services at his option.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.80: CITY RESPONSIBILITY:
In the case where an owner is unable to remove a disabled aircraft from an
airport operating area, the airport manager/airport operations supervisor may
at his discretion remove, or authorize the removal of said aircraft to the
appropriate storage area. The charges for such removal shall be borne by the
aircraft owner. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.85: CITY INDEMNITY:
In the event that airport management removes said aircraft or parts thereof
from an accident site in order to facilitate airport operations, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, all tenants and persons shall indemnify, defend and
hold harmless airport management, its agents and employees from and against all
claims, damages, losses and expenses attributed to bodily injury, sickness,
disease or death, or injury to or destruction of tangible property including
the loss of use resulting therefrom, regardless of whether or not it is caused
in part by a party indemnified hereunder, and including, but not limited to,
attorney fees, arising out of, resulting from, or in any manner related to any
work performed or services provided in the course of such a removal. Said
removal shall be done only after the proper authorization has been obtained
from the FAA, and only if it is determined to be necessary to assist airport
operation, or to protect the safety of the general public and users of the
airport. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.90: AIRCRAFT STORAGE:
Any aircraft involved in an accident or incident which is rendered disabled or
unairworthy shall be parked or stored in an area designated by the airport
manager/airport operations supervisor. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.95: SPECIAL HANDLING:
The registered owner of any aircraft which requires special handling, parking
or storage as a result of an accident, shall be responsible for any and all
charges incurred as a result of such storage. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-8.96: AIRPORT CLOSURE:
The airport manager/airport operations supervisor is hereby directed and
authorized to close the airport, or portions thereof, or suspend operations
related to the landing, takeoff, or taxiing of aircraft during any period in
which he/she determines that such operations, or their continuance, would be
hazardous. Causes for such closure could include, but would not be limited to,
runway maintenance or repairs, runway obstacles, fire, aircraft or other
accident. Any such closure shall be effective only during such time as there is
placed at each end of each runway so closed, a letter "X", the arms of which
are at least sixty feet (60') long and twenty feet (20') wide, and so colored
as to contrast with the background or other surface. The airport manager/
airport operations supervisor shall immediately notify the Rancho Murrieta
flight service station and issue a notice to airmen (NOTAM), advising of the
closure. Phone 1-800-992-7433. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE IX. FUELING AND SALES
SECTION:
4-9.05: Aircraft Fueling And Defueling
4-9.10: Fuel Sales
4-9.05: AIRCRAFT FUELING AND DEFUELING:
All fueling operations conducted at the Porterville airport shall be in
compliance with city regulations and the uniform fire code.
   A.   No aircraft shall be fueled or defueled while the aircraft engine is
running or while the aircraft is in a hangar or other enclosed space.
   B.   No smoking shall be permitted within fifty feet (50') of the aircraft
or fuel truck while the aircraft is being fueled or defueled.
   C.   During fuel handling, no passenger shall be permitted in or on the
aircraft.
   D.   All hoses, funnels and apparatus used in fueling or defueling
activities shall be equipped properly with a grounding device to prevent
possible static ignition of volatile liquids. Such grounding devices shall be
used during all fueling and defueling activities.
   E.   During fueling handling activities, no person shall operate any radio
transmitter or receiver, nor switch electrical appliances on or off in such
aircraft, or in the immediate vicinity (50 feet) thereof.
   F.   Every person engaged in aircraft fuel handling shall exercise due care
to prevent the overflow or spilling of fuel.
   G.   Any fuel spills in excess of forty four (44) gallons shall be reported
to the airport manager/airport operations supervisor. All fuel spills shall be
cleaned up immediately, following guidelines as set forth by the EPA.
   H.   During fuel handling, no person shall use any material or device which
is likely to cause a static spark within fifty feet (50') of such aircraft or
fuel truck.
   I.   Where there has been a fuel spill or leak, no person shall start the
engine of any aircraft in close proximity until the spill or leak has been
stopped and cleaned up. In the event of such spills or leaks, the fire
department shall be notified.
   J.   All fueling equipment including, but not limited to, pumps and hoses
shall be maintained in a safe and sound, nonleaking condition.
   K.   Prior to fuel transfer to storage tanks, the fuel dealer and dispensary
shall conduct tests as to fuel type and signs of contamination. Furthermore, in
accordance with environmental laws, the fuel dispensary or authorized agent
shall conduct daily inventory reconciliation in order to assess fuel loss. A
reconciliation log shall be maintained daily. Any fuel loss due to apparent
leakage or any other reason shall be reported to the airport manager/airport
operations supervisor. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-9.10: FUEL SALES:
No person shall deliver aviation fuels or lubricants to, or dispense such fuel
from, at, or upon the airport without written approval from the city council.
For the right, privilege and concession of making deliveries of all types of
aviation fuels and lubricants, and other fuels, to any person or location at or
upon the airport, or to a bulk storage plant of an oil company on the airport,
there is levied against such individual or firm a gallonage charge, which will
be established by resolution of the city council, for each gallon so delivered.
No fuel shall be stored anywhere on the airport except in tanks as may be
approved by the fire department. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE X. INSURANCE
SECTION:
4-10.05: Liability
4-10.10: Routine Maintenance
4-10.15: City Liability
4-10.05: LIABILITY:
The privileges of using the airport and its facilities shall be conditioned
upon the assumption of full responsibility and risk by the user thereof. To the
fullest extent permitted by law the city, its agents, and/or employees shall
not be liable for claims, damages, losses and expenses including, but not
limited to, attorney fees arising out of, resulting from or in any manner
related to loss, incident or mishap of any nature whatsoever, and/or from any
cause whatsoever to individual, aircraft or property, which occurs at the
airport. Such indemnification shall include loss or expense attributable to
bodily injury, sickness, death or disease or any injury to or destruction of
tangible property including the loss of use resulting therefrom regardless of
whether or not it is caused in part by a party indemnified hereunder.
No person, firm or corporation shall maintain a local based aircraft at the
airport unless such proprietor has filed with the airport manager/airport
operations supervisor, and kept in current effect, a certificate of public
liability insurance with the coverage set by the risk manager of the city of
Porterville. This article shall apply to all airport users.
In order to protect the city, its agents, officers, and employees against all
claims and liability for death, injury, loss, and damage as a result of use and
operations on the airport, lessee shall name the city as additional insured on
the aircraft insurance policy or policies. Such insurance for additional
insured shall apply as primary insurance and any other insurance maintained by
airport management shall be excess.
Provided coverage shall not be suspended, voided, canceled, reduced in coverage
or otherwise materially changed except after thirty (30) days' prior written
notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, has been provided to
airport management. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-10.10: ROUTINE MAINTENANCE:
The city conducts routine maintenance and contracts for special events,
construction and various airport improvement projects with certain equipment
and machinery and because of these ongoing occurrences cannot fully protect
aircraft or person using the airport facility from damage or injury to persons
and/or property arising from dust, debris, vehicle equipment operation or the
related condition of the facility. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-10.15: CITY LIABILITY:
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the tenant and other persons on
premises shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city, its agents and
employees from and against all claims, demands, damages, debts, liabilities,
obligations, costs, expenses, liens and actions or causes of actions of any
kind whatsoever resulting from the activities including, but not limited to,
foreign object damage, collision, equipment or vehicles, closure of gates,
access, runway or ramp facilities or any other circumstances whatsoever.
Tenant's indemnification to defend and hold harmless relative to city, its
agents and employees, shall extend as well to attorney fees arising out of or
resulting from any incident which occurs on the premises. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-
2004)
ARTICLE XI. ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
4-11.05: Runway
4-11.10: Safety
4-11.15: Stunts
4-11.20: Business Permits
4-11.25: Disorderly Conduct
4-11.30: Intoxicating Liquors/Illicit Drug Use
4-11.35: Model And Radio Controlled Aircraft
4-11.05: RUNWAY:
No person shall land, take off, taxi, or otherwise operate any aircraft on, at,
or from, the Porterville municipal airport when he/she knows such aircraft is
not operating properly, or is equipped with any part or safety device which is
defective or unsafe. Deviations from this restriction shall only be permitted
by the issuance of a ferry permit by the FAA. Nor shall any aircraft be
operated on or at the airport, or on any runway thereof, when the airport or
runway has been closed to traffic by the airport manager/airport operations
supervisor or other legal authority, and such closure has been indicated by the
placement of an "X" at each end of the closed runway. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-
2004)
4-11.10: SAFETY:
No person shall operate any aircraft (or vehicle) on, at, or in the vicinity of
the Porterville municipal airport in wilful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property, whether his own or that of others. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-
20-2004)
4-11.15: STUNTS:
No person shall engage in the performance of any aerobatics, stunt, maneuver
not necessary to a normal takeoff, landing, normal turn or level flight of the
aircraft over or within one mile of the exterior boundaries of the airport,
except for FAA approved airshows. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-11.20: BUSINESS PERMITS:
No person shall engage in the sale of any goods, wares, merchandise, or
services at or upon the airport without first having complied with chapter 15,
"Licenses And Business Regulations", of this code. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-11.25: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
No person shall commit any disorderly, obscene, indecent or unlawful act or
commit any nuisance on the airport. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-11.30: INTOXICATING LIQUORS/ILLICIT DRUG USE:
No person shall drink any intoxicating liquors upon any portion of the airport
open to the public, except in a restaurant or other place designated and
licensed for on-sale liquor dispensing, or in an area protected by the right to
privacy.
No person shall become intoxicated or use habit forming and/or illicit drugs on
any portion of the airport nor shall any person under the influence enter upon
or loiter on or about the airport property. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-11.35: MODEL AND RADIO CONTROLLED AIRCRAFT:
No model or radio controlled aircraft will be allowed on or above Porterville
municipal airport property nor on any city property adjacent to the Porterville
municipal airport nor any property within the city of Porterville that is under
or near the pattern for aircraft or air vehicles at the Porterville municipal
airport. (Ord. 1755, 6-2-2009)
ARTICLE XII. SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
4-12.00: Permit Required
4-12.05: Application
4-12.10: Evaluation
4-12.15: Liability Exposure
4-12.20: Liability Insurance
4-12.25: Crowd Control/Operations
4-12.00: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person or organization shall hold or cause to be held any community civic
event utilizing airport facilities, involving the assembly of more than ten
(10) aircraft and/or thirty (30) people, outside of normal prescribed airport
operations, without first obtaining a community civic event permit from the
city. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-12.05: APPLICATION:
An applicant for a community civic event shall submit an application to the
city council. Such application shall include the name and address of the
sponsoring organization, those principal persons involved, the scope and extent
of the proposed event, and the number of persons and/or aircraft anticipated to
attend. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-12.10: EVALUATION:
Applications for a community civic event shall be evaluated on the basis of
relative merit, compatibility with airport operations, anticipated benefit to
the airport, the public, and the city of Porterville, and the compatibility
with allowed uses for city and airport property. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-12.15: LIABILITY EXPOSURE:
No application for an airport special events permit shall be approved which
unduly creates additional hazard or liability exposure to the public, the
airport, or the city of Porterville. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-12.20: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Each applicant for an airport special events permit shall provide adequate
liability insurance in a form and by an underwriter approved by the state of
California, to those minimum limits as specified by the city. Said insurance
shall include coverage for liability and property damage, and insurance against
liability for personal injury including accidental death, as well as liability
for property damage which may arise in any way during the term of the permit.
Such insurance shall remain in effect during that period of time of the event
as specified in the special events permit. Each policy covering the special
event on the airport shall name the city of Porterville as an additional
primary insured without offset to the city's own liability insurance. (Ord.
1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-12.25: CROWD CONTROL/OPERATIONS:
   A.   Each applicant for an airport special events permit who proposes to
involve more than thirty (30) persons outside of normal airport operations for
said event shall submit a crowd control/operations plan to the airport manager/
airport operations supervisor for review and approval. Such plan shall include,
but not be limited to, provisions for the following as pertains to the proposed
event:
      1.   Vehicle parking.
      2.   Transient (spectator) aircraft parking.
      3.   Participant aircraft parking.
      4.   Static display area.
      5.   Spectator area.
      6.   Crowd line.
      7.   Participant aircraft pattern and limitations.
      8.   Concession areas.
      9.   Public accommodations (restrooms, first aid, etc.).
      10.   Tactical communications.
      11.   Additional aircraft communications.
      12.   Ground handling of aircraft and vehicles.
      13.   Personnel training and coordination.
      14.   Public address and communication.
   B.   The airport manager/airport operations supervisor may waive, approve,
or require additional information or provision for any of the elements above,
based upon the scope of the proposed event. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE XIII. APPEALS PROCESS
SECTION:
4-13.05: Violations Of Regulations
4-13.05: VIOLATIONS OF REGULATIONS:
Violations of the regulations contained herein and administered by the airport
manager/airport operations supervisor may result in a notice of violation or an
order to cease. Any notice or order so levied may be appealed.
   A.   The person receiving the notice of violation or order to cease may
appeal, in writing, within ten (10) working days to the airport manager/airport
operations supervisor.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the receipt of the appeal by the airport
manager/airport operations supervisor the time and place for a meeting will be
set to be held within thirty (30) days. Further actions by the airport manager/
airport operations supervisor will be stayed (where the violation is not a
hazard) pending the meeting. The person requesting the appeal shall have the
right of the presence of any supporting person he chooses at the meeting. The
decision reached shall be binding, subject to appeal.
   C.   If the party does not agree with the decision from the meeting, he may
appeal to the city council for final determination. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE XIV. SEVERABILITY
SECTION:
4-14.05: Severability
4-14.05: SEVERABILITY:
Should any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter be held invalid or unconstitutional for any reasons, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter. The city council
hereby declares that it would have adopted this chapter and each article,
section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase, regardless of the fact that
any one or more articles, sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases
be declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE XV. APPENDIX A, TRAFFIC PATTERN
SECTION:
4-15.05: Porterville Municipal Airport, Runway 30
4-15.10: Porterville Municipal Airport, Runway 12
4-15.05: PORTERVILLE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT. RUNWAY 30:
   A.   Enter pattern in level flight, abeam midpoint of runway, at pattern
altitude. Light aircraft with pattern speed under one hundred twenty five (125)
knots use inner pattern at altitude of one thousand feet (1,000') AGL (above
ground level = 1,444 feet indicated altitude).
   B.   Maintain pattern altitude until abeam approach end of landing runway,
on downwind leg.
   C.   Complete turn to final at least one-fourth (1/4) mile from end of
runway.
   D.   Continue straight ahead until beyond departure end of runway.
   E.   If remaining in traffic pattern, commence turn to crosswind leg two
thousand feet (2,000') beyond the departure end of the runway at the designated
marker, at pattern altitude.
   F.   If departing traffic pattern, continue straight out, or exit with a
forty five degree (45°) left turn beyond the departure end of the runway, after
reaching pattern altitude.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3648.png]
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
4-15.10: PORTERVILLE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT, RUNWAY 12:
   A.   Enter pattern in level flight, abeam midpoint of runway, at pattern
altitude. Light aircraft with pattern speed under one hundred twenty five (125)
knots, use inner pattern at altitude of one thousand feet (1,000') AGL (above
ground level = 1,444 feet indicated altitude).
   B.   Maintain pattern altitude until abeam approach end of landing runway,
on downwind leg.
   C.   Complete turn to final at least one-fourth (1/4) mile from end of
runway.
   D.   Continue straight ahead until beyond departure end of runway.
   E.   If remaining in traffic pattern, commence turn to crosswind leg two
thousand feet (2,000') beyond the departure end of the runway at the designated
marker, at pattern altitude.
   F.   If departing traffic pattern, continue straight out, or exit with a
forty five degree (45°) left turn beyond the departure end of the runway, after
reaching pattern altitude.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3650.png]
 
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
ARTICLE XVI. FORMS
SECTION:
4-16.05: Municipal Airport Forms
4-16.05: MUNICIPAL AIRPORT FORMS:
   City Of Porterville
   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
   General Information Form
Name/Company Name:                    
Address:                    
Phone Number:                    
Emergency Contact:                    
Phone Number:                    
Brief Description Of Airport Business:                    
                   
                   
Insurance Co.:                    
Description Of Aircraft:                    
Hangar Lease Lot Number:                    
   PORTERVILLE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
   AIRCRAFT PARKING AND TIE-DOWN AGREEMENT
   (MONTHLY BASIS)
   NAME                    
   ADDRESS                    
   AIRCRAFT REGISTRATION NUMBER                    
   OWNER OF AIRCRAFT IF OTHER THAN ABOVE                    
   AIRCRAFT DESCRIPTION:   COLOR               NO. OF ENGINES
                   
   MANUFACTURER                      MODEL                    
      YEAR                GROSS WEIGHT                    
   INSURANCE POLICY                    
The Undersigned:
      1.      Understands this agreement extends the right to park and/or tie-
down one aircraft in a designated space at the Porterville Municipal Airport
and conveys no other right or interest.
      2.      Agrees to pay monthly parking and tie-down fees as specified in
this agreement.
      3.      Understands that the monthly fees are $           for single
engine aircraft and $           for twin engine aircraft at the time of the
signing of this agreement and that the City Council of the City of Porterville
may, at any time, adjust the fees at their discretion.
      4.      Understands that he/she will be billed each month in advance for
parking/tie-down fees and that all fees unpaid after one month of the billing
date will be charged interest at a rate of one percent (1%) per month on any
unpaid balance.
      5.      Agrees to comply with all codes, ordinances and rules of
operation applicable to Porterville Municipal Airport.
      6.      Agrees to indemnify, defend and save harmless the City, its
agents, officers, and employees, and each of them, from any and all losses,
costs, expenses, claims, liabilities, actions, or damages, including liability
for injuries to person or persons, or damage to property of third persons,
arising out of or in any way connected with the above described aircraft.
      7.      Agrees, in the event the City has to resort to legal action to
enforce payment under this agreement, to pay all court costs including
reasonable attorney fees, of such action.
      8.      Agrees that the fees due under this agreement shall be due on the
           day of                ,           and the first of each calendar
month thereafter.
   AIRCRAFT OWNER/AGENT:                    
   SIGNATURE                              
   DATE                    
   APPROVED FOR PORTERVILLE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT:                    
   SIGNATURE                                  TITLE
                                                
   DATE                    
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION
   CITY OF PORTERVILLE - MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
Name                    
Address                    
Phone ( )
VIOLATION
Your actions have been found to conflict with Article            of the Rules
and Regulations for the Porterville Municipal Airport. You are hereby formally
ordered to cease any and all actions conflicting with the established Rules and
Regulations.
Airport users who feel they have a compelling, legitimate reason to dispute a
violation notice or a notice to cease may follow the Appeals Procedure set
forth in Article XIII of the Rules and Regulations for the Porterville
Municipal Airport.
Noncompliance with an official NOTICE OF VIOLATION may result in termination of
lease agreement or the loss of Airport privileges.
                   
Signed   Date
                   
Designated City Officer   Date
   City of Porterville
   REPORT OF AIRCRAFT ACCIDENT
      1.   DATE OF ACCIDENT                      TIME             A.M. P.M.
            (Month)    (Date)
      2.   Location of Accident
                   
                   
      3.   Operator (Pilot)
                   
(Name)   (Telephone Number)
                   
(Number and Street, Apartment No., etc.)
                   
(City, State, Zip Code)
      4.   Owner (if different)
                   
(Name)   (Telephone Number)
                   
(Number and Street, Apartment No., etc.)
                   
(City, State, Zip Code)
      5.   Type of Aircraft
                   
(Manufacturer)   (Model)   (Identification No.)
      6.   Total Number of Persons on Board Aircraft                    
      7.   (Name, Address, Extent of Injuries to Occupants and/or Persons on
the ground. Use additional sheets if number exceeds space.)
 
 Crew Passenger Non- Occupant Fatal Serious Minor None
 
      8.   Damage to Property (Other than that of Owner, Operator or Passenger,
or in their care, custody or control). Describe fully, and give best estimate
of dollar cost. Use additional sheets if necessary.
      9.   Was a Report made to Any of the Following Agencies:
 
Federal Aviation Administration       Yes  No
National Transportation Safety Board  Yes  No
Law Enforcement Agency                Yes  No
If such a report was made, to whom and at what address:
                   
                   
      10.   Was there, at the time of the accident, an Aircraft Liability
Policy?
 
         Yes  No
or Bond?  Yes  No
or any other form of Liability Protections covering the aircraft operation?
 
  Yes  No
or have you registered with the Department of Aeronautics as a Self-Insurer?
 
  Yes  No
 
      11.   If answer to 10 was Yes, furnish the following data on Insurer or
Bonding firm which issued your Policy or Bond to cover liability for damages or
injury to others:
Complete name and address of Company
                                                                        
                                                                        
Policy Number               Period of Coverage                             
      (from) (to)
Policy issued to                                               
               (named individual or firm)
      12.   Report made by (print)                                           
               (Name)
                                                       
               (Number and Street)
                                                       
               (City, State, Zip Code)
                                                       
               (Telephone Number)
                                        
      (Signature)
   REMARKS or Additional Information:
Pilot Certificate Number
                              
Ratings                 Total Flying Time                     
Weather/Visibility Conditions at time of accident:
                                                              
 
Official Capacity, or relationship to the Operator or Owner
 
                                                                                    
 
                                                                                    
 
                                                                                    
 
                                                                                    
 
                                                                                    
 
 
   CITY OF PORTERVILLE
   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
After-Hours   Tie-Down   Fees
Name
                   
Address
                   
                   
                   
Phone Number ( )
Description of Aircraft
Manufacturer                         
Model/Year                         
No. of Engines                         
Aircraft Number                          
Overnight Tie-Down Fees:
   $2/night (single engine)
   $2.50/night (twin engine)
   I agree to comply with all codes, ordinances and rules of operation
applicable to Porterville Municipal Airport.
   I agree not to hold the City and its employees liable for any losses, costs,
expenses, claims, liabilities, actions, or damages in any way connected with
the above described aircraft.
(Ord. 1652 § B, 4-20-2004)
CHAPTER 4A
AMBULANCES
SECTION:
4A-1: Ambulance Operation Within City Limits
4A-2: Certificate Of Public Convenience For Ambulance Required
4A-3: Application For Certificate
4A-5: Investigation
4A-6: Notice Of Decision
4A-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of Certificate
4A-9: Disposition And Issuance Of Certificate After Revocation
4A-11: Surrender Of Certificate
4A-14: Liability Insurance
4A-15: Ambulance Rates
4A-16: Ambulance And Records Inspection
4A-16.1: Ambulance Call Rotation
4A-17: Complaint Procedure
4A-18: Violation And Penalties
4A-1: AMBULANCE OPERATION WITHIN CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Ambulance operation in the city applies only to those ambulance
companies who routinely do business within the city, except those ambulance
companies who deliver patients to their homes or medical facilities within the
city from points outside the city.
   B.   This chapter does not pertain to those ambulance services who may be
called to assist with transportation from medical facilities in emergency
situations. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-2: CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE FOR AMBULANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of operating an ambulance or
ambulances for profit on a for hire basis within the city without first
obtaining a certificate of public convenience, as hereinafter provided, from
the fire chief, and this certificate shall be in addition to any business
license required by this code. This chapter shall not apply in the event of a
"disaster" as defined by section
9-2 of this code.
   B.   A certificate of public convenience is not needed when an ambulance
company licensed by the state is contracted to handle special events only. A
"special event" is defined as a sporting event, entertainment event or any
other activity where an ambulance may be needed. This chapter does not waive
the necessity of any ambulance company handling special events within the city
from obtaining a city business license. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
Any person desiring to obtain a certificate of public convenience shall make
application therefor on forms available from the office of the fire chief. Each
application shall be accompanied by a policy of insurance in the amount
provided for by this chapter. The application shall include the following:
   A.   A copy of the ambulance license issued by the California highway
patrol.
   B.   The number of ambulances actually owned and/or leased, and the number
of ambulances actually operated by such applicant on the date of application,
if any.
   C.   A description of each ambulance, including the make, model, year of
manufacture, engine and serial numbers, state motor vehicle license number, and
the number of the emergency vehicle permit issued by the California highway
patrol.
   D.   The business address and a description of the premises at and from
which it is proposed to maintain such ambulances.
   E.   A description of the proposed color scheme, insignia, trade style and
any other distinguishing characteristics of the proposed ambulance design.
   F.   Submittal of two (2) colored photographs of each ambulance in operation
or additional ambulance henceforth, and that one colored photograph expose the
rear left of the ambulance and one expose the right front of the ambulance.
   G.   An application fee shall be submitted with each application. The
application fee shall be in addition to any business license fee which the
applicant shall be required to pay. The amount of said application fee shall be
fixed by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-5: INVESTIGATION:
Before any application is acted upon, the fire chief shall cause an
investigation to determine if the applicants, the drivers and the attendants
are properly licensed by the California highway patrol. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-
1996)
4A-6: NOTICE OF DECISION:
The fire chief shall give the applicant written notice of decision to grant or
deny a certificate of public convenience and shall state the reasons for the
decision within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   A certificate of public convenience may be revoked pursuant to
subsection B of this section on the following grounds:
      1.   The certificate holder, knowingly and after written notice from the
fire chief, fails to operate his business in accordance to the provisions of
this chapter and any and all state and federal laws applicable to the ambulance
business.
      2.   The ambulance license is suspended or revoked or disciplinary action
is taken against said license holder by the California highway patrol.
      3.   The certificate holder shall abandon its operation of the ambulance
business for a period of thirty (30) days.
Acts of God and other acts beyond the control of the certificate holder which
cause abandonment or limitation of service shall not be considered an
abandonment within the meaning of this chapter.
   B.   No suspension or revocation shall be made effective until a hearing has
been held by the fire chief, unless the fire chief finds there is a threat to
the general public by continued operation of such licensee, in which case
suspension shall be immediate. The certificate holder shall have not less than
ten (10) days' notice of the hearing by registered mail or personal service.
   C.   No person who has had their ambulance license revoked pursuant to this
chapter shall be eligible to reapply before the expiration of one year from the
date of revocation. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-9: DISPOSITION AND ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE AFTER REVOCATION:
Upon the conclusion of a hearing pursuant to subsection 4A-8B of this chapter,
the fire chief may, based upon his findings, terminate such suspension and
restore the certificate, or continue such suspension for a time so specified,
or in the alternative revoke such certificate. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-11: SURRENDER OF CERTIFICATE:
Whenever a certificate has been suspended or revoked, the owner of the
ambulance for which such certificate was issued shall forthwith surrender such
certificate to the fire chief, and the operation of such ambulance shall cease.
(Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-14: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
No certificate of public convenience shall be issued unless there is on file
with the city an insurance policy approved by the city's insurance carrier or
insurance administrator, whereby the owner and the driver of each of the
vehicles described in said certificate are insured against liability or damage
to property and for injury to or death of any person resulting from the
ownership, operation or other uses thereof. Said policy shall be in a sum of
not less than two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for personal
injury or death of any one person in any single accident and five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for personal injury or death of more than one
person in any single accident, and the limits on each such vehicle shall be not
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for damage to or
destruction of property in any single accident. The insurance policy shall
contain an endorsement providing that the city is named as an additional
insured party and that said policy of insurance will not be canceled until
notice in writing shall have been given to the city of Porterville, addressed
to the city clerk, 291 North Main Street, Porterville, CA 98257, at least
thirty (30) days prior to the cancellation becoming effective. The insurance
policy must be issued by a solvent and responsible company authorized to do
business in the state. Said policy shall further provide that there shall be a
continuing liability thereon, notwithstanding any recovery on said policy. If,
at any time, said insurance policy shall be canceled by the company issuing the
same, or the authority of said company to do business in the state shall be
revoked, the certificate holder shall replace said policy with another policy
approved as above prior to the expiration date of cancellation of said policy.
(Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-15: AMBULANCE RATES:
Any holder of a certificate of public convenience pursuant hereto shall, before
commencing service in the city, file with the fire chief and with the city
clerk a schedule of rates for ambulance services provided. Further, any change
in rates by any certificate holder shall not be effective until a period of
thirty (30) days after such notice had been filed. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-16: AMBULANCE AND RECORDS INSPECTION:
The fire chief or his authorized representative may inspect ambulances used for
emergency services under this chapter, the personnel records of the drivers and
attendants, and any records pertaining to the operation of ambulances,
including, but not limited to, preventative maintenance and records of calls.
(Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-16.1: AMBULANCE CALL ROTATION:
The fire chief or his authorized representative may assign the number of places
in the normal rotation of calls for ambulance service from the city's
communication service based upon the number of staffed ambulances maintained by
the ambulance company. This decision may be reviewed on a month to month basis
and, in making his decisions, the fire chief or his representative shall
consider any outages of service that are beyond an amount reasonable for
maintenance of the vehicles. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-17: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
Any person who is dissatisfied with or has a complaint with any ambulance
company holding a certificate should make that complaint known to the fire
chief, who shall notify the city council. (Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
4A-18: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute an infraction.
(Ord. 1537 § B17, 8-6-1996)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1.0: Definitions
5-1.1: Animal Control Unit
5-1.2: Records
5-1.3: Animal Shelter
5-1.4: Dog Parks
5-1.5: Impounding/Collection Of Animals
5-1.6: Right To Enter Premises
5-1.7: Interference With Duties
5-1.0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   ALTERED ANIMAL: Any animal that has been surgically altered (spayed/
neutered) or by means of written proof from a licensed veterinarian stating
that the animal does not possess the capability of reproduction.
   AT LARGE: Any animal that is off the premises of its owner and not under
restraint by leash or chain, or which is wandering or running freely on public
property or property belonging to a person not the owner or person in control
of the animal and without supervision, accompaniment, and adequate restraint.
   ATTACK: Any unprovoked aggressive behavior toward a person or animal.
Aggressive behavior in defense of property or territory of the owner shall
constitute an attack unless the dog or other animal is securely contained
within an enclosure sufficient to prevent physical contact with a person or
animal outside such enclosure.
   COMPETITION CAT: Any show cat (also known as a purebred cat or pedigreed
cat) that is recognized by the Cat Fanciers' Association and/or the
International Cat Association and meets the following requirements:
   A.   The owner or custodian of the cat is a member of a purebred cat breed
club, approved by the department, that encourages its members to be owners and
breeders of cats who work together to promote the preservation of pedigreed
cats and the health and welfare of domestic cats.
   B.   Maintains a certified pedigree registry.
   C.   Has participated in a cat show in the last three hundred sixty five
(365) days which promotes pedigreed cats.
   D.   The owner or custodian of the cat is a member of a purebred cat breed
club, approved by the department, which maintains and enforces a code of ethics
for cat breeding that includes restrictions from breeding cats with genetic
defects and life threatening health problems that commonly threaten the breed.
   COMPETITION DOG: Any animal which is used to show, to compete, or to breed
which is of a breed recognized by the American Kennel Club, United Kennel Club,
or American Dog Breeders Association and meets the following requirements:
   A.   The dog has competed in at least one dog show or sporting competition
sanctioned by the national registry or approved by the department within the
last three hundred sixty five (365) days.
   B.   Maintains a certified pedigree registry.
   C.   The dog has earned a confirmation, obedience, agility, carting,
herding, protection, rally, sporting, working, or other title from a purebred
dog registry or dog sport association.
   D.   The owner or custodian of the dog is a member of a purebred dog breed
club, approved by the department, which maintains and enforces a code of ethics
for dog breeding that includes restrictions from breeding dogs with genetic
defects and life threatening health problems that commonly threaten the breed.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL: A dog or other animal which has attacked, bitten or
injured any human being or other animal without reasonable provocation, or
which has been so declared pursuant to this chapter, or under the facts and
circumstances has acted in a threatening manner toward any human being or other
animal or has displayed characteristics of being trained for fighting, or there
is other evidence to show such training or fighting.
   FIELD OFFICER: Any officer of the police department or other employee of the
city designated to enforce this chapter.
   LICENSABLE ANIMAL: A domestic dog. Other domestic pets, such as cats, birds
or aquarium fish, are not required to obtain a license.
   OWNER, OR HANDLER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring, having
an interest in, or having control, custody or possession of an animal. In the
case of an animal which is owned by a minor, the parent or guardian of the
minor shall constitute the "owner" of such animal for the purposes of this
chapter.
   SERVICE ANIMAL: Any animal which shall include, but not be limited to,
assistance dogs, guide dogs, signal dogs, police dogs, search and rescue
animals, or other service animals as defined by applicable state or federal
law, or is being trained for such use.
   UNALTERED ANIMAL: Any animal capable of reproduction. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-1.1: ANIMAL CONTROL UNIT:
Supervision of the animal control unit shall be delegated to any supervisor of
the police department at the direction of the chief of police and/or his/her
designee. The police department shall carry out the duties of animal control.
   A.   Any city employee acting in the capacity of animal control duties shall
have the following powers:
      1.   To enforce the provisions of this chapter and state laws relating to
the care, treatment, impounding and destruction of animals. These provisions
will also encompass the adoption of animals and/or safe return of animals to
their rightful owner.
      2.   The chief of police may formulate rules and regulations in
conformity with, and for the purposes of carrying out, this chapter.
   B.   The chief of police or his designee shall have authority to determine
whether any animal has engaged in the behaviors, or exhibits any of the
characteristics, of a dangerous animal. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-1.2: RECORDS:
The police department shall keep a record of every animal impounded pursuant to
this chapter which shall include a description of the animal, the date of
receipt, the date and manner of disposal, the name of the person redeeming or
purchasing, and the fees, charges and proceeds of sales received on account of
said animal, and any additional records as may be required. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-
2015)
5-1.3: ANIMAL SHELTER:
There shall be provided by the police department a suitable building,
enclosure, or other support facility to keep and safely hold all animals
impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and said building,
enclosure or other support facility shall be known and designated as the
"shelter". (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-1.4: DOG PARKS:
There may be provided by the city certain defined open spaces for the purposes
of allowing dogs to run freely in a specified enclosed area, and said enclosed
open space areas shall be known and designated as "dog parks". Dog parks shall
be regulated by rules to be adopted by the city manager and/or his/her
designee. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-1.5: IMPOUNDING/COLLECTION OF ANIMALS:
The police department may pick up, impound and safely keep any animal that is
found running at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter within the
incorporated territory of the city. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-1.6: RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES:
Any police department employees performing animal control duties shall be
authorized to enter upon any premises for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-1.7: INTERFERENCE WITH DUTIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with police department
employees engaged in the performance of animal control duties. (Ord. 1824, 6-
16-2015)
ARTICLE II. LICENSABLE ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-2.1: License Required
5-2.2: Mandatory Spay/Neuter Requirement
5-2.3: Issuance Of License And Tag
5-2.4: Time Limits
5-2.5: Vaccination Certificate Required
5-2.6: Term Of License
5-2.7: License Fees
5-2.8: Exemption; Service Or Assistance Animals
5-2.9: Extension Of Time; Animals Too Ill To Be Vaccinated
5-2.10: Replacing Lost Or Stolen Tags
5-2.11: License Transferable
5-2.12: Affixing License Tag
5-2.13: Impounding Biting Or Attacking Animals
5-2.14: Notice To Owner Of Licensed Animal
5-2.15: Redemption Of Impounded Animals
5-2.16: Fees For Impounding And Keeping Licensable Animals
5-2.17: Adoption, Rescue, And/Or Destruction Of Impounded Animals
5-2.18: Licensing Impounded Animals
5-2.19: Removal Of Tag
5-2.20: Display Of Tag
5-2.21: Keeping Dangerous Animals
5-2.22: Interference With Public Rights Of Way Or Roadways
5-2.23: Permitting Animals To Run At Large
5-2.24: Leash Requirements
5-2.25: Barking Dogs
5-2.1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every owner of a licensable animal within the city shall secure a license from
a police department facility for each licensable animal within the time limits
set forth in this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to secure
said license in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. A license need
not be secured for a licensable animal which is brought into the city by its
visiting owner or for the purpose of being entered in a show or exhibition,
provided that the owner of such animal provides proof of current license and/or
current rabies vaccination from the jurisdiction of origin, and the animal is
removed from the city limits no more than thirty (30) days after entry. (Ord.
1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.2: MANDATORY SPAY/NEUTER REQUIREMENT:
It has been shown that mandatory spaying/neutering proves to be effective in
reducing the population of animals in cities. By requiring mandatory spaying/
neutering, the police department is working to reduce the number of
euthanizations conducted in the city of Porterville each year. Spaying/
neutering has been shown to be effective in reducing animals running at large
and also reduces aggressive behavior in animals. As an additional benefit, this
requirement will cut costs to the community in managing the pet population.
   A.   Requirement For Unaltered Animals: No person may keep, own or harbor an
unaltered dog over four (4) months of age within the city limits, unless an
unaltered license has been properly obtained. An owner or custodian of an
unaltered dog must have the animal spayed or neutered or obtain an unaltered
license in accordance with the exceptions to the spay/neuter requirements as
described in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Unaltered Animal License: An owner or custodian of an unaltered dog
over the age of four (4) months must obtain an annual unaltered animal license.
The license shall be issued only if the department has determined that all of
the following conditions have been met:
      1.   The owner or custodian has submitted the required application for
the license and the applicable fees for the license have been paid in
accordance with the fee schedule as set by resolution of the city council.
      2.   The animal meets one or more of the following exemptions:
         a.   An animal unable to be spayed/neutered without a high likelihood
of suffering serious bodily harm or death due to age or infirmity, which is
confirmed in writing from a licensed veterinarian.
         b.   A competition animal as defined in this chapter.
         c.   A service animal which shall include, but not be limited to,
assistance dogs, guide dogs, signal dogs, police dogs, search and rescue
animals, or other service animals as defined by applicable state or federal
law, or is being trained for such use.
         d.   An animal associated with a licensed kennel within the city for
breeding purposes. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE AND TAG:
An application for a license required by this chapter shall be filed with the
police department. Upon payment of the required fee and upon compliance with
the other requirements of this chapter, a license shall be issued. The
application shall contain a description of the animal including age, sex,
color, and breed of the animal, and the name and address of the owner. The
license shall contain a serial number and such other information as the police
department may determine. The police department shall keep a copy of the
application on file. With each license issued, the police department shall also
issue a tag that shall bear the words "City of Porterville" and the serial
number on the animal license. The tag shall be securely worn by the animal for
which the license was issued. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.4: TIME LIMITS:
   A.   An owner of a licensable animal shall secure a license for the animal
within thirty (30) days after he/she acquires ownership of the animal. However,
if a licensable animal is less than four (4) months of age when the owner
acquires it, the owner shall secure a license for the animal within ten (10)
days after the animal becomes four (4) months of age.
   B.   Any person who enters the city and resides in the city for a period of
thirty (30) days or more, and who has brought a licensable animal with him/her
from outside the city, shall secure a license for the animal within thirty (30)
days after the person first enters the city. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.5: VACCINATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   A license for an animal shall not be issued unless the owner of the
animal presents a certificate signed by a veterinarian or other professional as
authorized pursuant to applicable state law showing that said animal has been
vaccinated against rabies. The certificate shall indicate that the period of
time elapsing from the date of the vaccination to the date of expiration of the
license does not exceed thirty six (36) months in the case of vaccination with
live virus rabies vaccine or eighteen (18) months in the case of vaccination
with killed virus rabies vaccine, as those types of vaccines are defined in
section 2606 et seq., of chapter 17 of the California code of regulations.
During any period when the city is designated as a rabies area pursuant to
sections 121575 - 121710 of the Health And Safety Code of the state of
California, no killed virus vaccine shall be used other than a vaccine of
bovine nerve tissue origin.
   B.   Every duly licensed veterinarian or other authorized professional,
after vaccinating any animal owned by a resident of the city of Porterville,
shall sign a certificate containing the following information pursuant to
sections 121575 - 122374 of the Health And Safety Code:
      1.   The type of vaccination used.
      2.   The date of the vaccination.
      3.   The breed, age, color, and sex of the vaccinated animal.
      4.   The serial number of the vaccination tag issued.
      5.   The name and address of the owner of the animal.
   C.   The veterinarian or other authorized professional shall immediately
present the original vaccination certificate to the owner of the animal, and
shall deliver the duplicate copy to the police department. The veterinarian or
other authorized professional shall keep a copy. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.6: TERM OF LICENSE:
Animal licenses shall be issued for all licensable animals older than four (4)
months of age at intervals not less than one year and not more than three (3)
years. Commencing on the first day of the month after a license period lapses,
the police department shall collect a delinquent penalty, in addition to the
regular license fee, before issuing any license. The delinquent penalty shall
be in an amount equal to the regular license fee as set forth in the fee
schedule. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.7: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee for each licensable animal shall be established by a resolution
of the city council as adopted in a fee schedule. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.8: EXEMPTION; SERVICE OR ASSISTANCE ANIMALS:
Any other provision of this chapter notwithstanding, it shall be at the
discretion of the police department regarding whether or not there will be a
charge for the annual licensing of a service animal as described by this
chapter. Proof of such use or training shall be provided by the applicant at
the time of license application in a form satisfactory to the police
department, pursuant to sections 365.5 and 365.7 of the Penal Code. (Ord. 1824,
6-16-2015)
5-2.9: EXTENSION OF TIME; ANIMALS TOO ILL TO BE VACCINATED:
If a licensable animal is too ill to be vaccinated against rabies at the time
that the time limits set forth in this chapter expire, then the date for
securing the license is extended until thirty (30) days after the date on which
the animal is well enough to be vaccinated, and no delinquent penalties shall
be charged for issuance of the license during said thirty (30) day period.
However, an extension of time shall not be granted pursuant to this section
unless the application for the license is accompanied by a certificate signed
by a veterinarian setting forth facts which show that the licensable animal
comes within the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.10: REPLACING LOST OR STOLEN TAGS:
Whenever a tag issued for the current period has been stolen or lost, the owner
of the animal for which the tag was issued may, upon the payment of a fee to
the police department, receive a duplicate tag. The fee for a duplicate tag
shall be set by resolution of the city council as adopted in a fee schedule.
(Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.11: LICENSE TRANSFERABLE:
The license and tag issued pursuant to this chapter may be transferred when the
ownership of the animal is transferred. The new owner or the previous owner of
the animal shall notify the police department in writing of the change in
ownership of the animal and the name and address of the new owner. If such
written notice is not given, the police department shall send all required
notices concerning said animal to the person whose name and address are on file
with the police department. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.12: AFFIXING LICENSE TAG:
It shall be unlawful to possess a licensable animal in the city limits without
the tag issued pursuant to this chapter being securely affixed to the animal by
means of a collar, harness, or other suitable device. It shall be unlawful for
any person to affix the tag required by this chapter to any animal except the
animal for which it was issued and it shall be unlawful for the owner of an
animal to allow the animal to wear a tag other than the tag issued for the
current period. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.13: IMPOUNDING BITING OR ATTACKING ANIMALS:
   A.   The police department shall have the power to summarily and immediately
impound any animal where there is evidence it has attacked, bitten, or injured
any human being or other animal, or where there is evidence that an animal has
acted in a threatening manner toward any human being, has exhibited
characteristics of being trained for fighting or attacking, or there is other
evidence to show such training or fighting, pending any court proceeding or
animal license or animal permit revocation proceeding arising from the attack,
bite, or injury, or pending a hearing pursuant to sections 5-3.11 and 5-3.12 of
this chapter. The police department may enter and inspect private property to
enforce the provisions of this section. Failure to surrender to the police
department upon demand an animal which is being impounded pursuant to this
section is a misdemeanor. The police department shall also, as soon as
reasonably possible, notify the bite victim of the rabies vaccination status of
the biting animal.
An animal wearing a current license tag, impounded pursuant to the authority of
this chapter, shall be returned to the owner or custodian as provided by this
chapter when it is no longer required as evidence or considered to be vicious
by the police department. Once the owner is notified the animal is to be
returned, he/she has six (6) business days, not including the date of
notification, to retrieve the animal.
An animal not wearing a license tag, impounded pursuant to the authority of
this chapter may be destroyed in accordance with applicable state and federal
laws, if within six (6) business days after being impounded, not including the
date of impoundment, the owner has failed to make application to redeem the
animal. If, within six (6) business days after being impounded, not including
the date of impoundment, the owner has applied to redeem the animal, then the
animal shall be returned to the owner as provided by this chapter, or when it
is no longer required as evidence or considered to be vicious by the police
department, and the owner has also satisfied all licensing requirements.
   B.   In lieu of impound, the police department may permit the animal to be
confined at the owner's or custodian's expense in a licensed kennel or
veterinary facility approved by the police department, or at the owner's or
custodian's residence, provided that the owner or custodian:
      1.   Shall not remove the animal from the kennel or veterinary facility
without the prior written approval of the police department.
      2.   Shall make the animal available for observation and inspection by
the police department.
   C.   The police department may have an animal impounded or confined as
provided in subsection A or B of this section, permanently identified by means
of photo identification prior to release from impound or confinement. (Ord.
1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.14: NOTICE TO OWNER OF LICENSED ANIMAL:
Within two (2) days after an animal which is wearing a license tag is
impounded, the police department shall contact the owner by phone or in person
at the address shown on the application for the license on file, and advise the
owner of the procedure whereby he/she may apply to regain custody of the
animal. If the owner cannot be contacted within the first two (2) days of
impoundment, the police department shall mail a written notice of the
impoundment to the mailing address on file for the owner. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-
2015)
5-2.15: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   The owner of any animal impounded, other than pursuant to this chapter,
may redeem the animal at any time prior to its adoption, transfer to an animal
rescue, or destruction. The owner desiring to redeem an animal shall deliver to
the police department an application for redemption and a statement in a form
prescribed by the police department which shall contain a description of the
animal to be redeemed, the name and address of the owner, and the statement
that he or she is the owner of the animal. The police department shall issue to
the owner a written statement containing the name and address of the owner, a
description of the animal redeemed, the date on which the animal was impounded,
and the accrued fees to be paid by owner, and said statement shall serve as a
certificate of redemption and receipt for the fees paid.
   B.   The owner of any animal impounded pursuant to this chapter may redeem
the animal pursuant to subsection A of this section only after seventy two (72)
hours from impoundment if he or she has not received notice that the animal has
been declared a dangerous animal and of the right to a hearing pursuant to this
chapter or if, after a hearing, an order is made to return the animal to the
owner. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015; Ord. 1833, 6-21-2016)
5-2.16: FEES FOR IMPOUNDING AND KEEPING LICENSABLE ANIMALS:
The owner of an animal which has been impounded shall pay to the police
department an impounding fee and shall also pay a fee for keeping said animal
for each day, or portion thereof, which said animal has been impounded unless
the amount required to keep the animal is higher in which case the owner shall
pay the actual cost of keeping the animal. The owner may also be charged for
actual costs of veterinarian fees, medications and vaccinations associated with
the care of their animal while said animal is under the care and custody of the
police department. Impoundment and associated fees will be set by resolution of
the city council as adopted in a fee schedule. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.17: ADOPTION, RESCUE, AND/OR DESTRUCTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   Unless an animal has been claimed within seventy two (72) hours after
being impounded, or within ten (10) days for a licensed animal, not including
the date of impoundment, or unless it is being held for evidence in a hearing
pursuant to sections
5-3.11 through
5-3.13 of this chapter, it may be made available for adoption or rescue by the
police department to a person other than the owner. No animal which has been
declared a dangerous animal pursuant to sections
5-3.11 through
5-3.13 of this chapter shall be made available for adoption or rescue pursuant
to this section nor shall any animal which has been impounded pursuant to
section
5-2.13 of this article and subsequently found not dangerous but improperly
trained, handled, or maintained be made available for adoption or rescue.
   B.   An animal may be humanely destroyed in accordance with state laws by
the police department if within seventy two (72) hours of impoundment, or
within ten (10) days for a licensed animal, not including the date of
impoundment, the owner has failed to make an application to claim the animal.
   C.   All animals coming into the jurisdiction of the police department
animal control unit shall be screened for a license tag, microchip, or any
other means of locating the owner. After all efforts have been made to locate
the owner, the animal will be handled pursuant to subsections A and B of this
section.
   D.   All animals voluntarily surrendered by their owner will be handled in
accordance with subsections A and B of this section.
   E.   When an animal is adopted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
the police department shall deliver to the person adopting said animal a
contract containing a description of the animal, the date of transfer, and the
terms of the adoption and the amount of fees paid. Upon the proper adoption of
an animal, the previous owner of the animal shall thereafter be barred from all
rights to recover the animal. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015; Ord. 1833, 6-21-2016)
5-2.18: LICENSING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
The police department shall not release any licensable animal to its owner
until such time as the owner provides proof of application for license in the
jurisdiction of their residence. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.19: REMOVAL OF TAG:
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from a licensable animal the
attached license tag for the current period. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.20: DISPLAY OF TAG:
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to show police department
employees, on request, the license certificate and/or the tag for any
licensable animal kept on the premises under their control. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-
2015)
5-2.21: KEEPING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for a person to keep an animal which has been found to be
a dangerous or vicious animal pursuant to this chapter, or any other
jurisdiction. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.22: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY OR ROADWAYS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow or permit any animal to habitually
or repeatedly attack, chase, molest or frighten pedestrians, cyclists, vehicles
or other users of the public rights of way or roadways. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.23: PERMITTING ANIMALS TO RUN AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or other person in lawful possession or
control of an animal to allow or permit the animal to run at large upon any
property, public or private, except with the consent of the property owner, or
in a park or other area designated specifically for such activity. Every animal
found running at large in violation of the provisions of this section may be
seized and impounded and/or the responsible person may be issued a citation for
said violation. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.24: LEASH REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or handler in lawful possession or control
of a dog to walk the dog on any public place or right of way without the dog
being secured or tethered by a fixed length leash not to exceed six feet (6'),
and the number of dogs shall not exceed the number of dogs the owner or handler
can reasonably and safely control and in no circumstance shall the number of
dogs exceed three (3). (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-2.25: BARKING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or caretaker of a dog to keep said dog in
the city limits which by loud or excessive barking, howling, whining, crying,
yelping, or making any other noise disturbs the comfort, quiet, or peace of any
neighborhood or any person at any time, provided the owner has been made aware
of the disturbance by the police department. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
ARTICLE III. ANIMAL KEEPING
SECTION:
5-3.1: Keeping Of Animals
5-3.2: Animal Care, Control, And Subsistence
5-3.3: Annexations; Compliance/Transition Period
5-3.4: Animals In City Buildings And Vehicles
5-3.5: Control And Seizure Of Diseased Animals
5-3.6: Cruelty To Animals Prohibited
5-3.7: Abandonment Of Animals Prohibited
5-3.8: Killing/Butchering/Processing Of Animals Or Fowl
5-3.9: Public Nuisance
5-3.10: Nuisance; Inspection For Same
5-3.11: Hearing To Determine If Animal Is Dangerous
5-3.12: Hearing; Conduct
5-3.13: Hearing; Decision And Disposition Of Animal
5-3.1: KEEPING OF ANIMALS:
Animal keeping is allowed as an accessory use to a primary residential use.
Animals may be kept in compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Residential Household Pets: Household pets such as domestic dogs, cats,
birds, or other small animals ordinarily permitted inside of a dwelling and
kept only for the company and pleasure provided to the occupants shall be
permitted. Chickens may be allowed within certain residential zones subject to
the conditions specified herein. Household pets shall not include horses, cows,
goats, sheep or other equine, bovine, ovine or ruminant animals, pigs,
chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, game birds or fowl which normally constitute
an agricultural use. At no time shall the combined number of animals kept
exceed seven (7) animals. At no time shall the number of cats, dogs, or
chickens exceed three (3) animals. It shall be unlawful to possess a
combination of animals kept to exceed seven (7) residential household pets.
   B.   Keeping Of Chickens In Residential Areas: It is unlawful for any person
to keep or maintain within single-family residential uses any chickens, except
as follows:
      1.   A total of not more than three (3) chicken hens may be kept and
maintained in a clean and sanitary environment.
      2.   No part of any structure (i.e., coop) shall be located less than
thirty feet (30') from any residence, other than a residence owned and occupied
by the person owning or in possession of such chickens. Further, the keeping of
chickens shall not create a health or nuisance problem.
      3.   The permissive keeping of chickens shall be subject to the following
minimum standards:
         a.   All chickens shall be kept in an area which is fenced so as to
prevent the chickens from roaming, and such fenced area shall be wholly located
within the rear yard of the site where the chickens are kept.
         b.   Within the fenced area, a shelter shall be provided of sufficient
size to provide cover for the chickens kept on the parcel.
         c.   Enclosure areas shall be of sufficient size to provide adequate
and proper housing so as to prevent overcrowding.
         d.   Roosters are expressly prohibited.
   C.   Agricultural Animals: The keeping of horses, cows, goats, sheep or
other equine, bovine, ovine or ruminant animals is permitted in the AC and RR
zone districts on lots one-half (0.5) acre or greater and on lots two (2) acres
or larger developed as a single-family residential use, subject to zoning
administrator approval, as long as the number of animals does not exceed one
per fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of lot area. The keeping of chickens,
ducks, geese, turkeys, game birds or fowl is permitted with the total number
not to exceed twelve (12) birds per gross acre. The raising of pigs is
permitted in conjunction with an FFA or 4-H project for any recognized fair,
the limit being one animal per student residing on the property. All animals
other than household pets shall be housed or penned at a minimum distance of
thirty five feet (35') from property lines and fifty feet (50') from any
residence. All areas and structures used in conjunction with the keeping of
animals other than household pets shall be maintained and cleaned so as not to
present a public hazard or nuisance.
   D.   Unlawful To Keep Certain Animals: Except as permitted in subsections B
and C of this section, it is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or
permit to be maintained bees, swine, llamas, roosters, chickens, pigeons,
turkeys, pea fowl, waterfowl, ostriches and other "ratitae", or livestock on
any premises within the city. In addition, predatory, wild, or endangered
animals are not allowed within the city.
   E.   Permitted Animal Offspring: The offspring of any permitted animal may
be kept until weaned, as long as they do not exceed the total number of animals
allowed herein.
   F.   Keeping Of Animals For Commercial Purposes: The keeping of animals for
commercial purposes shall not violate the provisions of
chapter 21 of this code, which regulates kennels, pet stores, veterinary
services, and animal raising. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.2: ANIMAL CARE, CONTROL, AND SUBSISTENCE:
The following section provides the minimal requirements for the care and
harboring of animals within the city limits. Nothing in this section is
intended to conflict with any provision of
chapter 21 of this code.
   A.   Sanitary Enclosure Requirements:
      1.   All premises, enclosures, or structures used, or intended to be
used, for the harboring of animals must be cleaned and kept reasonably free of
debris, refuse, manure, excreta, or like material as often as may be necessary
to comply with the provisions of this section.
      2.   The floor of any premises, enclosure, or structure used for the
keeping of animals must be smooth and tight to prevent the accumulation of
water, debris, refuse, manure, excreta, or like material. A wire floor may be
used if appropriate for the type of animal being harbored and if maintained to
prevent injury to the animal.
      3.   Evidence of unsanitary or substandard maintenance of the premises,
enclosure, or structure may include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   The accumulation of debris, refuse, manure, excreta, or other
like material upon any surface within any such premises, enclosure, or
structure used, or intended to be used, for the housing of such animals;
         b.   Any reasonably obnoxious odor or allergen arising from any
condition existing within the premises, enclosure, or structure used or
intended to be used for the housing of such animals; and
         c.   The presence of numerous flies or fly larvae in the vicinity.
   B.   Enclosure, Structure, Shading Requirements:
      1.   All animals must have adequate enclosures, structures, or alternate
forms of shading to allow an animal maintained outdoors to:
         a.   Protect itself from the direct rays of the sun when the sunlight
is likely to cause overheating or discomfort; and
         b.   Remain dry during the rain or other wet conditions.
      2.   The enclosure, structure, or shading must be accessible to the
animal at all times.
      3.   The enclosure or structure must be situated to prevent exposing the
animal to:
         a.   Unreasonably loud noise; and/or
         b.   Teasing, harassment, abuse, or injury by another animal or
person.
      4.   If the animal is confined in an enclosure or structure, the
enclosure or structure must be:
         a.   Of adequate size inside and outside the enclosure or structure to
allow the animal to stand, sit, turn around freely, or lie down in a normal
position, relieve itself away from its confinement, and safely interact with
any other animal;
         b.   Adequately lighted to provide regular lighting cycles of natural
or artificial light uniformly diffused throughout the shelter, and sufficient
illumination for routine inspections and maintenance of the animal; and
         c.   Supplied with clean and dry bedding material or other means of
protection from the weather elements to maintain the shelter at a temperature
that is not harmful to the health of the animal.
   C.   Water Requirements:
      1.   All animals must have access to clean potable water at all times
unless restricted for veterinary care. If the water is kept in a container, the
container must be designed to prevent tipping and spilling of the water or be
secured to a solid structure, object or the ground.
      2.   Water containers must be clean and must be emptied and refilled with
fresh water as necessary to maintain cleanliness or, alternatively, if the
water is provided by an automatic or demand device, the water supply connected
to the device must be functional at all times.
   D.   Food And Feeding Requirements:
      1.   All animals must be provided food that is wholesome and be of
sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain a healthy body weight and
meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the animal.
      2.   The food receptacles must be accessible to the animal and be placed
in a location to minimize contamination from excreta and insects. Feeding pans
must be durable and kept clean. Disposable food receptacles may be used and
must be discarded after each feeding. Self-feeders may be used for dry food and
must be sanitized regularly to prevent molding, deterioration, or the dense
compaction of food.
      3.   Spoiled or contaminated animal food must be disposed of in a
sanitary manner.
   E.   Veterinary Treatment Requirement: All animals must receive veterinary
treatment from a veterinarian licensed by the state of California when such
treatment is necessary to alleviate the animal's apparent suffering or prevent
the transmission of disease.
   F.   Exercise Requirements: All animals must be provided the opportunity to
exercise in order to maintain normal muscle tone and mass for the age, size,
and condition of the animal.
   G.   Transportation Requirements: All animals must be handled, moved, or
shipped in a manner to ensure the health and safety and overall comfort of the
animal.
   H.   Refuse Container Requirements: Any debris, refuse, manure, excreta, or
other like material conducive to the breeding of flies or that creates a
reasonably obnoxious odor must be placed in a flyproofed container until the
material is removed from the premises or buried under the soil surface as
fertilizer.
   I.   Food Storage Containers: All grain or cereal intended for use as food
for animals must be kept in containers with tightly fitted covers or other
containers constructed to keep out vermin and wild animals.
   J.   Disposal Of Deceased Animals:
      1.   Upon the death of any animal, the owner or person in charge thereof
shall provide for the burial, incineration or other disposition of the body of
such animal in a manner not likely to result in an unsanitary condition. It
shall be unlawful to dispose of any dead animal in any trash or garbage
receptacle, whether public or private, to be hauled and carried into the
general municipal solid waste stream. If the owner or person in charge of any
dead animal is unable to provide for burial or other disposition, he/she may
request the police department to remove and dispose of the body of such animal
for a fee as set forth by a resolution of the city council in a fee schedule.
      2.   Upon learning that the body of a dead animal has not been disposed
of in a safe and sanitary manner, the police department may remove and dispose
of such body immediately. The owner or person who had legal custody of such
animal at the time of removal shall, immediately upon city's demand for
payment, pay the police department for costs incurred as established by a
resolution of the city council in a fee schedule. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.3: ANNEXATIONS; COMPLIANCE/TRANSITION PERIOD:
Prohibited animals brought into the city limits as the result of a property
annexation may be maintained on the annexed property for a maximum transitional
period of three hundred sixty five (365) days from the date of annexation as
long as the animals in question can legally be owned or possessed by law, are
not classified as or presumed to be dangerous, and are in compliance with the
ordinances of the county of Tulare at the time of annexation. Subsequent to the
transitional period, the animals/property must be brought into compliance with
the ordinances of the city of Porterville. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.4: ANIMALS IN CITY BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person charged with the care of any animal
or animals to cause or permit such animal to enter or remain in city owned or
city managed buildings other than a building used for the purpose of care,
detention, control, or treatment of animals, or a building used for training
classes, shows, or exhibitions. This subsection shall not apply to persons
using service animals, nor to dogs utilized by a public safety agency as a part
of an Emergency Service Therapy Dog Program.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an individual actually
in the process of working a dog or other animal for ranching purposes, to
transport or carry the animal in a motor vehicle on any public highway, public
roadway, or lot open to the public unless the animal is safely enclosed within
the vehicle or secured by means of a container, cage or other device which will
prevent the animal from falling from, jumping from, or being thrown from the
motor vehicle. Dogs riding in the open area of a truck must be either in a
secured cage or cross tied to the truck.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any dog or other animal in
a vehicle or other enclosure without adequate ventilation or in such a manner
as to subject the animal to extreme temperatures which may adversely affect the
health or well being of the animal. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015; amd. Ord. 1878, 11-
7-2020)
5-3.5: CONTROL AND SEIZURE OF DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having charge of any
animal which that person knows to be infected with any disease transmittable to
humans or detrimental to other animals to permit such animal to remain within
the city limits other than at an approved veterinary hospital unless the police
department or other appropriate authority approves an alternative means of
confinement.
   B.   The police department is authorized to seize any animal reasonably
believed to be infected with disease transmittable to humans or detrimental to
other animals. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any activity likely to cause
harm or maliciously, wilfully, or recklessly kill, maim, wound, mutilate,
torment, torture or physically abuse any animal as defined in section 597 of
the California Penal Code. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.7: ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to abandon any animal within the city limits.
"Abandonment", as used herein, refers to acts clearly indicating intent on the
part of an owner or person in control of an animal to permanently relinquish
control over the animal. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.8: KILLING/BUTCHERING/PROCESSING OF ANIMALS OR FOWL:
It shall be unlawful to kill, slaughter, or sacrifice any game animal or fowl
inside the city limits of Porterville within the public view except on the
premises or within the confines of establishments licensed for that purpose or
within the confines of a recognized/licensed teaching institution as part of a
curriculum. This section does not apply to police department employees acting
in the capacity of animal control duties. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.9: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   It is declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful, for any
person owning or having control or custody of any animal to do any of the
following:
      1.   Permit an animal to defecate or urinate on any privately owned or
occupied property other than that of the owner or the person having control of
the animal;
      2.   Permit an animal to defecate on public property without immediately
cleaning or removing the excrement to a proper receptacle;
      3.   Permit unsanitary conditions to exist on any premises where an
animal is kept which would cause foul or obnoxious odors, attract flies or
vermin or otherwise threaten public health and safety; or
      4.   Cause or permit any animal to run or wander on any public property
or privately owned or occupied property or premises without the consent of the
owner or occupant of the property.
   B.   If an unaltered animal is determined to be a nuisance pursuant to this
subsection, upon a second offense the owner may be required to have the animal
altered.
   C.   The owner or person in control of an animal that has been determined to
be a nuisance on a second or subsequent occasion may be required to have a
microchip inserted into the animal for identification purposes. In such
instances, the microchip must be implanted by a licensed veterinarian within
twenty (20) days of being classified as a nuisance for a second or subsequent
offense and shall be at the expense of the owner or person in control of the
animal. The owner or person in control of the animal shall provide the police
department with a certificate of completion and provide the information listed
on the microchip, which will be included in the licensing record for that
animal.
   D.   Any police department employee acting in the capacity of animal control
may seize and impound any animal causing a public nuisance.
   E.   Any private person may maintain an action under Civil Code section 3493
for enforcement of this chapter declaring certain acts a public nuisance, if
such acts are especially injurious to such person. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.10: NUISANCE; INSPECTION FOR SAME:
   A.   The police department may enter upon any yard, lot, or parcel of land
for the purpose of investigating animal related nuisances.
   B.   If the investigating officer has reason to believe a nuisance exists,
he/she may serve written notice of correction to the person or persons owning
or having control of, or acting as agent for, leasing or occupying such
premises, to abate or remove such nuisance within forty eight (48) hours or
other reasonable time as stated in the notice. Such notice shall be served
personally or, where the person responsible for such nuisance cannot be
located, by posting the notice in a conspicuous place on the front door or
entranceway.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly, wilfully, or
negligently fail to abate the nuisance alleged in the notice or fail to contest
the allegations in the notice within forty eight (48) hours (or other time as
specified in the notice) following receipt or knowledge of same.
   D.   Where the person upon whom the abatement notice is required to be
served under subsection B of this section has been properly served but does not
abate the nuisance within the time specified in the notice, the police
department shall have the authority to do the following:
      1.   Where the nuisance is caused by an at large animal, a wild or exotic
animal or a dangerous animal, the police department may follow the procedures
relating to seizure and impoundment.
      2.   Where the nuisance is in the nature of noise or odors and is caused
by an animal or animals by animal waste or other conditions on the premises
that are the result of the keeping of the animals, the police department may
abate the nuisance by substantially following the notice, hearing, and the
abatement procedure. Cost recovery procedures will follow the same as set forth
in the impoundment recovery procedures defined in this chapter pursuant to a
fee schedule adopted by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.11: HEARING TO DETERMINE IF ANIMAL IS DANGEROUS:
   A.   The police department may declare any animal to be dangerous whenever
it has attacked, bitten or caused injury to any human being or other animal, or
where there is evidence that an animal has acted in a threatening manner toward
any human being, or has exhibited characteristics of being trained for fighting
or attacking. Within two (2) days after an animal, which is wearing a license
tag or can otherwise be identified, is impounded pursuant to this section, the
police department shall serve notice of the finding to the owner of record via
registered mail or deliver the same in person, advising the owner that the
animal is dangerous and of the owner's right to a hearing on the issue of
whether or not the animal is dangerous.
   B.   The owner of an animal confined or impounded pursuant to this section
may, within the six (6) business day time period, not including the date of
impound, provide application for redemption of the animal, requesting a hearing
to determine whether or not the animal is dangerous.
   C.   When a hearing is requested pursuant to subsection B of this section, a
date and time for such a hearing shall be set, and notice thereof shall be
served to all involved parties including, but not limited to, the owner,
witness(es), and victim(s) within five (5) business days. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-
2015)
5-3.12: HEARING; CONDUCT:
   A.   A hearing requested in accordance with this chapter shall be conducted
before a person appointed by the chief of police to serve as a hearing officer.
   B.   The hearing shall be open to the public. The animal owner may be
represented by an attorney. The hearing officer shall hear all pertinent
evidence offered by any interested persons. The technical rules of evidence
shall not be applicable to the hearing, except that the hearing officer's
decision may not be based solely on hearsay evidence. All persons giving
evidence shall be sworn in before testifying. The hearing will be recorded
electronically by an uninvolved member of the police department. Copies of the
hearing recording will be provided to the involved parties upon request.
   C.   Any animal which has attacked, bitten, or caused injury to a human
being or other animal is presumed to be dangerous and the burden is on the
owner to present evidence that the animal is not dangerous.
   D.   In making a determination that an animal is or is not dangerous,
evidence of the following shall be considered:
      1.   Any previous history of the animal attacking, biting, or causing
injury to a human being or other animal;
      2.   The nature and extent of injuries inflicted and the number of
victims involved;
      3.   The place where the bite, attack, or injury occurred;
      4.   The presence or absence of any provocation for the bite, attack, or
injury;
      5.   The extent to which property has been damaged or destroyed;
      6.   Whether the animal exhibits any characteristics of being trained for
fighting or attack or other evidence to show such training or fighting;
      7.   Whether the animal exhibits characteristics of aggressive or
unpredictable temperament or behavior in the presence of human beings or
animals;
      8.   Whether the animal can be effectively trained or retrained to change
its temperament or behavior;
      9.   The manner in which the animal had been maintained by its owner or
custodian;
      10.   Any other relevant evidence concerning the maintenance of the
animal;
      11.   Any other relevant evidence regarding the ability of the owner or
custodian to protect the public safety in the future if the animal is permitted
to remain in the city; and
      12.   Any other relevant evidence concerning the characteristics or
behavior of the animal, or concerning the circumstances of the incident. (Ord.
1824, 6-16-2015)
5-3.13: HEARING; DECISION AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMAL:
   A.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer may determine:
      1.   That the animal is not dangerous and should be returned to its
owner; or
      2.   That the animal is not dangerous but that the attack, bite, or
injury was the result of improper or negligent training, handling, or
maintenance; or
      3.   That the animal is dangerous and it should be humanely destroyed
after all appeal processes have been exhausted following the receipt of the
hearing officer's decision.
   B.   If it is determined that the animal is not dangerous, but that the
bite, attack, or injury was the result of improper or negligent training,
handling, or maintenance and the owner is unable or unwilling to properly
train, handle, or maintain the animal and that a similar incident is likely to
occur in the future without proper training, handling, or maintenance, the
animal may be destroyed.
   C.   If it is determined that the animal is not dangerous, but that the
bite, attack, or injury was the result of improper or negligent training,
handling or maintenance, but also that the owner is able and willing to
properly train, handle, or maintain the animal and that similar incident is not
likely to occur in the future with proper training, handling and maintenance,
the animal may be returned to the owner with documentation of how to prevent
future incidents.
   D.   The decision of the hearing officer shall be in writing and shall be
delivered personally to the owner or mailed to him/her by certified mail.
   E.   The owner may, within ten (10) days of receipt of the hearing officer's
written decision, appeal the hearing officer's decision to the Tulare County
superior court pursuant to California Code Of Civil Procedure section 1094.6.
The police department will be notified by the owner of the appeal in writing on
the same date as the appeal was filed. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
ARTICLE IV. KENNELS
SECTION:
5-4.1: Kennel Defined
5-4.2: Kennel Permit And Application Fee
5-4.3: Vaccination Certificate Required
5-4.4: Preliminary Inspection
5-4.5: Permit
5-4.6: Term Of Permit
5-4.7: Delinquent Penalties; Securing Individual Licenses If Kennel Permit
Denied; Time Limits
5-4.8: Inspection Of Kennel
5-4.9: Delivery Of Vaccination Certificates To Purchasers
5-4.10: Effect Of Revocation Of Kennel Permit
5-4.1: KENNEL DEFINED:
The term "kennel", as used in this chapter, means a premises, building or
enclosure where four (4) or more animals not owned by the kennel owner or
operator are kept, boarded, trained, or maintained for commercial purposes for
a period longer than twenty four (24) hours. The maintenance of more than two
(2) animals used for breeding purposes for which compensation is received, or
the parturition or rearing of more than two (2) litters in one calendar year
shall be a rebuttable presumption that such animals are owned or maintained for
the purpose of commercial breeding and the owner and the premises shall be
subject to permit and licensing requirements as established in chapter 15 of
this code. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-4.2: KENNEL PERMIT AND APPLICATION FEE:
In lieu of securing the license required by this chapter for each of the
animals in a kennel, a person owning or operating a kennel may obtain a kennel
permit covering all of the animals maintained in the kennel. It shall be
unlawful to fail to secure the permit required by this chapter. The application
for a kennel permit shall be filed with the police department, along with a
copy of a valid city business license. The fees for kennel permits shall be set
by resolution of the city council in a fee schedule. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-4.3: VACCINATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
The police department shall not issue a kennel permit unless the person
applying for the permit files a certificate or certificates signed by a
licensed veterinarian showing that all of the animals in the kennel which are
over four (4) months of age have been vaccinated against rabies and which
indicates that the period of time elapsing from the dates of the vaccinations
to the date of expiration of the kennel permit does not exceed thirty six (36)
months in the case of vaccination with live virus rabies vaccine or eighteen
(18) months in the case of vaccination with killed virus rabies vaccine, as
those types of vaccines are defined in section 2606 et seq., of chapter 17 of
the California code of regulations. During any period when the city of
Porterville is designated as a rabies area pursuant to sections 121575 - 122374
of the Health And Safety Code of the state of California, no killed virus
vaccine shall be used other than vaccine of bovine nerve tissue origin.
However, if one or more animals in the kennel are too ill to be vaccinated
against rabies at the time the application for the kennel permit is filed with
the police department, and the application for the kennel permit is accompanied
by a certificate signed by a veterinarian which states this fact, the police
department may process and issue the kennel permit in compliance with this
chapter. The owner of the kennel shall thereafter have each such animal
vaccinated within thirty (30) days after the date on which it becomes well
enough to be vaccinated and the owner of the kennel shall file the vaccination
certificate with the police department. If a person holding a kennel permit has
failed to have an animal vaccinated pursuant to this section, the police
department may immediately revoke the kennel permit and give the holder of the
kennel permit written notice of such revocation. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-4.4: PRELIMINARY INSPECTION:
The police department may inspect all kennels to determine whether the kennels
are constructed and operated in such a manner as to prevent the animals
confined therein from running at large. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-4.5: PERMIT:
If the police department has determined that the kennels are constructed and
operated in such a manner as to prevent animals confined therein from running
at large, and if the required vaccination certificates have been filed in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the police department may issue
a kennel permit to the applicant. The kennel permit issued by the police
department shall contain a serial number, the expiration date of the permit,
the address of the kennel, and such other information as the police department
may require. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-4.6: TERM OF PERMIT:
Kennel permits shall be issued on an annual basis commencing on January 1 and
expiring on December 31. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-4.7: DELINQUENT PENALTIES; SECURING INDIVIDUAL LICENSES IF KENNEL PERMIT
DENIED; TIME LIMITS:
Commencing on January 1 of each year, the police department shall collect a
delinquent penalty, in addition to the regular permit fee, before issuing any
kennel permit if the time limits set forth in this chapter have expired for any
animal in the kennel at the time that the application for the permit is filed.
The delinquent penalty shall be in an amount equal to the regular permit fee as
set forth in this chapter. If an application for a kennel permit is filed
before the time limits set forth in this chapter have expired, and if after the
expiration of such time limits, the police department determines that a kennel
permit will not be issued, the police department shall send the owner of the
kennel written notice that the kennel permit will not be issued. It shall be
unlawful for the owner of the kennel to fail to secure individual licenses for
each of the animals in the kennel, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
within thirty (30) days after receipt of such written notice of such violation.
During the period between the date on which the application for the kennel
permit is filed with the police department until thirty (30) days after receipt
of said written notice, the owner of the kennel shall not be in violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-4.8: INSPECTION OF KENNEL:
The police department may at any time inspect any kennel for which a kennel
permit has been issued. If the police department determines that the kennel is
not being operated in accordance with this chapter, the police department may
revoke the kennel permit. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-4.9: DELIVERY OF VACCINATION CERTIFICATES TO PURCHASERS:
Whenever a person holding a kennel permit sells any animal in the kennel, he/
she shall deliver a copy of the vaccination certificate for the animal to the
purchaser. If satisfactory evidence is presented to the police department that
a person holding a kennel permit has failed to comply with the provisions of
this section, the police department may revoke the kennel permit. (Ord. 1824,
6-16-2015)
5-4.10: EFFECT OF REVOCATION OF KENNEL PERMIT:
If the police department revokes a kennel permit pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of the kennel to fail to
secure individual licenses for each of the animals in the kennel, pursuant to
this chapter, within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice of such
revocation from the police department. Any person whose kennel permit has been
revoked by the police department shall not be permitted to apply for a kennel
permit until the next calendar year. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
ARTICLE V. RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
5-5.1: Application Of Article
5-5.2: Animal Showing Signs Of Rabies
5-5.3: Isolation Of Rabid Animals And Clinically Suspected Rabid Animals
5-5.4: Animals Biting Persons
5-5.5: Animals In Contact With Rabid Animals
5-5.6: Violation Of Quarantine
5-5.1: APPLICATION OF ARTICLE:
This article shall be in effect only at those times when the city of
Porterville is not designated as a rabies area pursuant to sections 121575 -
122374 of the Health And Safety Code of the state of California. During those
periods when the city of Porterville is designated as a rabies area, the
provisions of said sections 121575 - 122374 of the Health And Safety Code, and
the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, are applicable rather than
the provisions of this article. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-5.2: ANIMAL SHOWING SIGNS OF RABIES:
Whenever the owner of an animal observes or learns that such animal shows
symptoms of rabies or acts in a manner which would lead to a reasonable
suspicion that it may have rabies, such person shall immediately notify the
police department. Said person shall thereafter allow the police department to
inspect or examine the animal. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-5.3: ISOLATION OF RABID ANIMALS AND CLINICALLY SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS:
The owner of any rabid animal or clinically suspected rabid animal shall
isolate the animal in strict confinement under proper care and under the
observation of a veterinarian in a kennel, veterinary hospital, or other
adequate facility in a manner approved by the police department, and said
animal shall not be destroyed or released from confinement for at least ten
(10) days after the onset of symptoms suggestive of rabies and until the police
department gives written authorization for the release of the animal, with the
exception that such animal may be euthanized with the permission of the police
department for the purpose of a laboratory examination for rabies using the
fluorescent rabies antibody test in an approved public health laboratory. (Ord.
1824, 6-16-2015)
5-5.4: ANIMALS BITING PERSONS:
Whenever the owner of an animal has knowledge that such animal has bitten any
person, the owner shall immediately report that fact to the police department
and report the name and address of the person bitten and the time and place
that such person was bitten. Upon order of the police department, the owner
shall quarantine the animal for the period of time specified in section 2606 of
chapter 17 of the California administrative code with regard to rabies areas,
and shall allow the police department to make inspections and examinations of
the animal from time to time during such period. The police department may
quarantine said animal upon the premises of the owner. However, if the owner of
the animal so desires, the police department shall place the animal in
quarantine in a veterinary hospital, at the expense of the owner, in lieu of
quarantine of the animal on the premises of the owner. Quarantine shall be made
by written notice delivered to the owner of said animal stating that the animal
is quarantined and the instructions to be followed. If the quarantine is upon
the premises of the owner of the animal, the animal shall be confined within a
locked enclosure so constructed that the animal cannot escape or have contact
with any other animal or human being other than the person responsible for its
care or, at the discretion of the police department, the animal may be kept
under restraint by leash in charge of a responsible person, or under such
restrictions as the police department may prescribe. Said animal shall be kept
in quarantine until the police department gives written authorization for the
release of the animal from quarantine. Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions, such animal may be euthanized with the permission of the police
department for the purpose of a laboratory examination for rabies using the
fluorescent rabies antibody test in an approved public health laboratory. (Ord.
1824, 6-16-2015)
5-5.5: ANIMALS IN CONTACT WITH RABID ANIMALS:
Any animal of a species subject to rabies which has been bitten by a known
rabid or suspected rabid animal or has been in intimate contact with a rabid or
suspected rabid animal shall be quarantined by the owner in a place and manner
approved by the police department for a period of six (6) months or destroyed,
provided, however, that the following alternatives are permitted in the case of
dogs and cats: if the dog or cat has been vaccinated against rabies within two
(2) years but not less than thirty (30) days with a live virus vaccine, or
within one year but not less than thirty (30) days with a killed virus vaccine,
as those types of vaccines are defined in section 2606 et seq., of chapter 17
of the California administrative code, the dog or cat may be revaccinated in a
manner approved by the police department and quarantined in a place and manner
approved by the police department for a period of thirty (30) days. The
provisions of this chapter concerning quarantine shall also apply to the
quarantine of animals pursuant to this section. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-5.6: VIOLATION OF QUARANTINE:
When any animal is quarantined by the police department, it shall be unlawful
for the owner of the animal to violate the quarantine by removing said animal
from the premises where it is quarantined, allowing it to run at large,
destroying it without authorization from the police department, concealing it
from the police department or disobeying any of the quarantine restrictions
which have been imposed by the police department. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
ARTICLE VI. PIGEONS
SECTION:
5-6.1: Conditional Use Permit Required
5-6.2: Applicability
5-6.3: Leg Banding
5-6.4: Number Allowed
5-6.5: Structure/Loft Requirements
5-6.6: Loft Maintenance
5-6.7: Release And Feeding Of Pigeons
5-6.8: Number Of Squabs Allowed; Breeding Of Pigeons
5-6.9: Association Membership
5-6.10: Limitations
5-6.11: Association Membership Documentation
5-6.12: City Right Of Entry
5-6.13: Violation
5-6.1: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
Pigeons which have been selectively bred for specific racing, homing, or
sporting purposes shall be subject to the limitations of this article and shall
only be permitted in residential zoning districts upon obtaining a conditional
use permit from the city council according to chapter 21, article 604 of this
code. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this article shall apply only to parcels six thousand (6,000)
square feet and over, which are located within a residential zoning district.
(Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.3: LEG BANDING:
All racing, homing, or sporting pigeons shall be banded with a leg band. The
"leg band" is defined as a seamless band, made of a durable material, which
designates the national organization with which the bird is registered, and
indicates the year of birth of the bird. Birds which are not banded shall not
be considered to be racing, homing, or sporting pigeons. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.4: NUMBER ALLOWED:
The number of racing, homing, or sporting pigeons shall not cumulatively exceed
one bird for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of lot area for lots under
ten thousand (10,000) square feet in size and two (2) birds for every one
thousand (1,000) square feet of lot area for lots in excess of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.5: STRUCTURE/LOFT REQUIREMENTS:
The structure ("loft") housing the racing, homing, or sporting pigeons shall
comply with setback, height, and lot coverage limitations in the underlying
zone. The loft shall be set back a minimum distance of ten feet (10') from
residential structures on the site to provide adequate distance for clean and
sanitary loft maintenance, and a minimum distance of twenty feet (20') from the
property line of any adjacent parcel when there are no more than twenty (20)
birds. The minimum distance from the property lines shall increase one foot
(1') for every one bird over twenty (20) in number. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.6: LOFT MAINTENANCE:
Any loft used for housing the racing, homing, or sporting pigeons shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.7: RELEASE AND FEEDING OF PIGEONS:
All racing, homing, or sporting pigeons shall be confined to the loft, except
for limited periods necessary for exercise, training, and competition. At no
time shall pigeons be allowed to perch or linger on the buildings or property
of others. Objects shall not be thrown at the birds during their training or
exercise. All birds shall be fed within the confines of the loft. (Ord. 1824,
6-16-2015)
5-6.8: NUMBER OF SQUABS ALLOWED; BREEDING OF PIGEONS:
Not more than twelve (12) squabs over six (6) weeks old shall be permitted to
be kept or maintained or raised on the property where pigeons are allowed in a
residential zoning district. The squabs shall be counted in the cumulative
total of pigeons allowed on the property by this article. Breeding of pigeons
shall be incidental to the keeping of pigeons for racing, homing, or sporting
and the breeding of pigeons for commercial purposes shall be prohibited. (Ord.
1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.9: ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP:
Owners of racing, homing, or sporting pigeons are required to be current
members of a nationally recognized racing, homing, or sporting pigeon
association. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.10: LIMITATIONS:
The limitations set forth in this article shall be deemed minimum limitations
required for the keeping of pigeons as provided for herein. The city may, as a
condition to issuance of the permit required in
chapter 21, article 604 of this code set forth additional requirements in said
permit as may be necessary to maintain the health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizens. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.11: ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP DOCUMENTATION:
The applicant shall provide documentation of current membership in a nationally
recognized racing, homing, or sporting pigeon association with the conditional
use permit application. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.12: CITY RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The city shall have the right to enter the property for verification of
conditional use permit compliance at any time. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-6.13: VIOLATION:
The conditional use permit may be revoked by the city council upon violation of
any condition, regulation, or limitation of the permit issued, unless such
violation is corrected within ten (10) days of notice of such violation. Any
permit may be revoked for any violation. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
ARTICLE VII. VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
5-7.1: Violations; Penalties
5-7.1: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Administrative Citation: Upon a finding by the city official or
representative vested with the authority to enforce the various provisions of
this chapter that a violation exists, he or she may issue an administrative
citation and proceed with enforcement pursuant to chapter 2, article XIV of
this code. The administrative fines shall be as follows:
      1.   A fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
violation;
      2.   A fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
violation of the same provision within one year; or
      3.   A fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
additional violation of the same provision within one year, to a maximum of
three (3) such violations.
   B.   Misdemeanor/Infraction: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor unless the city makes a
determination to prosecute as an infraction with the concurrence of the city
attorney. Upon conviction each person shall be subject to fine and/or
imprisonment pursuant to section
1-9, and subsections
2-144A and B of this code. A person who owns or is in charge of or controls or
who possesses an animal who permits, allows, or causes the dog to run, stray,
be uncontrolled or in any manner be in, upon or at large upon a public street,
sidewalk, park or other public property or in or upon the premises or private
property of another person is guilty of a misdemeanor if said animal bites,
attacks, or causes injury to any human being or other animal.
   C.   Separate Offense: Each day that any provision of this chapter is
violated is a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as a
separate and distinct offense.
   D.   Costs Of Enforcement: In addition to any other penalties or fines
provided for in this chapter, any reasonable costs incurred by the city in
seizing, impounding, and confining any dangerous animal may be charged and
recovered against the owner.
   E.   Infraction: Except as provided for in subsection B of this section,
violation of any of the provisions covered in this chapter may be investigated
and punished as an infraction. An administrative citation may be issued in lieu
of filing a criminal case. Each day a violation continues may be investigated
and regarded as a new and separate offense.
      1.   The punishment upon conviction may be:
         a.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation;
         b.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation of the same provision within one year; or
         c.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
additional violation of the same provision within one year, to a maximum of
three (3) such violations.
      2.   For purposes of this section, bail forfeiture shall be deemed to be
a conviction of the offense charged.
      3.   In addition to any other penalties or fines provided for in this
chapter, any reasonable costs incurred by the city in seizing, impounding, and
confining any dangerous animal may be charged and recovered against the owner.
   F.   Misdemeanor: Four (4) or more violations of the same section of this
chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be investigated according to
subsection B of this section. Each additional day the violations continue
unabated shall be regarded as new and separate offenses.
   G.   Civil Action: The city attorney, or an attorney hired for such purposes
by and at the request of the city council, may institute an action in any court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain, enjoin, or abate the condition found to
be in violation of the provisions of this chapter, or state codes specifically
adopted by reference, as provided by law, and the city shall be entitled to its
attorney fees and costs.
   H.   Remedies Not To Supplant Procedures: These remedies shall not supplant
or replace the procedures concerning dangerous animals as specified elsewhere
in this chapter.
   I.   Allocation Of Fees And Fines Collected: All fees and the city's share
of all fines collected shall be used only to fund the implementation and
enforcement of the city's animal control program. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
ARTICLE VIII. ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION
SECTION:
5-8.1: Established
5-8.2: Composition
5-8.3: Compensation
5-8.4: Term Of Office; Removal
5-8.5: Vacancies
5-8.6: Appointment Of Chairperson And Vice Chairperson
5-8.7: Term Of Officers
5-8.8: Meetings And Records
5-8.9: Quorum
5-8.10: General Powers And Duties Of Commission
5-8.1: ESTABLISHED:
An animal control commission is established in and for the city of Porterville.
The animal control commission shall serve in an advisory capacity to the city
council. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-8.2: COMPOSITION:
The animal control commission shall consist of five (5) members who shall be
residents of the city of Porterville. Commissioners shall be appointed by the
city council at its complete discretion by a majority vote. Members of the
commission shall be representative of a cross section of the community. (Ord.
1824, 6-16-2015)
5-8.3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the animal control commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-8.4: TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL:
The term of office shall be four (4) years with terms staggered to prevent
concurrent expiration of terms. All commission members shall serve at the
pleasure of the city council and may be removed by a majority vote of the city
council at any time and for any reason. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-8.5: VACANCIES:
Vacancies, occurring otherwise than by expiration of the terms, shall be filled
by appointment by the city council as soon as possible; such appointee is to
serve for the unexpired term of the vacant office. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-8.6: APPOINTMENT OF CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON:
The animal control commission shall appoint one of its members chairperson, and
one of them vice chairperson. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-8.7: TERM OF OFFICERS:
The officers thus appointed shall serve one year, until their successors in
office have been appointed by the animal control commission. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-
2015)
5-8.8: MEETINGS AND RECORDS:
The animal control commission shall hold meetings regularly as determined by
the commission and shall designate the time and place thereof. The commission
may hold as many meetings as determined necessary for the performance of the
duties prescribed in this chapter. The meetings shall be held in compliance
with the Brown act and all applicable laws, and the meetings and records of
attendance shall be public. The commission shall adopt its own rules of
procedure and keep a record of its proceedings. A record of attendance shall be
kept regularly and reported to the city council at least once per year. Members
are expected to have at least seventy five percent (75%) attendance based upon
the commission's regular meeting schedule (e.g., 9 out of 12 meetings if held
monthly, and 3 out of 4 if held quarterly). Members who fail to meet the
attendance requirement automatically vacate their seat and the vacancies shall
be filled per section
5-8.5 of this article. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-8.9: QUORUM:
Three (3) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
5-8.10: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
The animal control commission shall:
   A.   Advise the city council and staff on any matters concerning animal
control and shelter programs;
   B.   Make recommendations to the city council and staff concerning
regulations affecting animals and the care, control, and treatment of animals;
   C.   Make recommendations to the city council and staff to strengthen the
city's animal control and shelter programs;
   D.   Engage in a long term planning process through which it identifies
major priorities and provides recommendations for the city council for policies
and procedures on animal control and shelter program operations;
   E.   Promote public awareness of the goals and operations of the animal
shelter(s) and to enhance community relations with respect to animal control
program operations;
   F.   To advise and assist the city council and staff in conducting public
education and outreach programs to city residents regarding animal owner
responsibility for licensing, spaying and neutering, and proper care of
animals;
   G.   To review and recommend proactive enforcement programs that will result
in reducing cases of animal overpopulation, neglect, abuse, and public
nuisance;
   H.   To review and provide recommendations to the city council and staff on
all proposed amendments to this chapter;
   I.   Serve as a sounding board for staff to review their plans and ideas;
and
   J.   Act on any matters referred by the city council or staff in accordance
with the instructions provided with the said referrals. (Ord. 1824, 6-16-2015)
CHAPTER 5A
ARTS COMMISSION
ARTICLE I. FORMATION OF AN ARTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
5A-1: Established
5A-2: Composition
5A-3: Compensation
5A-4: Term Of Office; Removal
5A-5: Vacancies
5A-6: Meetings And Records
5A-7: Quorum
5A-8: General Powers And Duties Of Commission
5A-1: ESTABLISHED:
An Arts Commission is established in and for the City of Porterville. The Arts
Commission shall serve in an advisory capacity to the City Council. (Ord. 1797,
8-20-2013)
5A-2: COMPOSITION:
The Arts Commission shall consist of five (5) members, plus one youth member.
Commissioners shall be appointed by the City Council at its complete
discretion. Members of the commission shall represent four (4) areas of arts:
a) theatrical/performing arts; b) visual/graphic; c) music; d) youth. (Ord.
1841, 5-2-2017)
5A-3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Arts Commission shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 1797, 8-
20-2013)
5A-4: TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL:
The term of office shall be three (3) years with terms staggered to prevent
concurrent expiration of terms with the exception of the youth representative.
All commission members shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council and may
be removed by a majority vote of the City Council at any time and for any
reason. (Ord. 1797, 8-20-2013; Ord. 1841, 5-2-2017)
5A-5: VACANCIES:
Vacancies, occurring otherwise than by expiration of the terms, shall be filled
by appointment as soon as possible; such appointee to serve for the unexpired
term of the vacant office. (Ord. 1841, 5-2-2017)
5A-6: MEETINGS AND RECORDS:
The Arts Commission shall hold meetings regularly as determined by the
commission and shall designate the time and place thereof. The meetings shall
be held in compliance with the Brown Act and all applicable laws, and the
meetings and records of attendance shall be public. The commission shall keep a
record of its proceedings. A record of attendance shall be kept regularly and
reported to the City Council at least one time per year. Members are expected
to have seventy five percent (75%) attendance based on the commission's regular
meeting schedule (e.g., 9 out of 12 meetings if held monthly, and 3 out of 4 if
held quarterly). Members who fail to meet the attendance requirement
automatically vacate their seat and the vacancies shall be filled per section
5A-5 of this article. (Ord. 1797, 8-20-2013)
5A-7: QUORUM:
A presence of a majority of the members (not including the student/youth
member) of the established number of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business. (Ord. 1841, 5-2-2017)
5A-8: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
The Arts Commission shall:
   A.   Make recommendations to the City Council regarding development and
promotion of practices and policies pertaining to the arts, keeping in mind the
adoption of policy is the prerogative of the City Council.
   B.   Foster the development and enjoyment of visual, cultural, performing,
and other arts in the City of Porterville.
   C.   Work cooperatively with City entities and other advisory commissions to
include an arts element in as many areas of City planning and development as
possible.
   D.   Develop and submit a work plan to the Council on an annual basis
detailing the goals and objectives of the Arts Commission over the next year,
five (5) years and/or twenty (20) years. (Ord. 1797, 8-20-2013)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL 1
SECTION:
6-1: Riding On Sidewalks
6-2: Penalty For Violation Of Chapter
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 21, section
  304.08 of this code.
6-1: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
No bicycle shall be operated upon any public sidewalk. (Ord. 1537 § B21, 8-6-
1996; Ord. 1608, 3-19-2002)
6-2: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER:
In addition to the penalty set forth in section
1-9 of this code, the police department of the city, or any of the members
thereof, may impound and retain possession of any bicycle operated in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, and retain possession of the same
until the license provided for in section
6-3 of this chapter is obtained by the owner of such bicycle. (Ord. 1537 § B21,
8-6-1996)
ARTICLE II. LICENSES
SECTION:
6-3: Required
6-4: Removing, Destroying, Etc., Plate, Seal Or Registration Card
6-3: REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use a bicycle propelled
wholly or in part by muscular power upon any of the streets, alleys or public
highways of the city, without first obtaining a license therefor pursuant to
state Vehicle Code section 39000 et seq. (Ord. 1537 § B21, 8-6-1996)
6-4: REMOVING, DESTROYING, ETC., PLATE, SEAL OR REGISTRATION CARD:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously remove, destroy,
mutilate or alter any license plate, seal or registration card during the time
in which such license plate, seal or registration card is operative; provided,
however, that nothing in this article shall prohibit the police department from
engraving numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no serial number can be
found, or on which such number is illegible or insufficient for identification
purposes. (Ord. 1537 § B21, 8-6-1996)
CHAPTER 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-1: Adoption
7-2: Copies On File
7-3: Building Code Amendments
7-3.1: Reserved
7-3.1.1: Reserved
7-3.2: Building Permit Fees
7-3.3: Temporary Structures
7-3.4: Penalty For Violation
7-3.5: Building Official
7-3.6: Severability
7-1: ADOPTION:
   A.   Adoption of the 2022 Edition of the California Administrative Code
Title 24 Part 1; 2022 California Building Code Part 2, Volumes 1 and 2; the
2022 California Residential Code Title 24 Part 2.5; the 2022 Energy Code Title
24 Part 6; the 2022 Edition of the California Historical Buildings Code Title
24 Part 8; the 2022 Edition of the California Existing Buildings Code Title 24
Part 10; and the 2022 Edition of the California Referenced Standards Code Title
24 Part 12.
   B.   That certain codes in book form to which more particular reference is
herein made, regulating the construction, erection, alteration, repair,
removal, demolition, conversion, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance
of buildings in the City of Porterville, together with the amendments thereof,
herein specifically set forth, together with the penalty for violation herein
set forth to be known as the Building Codes compiled by and adopted by the
International Code Council, Inc., together with the following appendixes: J, O,
and P of the 2022 California Building Code; AH, AJ, AX, and AZ of the 2022
California Residential Code Part 2.5; thereto are hereby adopted and enacted by
the Council of the City of Porterville, to all intents and purposes and to the
same effect as if each and every sentence, paragraph, word and clause in said
codes mentioned are referred to herein or therein were fully and specifically
set forth herein, with the exception of the penalty provision thereof. (Ord.
1893, 11-15-2022)
7-2: COPIES ON FILE:
Reference is hereby made to one (1) copy of said California Building Code, 2022
Edition, compiled by and adopted by the International Conference of Building
Officials, heretofore filed in the office of the Building Official of the City
of Porterville and said California Building Code is by reference adopted herein
as provided by law. (Ord. 1893, 11-15-2022)
7-3: BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS:
There are no local amendments to the 2022 Codes. The City of Porterville
reserves the right to amend the Codes mentioned herein by way of public hearing
and Ordinance adoption at a later date if deemed necessary. (Ord. 1893, 11-15-
2022)
7-3.1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1521, 11-21-1995)
7-3.1.1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1521, 11-21-1995)
7-3.2: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees shall be fixed by resolution of the City Council. (Ord.
1066 § A, 12-3-1974; Ord. 1148 § A, 7-18-1978; Ord. 1212 § A, 8-5-1980; Ord.
1295 § A, 2-7-1984; Ord. 1371 § A, 1-6-1987; Ord. 1422 § A, 11-21-1989)
7-3.3: TEMPORARY STRUCTURES:
   A.   For purposes of this article the word "structure" shall include any
building, tent, canopy, or any other type of construction approved by the City
Council.
   B.   Upon written application to the City Council, the City Council is
hereby empowered to issue a permit enabling an applicant in time of stress or
emergency or in conjunction with development of residential, commercial, or
industrial projects, to erect, construct, maintain and utilize a temporary
structure within the City of Porterville.
   C.   Said permit so issued shall provide the type of construction to be
permitted; the location of said structure; the size of said structure; the
period of time that said structure may be utilized; and provisions that said
structure shall be demolished at the termination of said permit and all other
requirements and conditions deemed necessary or expedient by the City Council.
   D.   In the event the applicant fails to satisfy all conditions set forth by
the City Council in the permit, the right to construct, maintain and utilize
the temporary structure may be terminated immediately by action of the City
Council; and, in addition thereto, a violation of the conditions of said permit
is hereby declared to be unlawful.
   E.   Nothing herein shall permit an applicant to make use of any structure
in violation of any zoning law, ordinance or regulation of the City. (Ord. 1066
§ A, 12-3-1974; Ord. 1148 § A, 7-18-1978; Ord. 1212 § A, 8-5-1980; Ord. 1295 §
A, 2-7-1984; Ord. 1371 § A, 1-6-1987; Ord. 1422 § A, 11-21-1989; Ord. 1476 § 1,
7-21-1992)
7-3.4: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or equip, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure in the City of Porterville, or cause the same to be done
contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this article or of the
building code above adopted by reference, together with the amendments thereto;
and any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
article or of said building code, as amended, shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violations of the provisions of this article or of the California Building
Code, 2022 Edition, is committed or permitted; and upon conviction of any such
violation, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the City or County jail for a
period of not exceeding six (6) months or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1893, 11-15-2022)
7-3.5: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The Public Works Director of the City, or his designee, shall have all the
power and authority of and shall be charged with the performance of all duties
and functions of a building official who administers and enforces all City
codes related to building, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, swimming pool and
solar energy construction work. (Ord. 1537 § B22, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-
17-2002)
7-3.6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of this Ordinance that can be given effect without the invalid
provision of application, and to this end the provisions of this Ordinance are
severable. (Ord. 1893, 11-15-2022)
ARTICLE IA. MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-4: Adoption
7-4.1: Heating And Cooling Permit Fees
7-4.2: Severability
7-4: ADOPTION:
Adoption of the 2022 edition of the California Mechanical Code, title 24, part
4 and referenced standards.
   A.   That certain code in book form to which more particular reference is
hereinafter made regulating the installation and maintenance of heating,
ventilating, cooling, and refrigeration systems, to be known and referred to as
the California Mechanical Code along with the referenced standards is hereby
adopted and enacted by the Council of the City of Porterville as an ordinance
of the City of Porterville, to all intents and purposes and to the same effect
as if each and every sentence, comma, paragraph, word, phrase, and clause in
said code mentioned or referred to therein or herein were and each thereof was
fully and specifically set forth herein.
   B.   Reference is hereby made to one (1) copy of the 2022 edition of the
California Mechanical Code published by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials filed with the building official of the City
of Porterville and said code is by reference adopted herein as provided by law.
(Ord. 1861, 11-5-2019; Ord. 1894, 11-15-2022)
7-4.1: HEATING AND COOLING PERMIT FEES:
Heating and cooling permit fees shall be fixed by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 1069 § A, 12-3-1974; Ord. 1150 § A, 7-18-1978; Ord. 1211 § A, 8-
5-1980; Ord. 1372 § A, 1-6-1987)
7-4.2: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of this article that can be given effect without the invalid
provision of application, and to this end the provisions of this article are
severable. (Ord. 1861, 11-5-2019)
ARTICLE II. PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7-6: Adoption
7-6.1: Severability
7-6.2: Reserved
7-7: When Check Valves Required; Standards Of Construction
7-8: Nonconforming Buildings To Comply With Section 7-7
7-6: ADOPTION:
Adoption of the 2022 edition of the California Plumbing Code title 24 part 5,
the referenced standards, and appendixes C, H, and M.
   A.   That certain code in book form to which more particular reference is
hereinafter made, regulating the business of plumbing, and the installation of
plumbing fixtures and appliances, to be known and referred to as the California
Plumbing Code, is hereby adopted and enacted by the Council of the City of
Porterville as an ordinance of the City of Porterville, to all intents and
purposes and to the same effect as if each and every sentence, comma,
paragraph, word, phrase, and clause in said code mentioned or referred to
therein or herein were and each thereof was fully and specifically set forth
herein.
   B.   Reference is hereby made to one (1) copy of the 2022 edition of the
California Plumbing Code, published by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials filed with the building official of the City
of Porterville and said code is by reference adopted herein as provided by law.
(Ord. 1895, 11-15-2022)
7-6.1: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of this article that can be given effect without the invalid
provision of application, and to this end the provisions of this article are
severable. (Ord. 1895, 11-15-2022)
7-6.2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1297 § B, 2-7-1984)
7-7: WHEN CHECK VALVES REQUIRED; STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
Where any part of a building, which is being serviced or served by the sewer
system, is lower than the sewer line which serves the building, the owner shall
install a check valve or back sewer valve in order to prevent sewage from
entering or flowing into such lower area or portion of the building being
served by the sewer line.
The check valve shall have a cast iron body, with bearing parts of noncorrosive
metal or material, and be so constructed and installed in order to ensure a
positive mechanical seal and remain closed except when discharging sewage or
waste. Valve access covers shall be of the bolted type, with gaskets, and every
valve shall be installed in an approved manner so as to be readily accessible
at all times and shall strictly conform to the specifications of the Plumbing
Code. (Ord. 627 § 1)
7-8: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS TO COMPLY WITH SECTION 7-7:
The public health and safety requires that all nonconforming connections or
uses now existing in buildings or structures be remodeled or improved and check
valves or back water valves be installed in order to comply with the sanitary
provisions and requirements of the City, and section
7-7 of this article shall apply to all existing or hereafter installed plumbing
connections. (Ord. 627 § 2)
ARTICLE III. ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-9: Adoption
7-9.1: Severability
7-10: Amendments (Rep. by Ord. 1773, 12-7-2010)
7-11: Permit Fees
7-9: ADOPTION:
Adoption of the 2022 edition of the California Electrical Code title 24 part 3.
   A.   That certain code in book form to which more particular reference is
hereinafter made, regulating the business of electrical, and the installation
of electrical fixtures and appliances, to be known and referred to as the
California Electrical Code, is hereby adopted and enacted by the Council of the
City of Porterville as an ordinance of the City of Porterville, to all intents
and purposes and to the same effect as if each and every sentence, comma,
paragraph, word, phrase, and clause in said code mentioned or referred to
therein or herein were and each thereof was fully and specifically set forth
herein.
   B.   Reference is hereby made to one (1) copy of the 2022 edition of the
California Electrical Code, published by BNi Publications, Inc. filed in the
office of the building official of the City of Porterville, and such code, to
wit: the 2022 edition of the California Electrical Code published by the BNi
Publications, Inc., as aforesaid now on file with the building official of the
City of Porterville, is hereby adopted by reference as the Electrical Code of
the City. (Ord. 1896, 11-15-2022)
7-9.1: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of this article that can be given effect without the invalid
provision of application, and to this end the provisions of this article are
severable. (Ord. 1896, 11-15-2022)
7-10: AMENDMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 1773, 12-7-2010)
7-11: PERMIT FEES:
Any person desiring an electrical permit shall, at the time of filing an
application therefor, pay a fee as fixed by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 742 § 1; Ord. 869 § A, 1-17-1967; Ord. 1022 § A, 6-6-1972; Ord. 1067 § A,
12-3-1974; Ord. 1151 § A, 7-18-1978)
ARTICLE IV. GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE
SECTION:
7-12: Adoption
7-12.1: Severability
7-12: ADOPTION:
Adoption of the 2022 edition of the California Green Building Standards Code,
title 24, part 11 and the mandatory portions of appendix A4, appendix A5, and
appendix A6.1 with the voluntary portions of said appendices remaining
voluntary.
   A.   That certain code in book form to which more particular reference is
hereinafter made encouraging sustainable construction practices, to be known
and referred to as the California Green Building Standards Code is hereby
adopted and enacted by the Council of the City of Porterville as an ordinance
of the City of Porterville, to all intents and purposes and to the same effect
as if each and every sentence, comma, paragraph, word, phrase, and clause in
said code mentioned or referred to therein or herein were and each thereof was
fully and specifically set forth herein.
   B.   Reference is hereby made to one (1) copy of the 2022 edition of the
California Green Building Standards Code published by the International Code
Council Commission filed with the building official of the City of Porterville
and said code is by reference adopted herein as provided by law. (Ord. 1897,
11- 1-2022)
7-12.1: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of this article that can be given effect without the invalid
provision of application, and to this end the provisions of this article are
severable. (Ord. 1897, 11-1-2022)
ARTICLE V. RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-13: Definitions
7-14: Purpose
7-15: Applicability
7-16: Solar Energy System Requirements
7-17: Duties Of City In Reviewing Small Residential Rooftop Solar Energy System
Applications
7-18: Permit Review And Inspection Requirements
7-13: DEFINITIONS:
   ASSOCIATION: A nonprofit corporation or unincorporated association created
for the purpose of managing a common interest development.
   COMMON INTEREST DEVELOPMENT: Any of the following:
   A.   A community apartment project;
   B.   A condominium project;
   C.   A planned development;
   D.   A stock cooperative.
   ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL: The utilization of one or more of the following
approved methods:
   A.   E-mail;
   B.   Facsimile;
   C.   The internet.
   REASONABLE RESTRICTIONS (On A Solar Energy System): Those restrictions that
do not significantly increase the cost of the system or significantly decrease
its efficiency or specified performance, or that allows for an alternative
system or comparable cost, efficiency, and energy conservation benefits.
   RESTRICTIONS THAT DO NOT SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE THE COST OF THE SYSTEM OR
DECREASE ITS EFFICIENCY OR SPECIFIED PERFORMANCE: A. For water systems or solar
swimming pool heating systems: An amount exceeding ten percent (10%) of the
cost of the system, but in no case more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
or decreasing the efficiency of the solar energy system by an amount exceeding
ten percent (10%), as originally specified and proposed.
   B.   For photovoltaic systems: An amount not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) over the system cost as originally specified and proposed, or a
decrease in system efficiency of an amount exceeding ten percent (10%) as
originally specified and proposed.
   SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: All of the following:
   A.   A solar energy system that is no larger than ten (10) kilowatts
alternating current nameplate rating or thirty (30) kilowatts thermal.
   B.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
city and all state and city, health and safety standards.
   C.   A solar energy system that is installed on a single- or duplex-family
dwelling.
   D.   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum legal
building height as defined by the city.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: Either of the following:
   A.   Any solar collector or other solar energy device whose primary purpose
is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for
space heating, space cooling, electric generation, or water heating.
   B.   Any structural design feature of a building, whose primary purpose is
to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for
electricity generation, space heating or cooling, or for water heating.
   SPECIFIC, ADVERSE IMPACT: A significant, quantifiable, direct, and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and written public health
or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete. (Ord. 1829, 11-17-2015)
7-14: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to adopt an expedited, streamlined solar
permitting process that complies with state law and provides for timely and
cost effective installation of small residential rooftop solar energy systems.
This article encourages the use of solar energy systems by removing
unreasonable barriers and minimizing costs to property owners and the city to
install solar energy systems. This article allows the city to achieve these
goals while protecting the public health and safety. (Ord. 1829, 11-17-2015)
7-15: APPLICABILITY:
This article applies to the permitting of all small residential rooftop solar
energy systems in the city. Small residential rooftop solar energy systems
legally established or permitted prior to the effective date hereof are not
subject to the requirements of this article unless physical modifications or
alterations are undertaken that materially change the size, type, or components
of a small rooftop energy system in such a way as to require new permitting.
Routine operation and maintenance or like kind replacements shall not require a
permit. (Ord. 1829, 11-17-2015)
7-16: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All solar energy systems shall meet applicable health and safety
standards and requirements imposed by the state and the city of Porterville.
   B.   Solar energy systems for heating water in single-family residences and
for heating water in commercial or swimming pool applications shall be
certified by an accredited listing agency as defined by the California plumbing
and mechanical codes.
   C.   Solar energy systems for producing electricity shall meet all
applicable codes, the Institute Of Electrical And Electronics Engineers, and
accredited testing laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories and, where
applicable, rules of the public utilities commission regarding safety and
reliability. (Ord. 1829, 11-17-2015)
7-17: DUTIES OF CITY IN REVIEWING SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   All documents required by the city to be completed for the submission
of an expedited solar energy system application shall be made available on the
publicly accessible city of Porterville website.
   B.   Electronic submittal of the required permit applications and documents
by e-mail, the internet, or facsimile shall be made available to all small
residential rooftop solar energy system permit applicants.
An applicant's electronic signature shall be accepted on all forms,
applications, and other documents submitted for permit in lieu of a wet
signature. Safety and performance standards established by the California
electrical code shall provide an electronic "notarized" copy of proof of
ownership of said property and the contractor utilized by the applicant shall
provide proof of current contractor's license and insurance.
Applicants are required to appear in person at the time of permit issuance.
Permits will not be issued electronically and shall be available for issuance
each business day during regular hours of operation.
   C.   The city of Porterville engineering and building division shall adopt a
standard plan and checklist of all requirements with which small residential
rooftop solar energy systems shall comply in order to be eligible for expedited
review. This standard plan and checklist will be updated and reviewed
periodically by the engineering and building division and revised if necessary
to comply with all applicable requirements.
   D.   The small residential rooftop solar energy system permit process,
standard plan(s), and checklist(s) shall conform to the most current state
codes.
   E.   All fees prescribed for the permitting of small residential rooftop
solar energy systems must comply with Government Code sections 65850.55, 66015,
66016, and state Health And Safety Code section 17951. (Ord. 1829, 11-17-2015)
7-18: PERMIT REVIEW AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The city of Porterville engineering and building division shall adopt
an administrative, nondiscretionary review process to expedite approval of
small residential rooftop solar energy systems within thirty (30) days of the
adoption hereof. The engineering and building division shall issue a building
permit or other nondiscretionary permit the same day for over the counter
application or within one to three (3) business days for electronic application
of receipt of a complete application that meets the requirements of the
approved administrative process and standard plan. The building official may
require an applicant to apply for a use permit if the official finds, based on
substantial evidence, that the solar energy system could have a specific,
adverse impact upon the public health and safety. Such decisions may be
appealed to the city of Porterville building appeals board.
   B.   Review of the application shall be limited to the building official's
review of whether the application meets local, state, and federal health and
safety requirements.
   C.   If a use permit is required, the building official may deny the
application for the use permit if the official makes written findings upon
substantive evidence in the record that the proposed installation would have a
specific, adverse impact upon public health or safety and there is no feasible
method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid, as defined, the adverse impact.
Such findings shall include the basis for the rejection of the potential
feasible alternative for preventing the adverse impact. Such decisions may be
appealed to the city of Porterville building appeals board.
   D.   Any condition imposed on an application shall be designed to mitigate
the specific, adverse impact upon health and safety at the lowest possible
cost.
   E.   "A feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific,
adverse impact" includes, but is not limited to, any cost effective method,
condition, or mitigation imposed by the city on another similarly situated
application in a prior successful application for a permit. The city shall use
its best efforts to ensure that the selected method, condition, or mitigation
meets the conditions of state law, including, but not limited to, subparagraphs
(A) and (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of section 714 of the Civil
Code defining restrictions that do not significantly increase the cost of the
system or decrease its efficiency or specified performance.
   F.   The city shall not condition approval of an application on the approval
of an association, meaning a nonprofit corporation or unincorporated
association created for the purpose of managing a common interest development,
as the term "association" is defined in section 4080 of the Civil Code.
   G.   If an application is deemed incomplete, a written correction notice
detailing all deficiencies in the application and any additional information or
documentation required to be eligible for expedited permit issuance shall be
sent to, or given to, the applicant for resubmission.
   H.   Only one inspection shall be required and performed by the engineering
and building division for small residential rooftop solar energy systems
eligible for expedited review. The city of Porterville engineering and building
division has the authority/responsibility to perform safety inspections
regarding ingress and egress on roof clearances regarding solar panels at
rooftops and at leading edges. The engineering and building division will also
inspect for proper flashing installation requirements, installation of smoke
alarm(s) and carbon monoxide detectors, and that the requirements of SB 407 for
the replacement of noncompliant plumbing fixtures are being met.
   I.   The inspection shall be done in a timely manner and should include
consolidated inspections. An inspection will be scheduled within two (2)
business days of a request being received and shall be assigned a two (2) hour
inspection window.
   J.   If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails inspection, a
subsequent inspection is required and, henceforth, shall be held to the same
requirements as all inspections outside of the purview of this article. (Ord.
1829, 11-17-2015)
ARTICLE VI. MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-25: Definitions
7-26: Wide, Overweight Or Overlong Permit; Required; Exception
7-27: Wide, Overweight Or Overlong Permit; Application; Inspection Fee
7-28: Wide, Overweight Or Overlong Permit; Contents Of Application
7-29: Building Relocation; Inspection; Compliance With Building Regulations
7-30: Building Relocation; Building Permit; Bond Required Prerequisite To
Issuance
7-31: Building Relocation; Building Permit; Cash Deposit In Lieu Of Bond;
Conditions Generally Of Bond
7-32: Building Relocation; Denial Of Permit
7-33: Building Relocation; Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit
7-34: Liability Insurance; Required
7-35: Liability Insurance; Certificate Of Insurance In Lieu Of Filing Insurance
Policy
7-36: Liability Insurance; Inure To Use Of City; Conditions Generally; Amount
7-37: Supervision Of Mover
7-38: Time Designated By City Engineer
7-39: Notice Required Before Commencing Work
7-40: Default In Performance Of Term Or Condition Of Permit
7-41: Approval Of Streets Over Which Building To Be Moved
7-42: Moved Buildings Placed On Foundation Within Sixty Days
7-43: Cleanliness, Excavation Of Old Premises
7-44: Obstructing Streets
7-45: Lights And Barricades
7-46: Removal Of Wires And Structural Supports
7-47: Payment Of Costs By Mover For Wire Removal
7-48: Removal Of Trees; Notice Required
7-49: Removal Of Trees; Authorization
7-50: Removal Of Trees; Payment Of Costs
7-51: Damage To Streets Or Public Property
7-25: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector of the city. (Ord. 688 § 1)
7-26: WIDE, OVERWEIGHT OR OVERLONG PERMIT; REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
No person shall move any building over, along or across any highway, street or
alley in the city without first obtaining a permit from the city engineer;
provided, however, that a permit will not be required for moving the following:
   A.   Temporary sheds or other structures used by contractors in conjunction
with construction work.
   B.   Other small and unimportant structures when approved by the building
inspector. (Ord. 1537 § B24, 8-6-1996)
7-27: WIDE, OVERWEIGHT OR OVERLONG PERMIT; APPLICATION; INSPECTION FEE:
Any person desiring a permit as required in section
7-26 of this article shall file with the city engineer an application therefor
in writing on a form to be furnished by the city. The applicant shall pay a fee
as fixed by resolution of the city council. The fee shall be paid upon filing
of the application. (Ord. 1537 § B25, 8-6-1996)
7-28: WIDE, OVERWEIGHT OR OVERLONG PERMIT; CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The application for the permit pursuant to section
7-26 of this article shall specify the following:
   A.   The character and size of the building to be moved.
   B.   The location from which and to which such building is to be moved.
   C.   The streets on, over or through which it is desired to move such
building.
   D.   The building permit number for purposes of relocating the building, if
the building is proposed to be located within the city. (Ord. 1537 § B26, 8-6-
1996)
7-29: BUILDING RELOCATION; INSPECTION; COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Prior to filing the application for the permit required in section
7-26 of this article, the building inspector shall inspect the building to
determine the general condition and shall, upon completion of such
investigation, set forth the requirements necessary to secure compliance with
the building ordinance, the zoning ordinance, the provisions of this code and
all other applicable ordinances and laws of the city. (Ord. 1537 § B27, 8-6-
1996)
7-30: BUILDING RELOCATION; BUILDING PERMIT; BOND REQUIRED PREREQUISITE TO
ISSUANCE:
The building official shall not issue a building permit for relocation unless
the applicant or his authorized agent first submits required plans and posts
with the building official a bond executed by such applicant, as principal, and
by a surety company authorized to do business in this state, as surety, or
makes a deposit as provided in section
7-31 of this article.
The surety bond required by this section shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   It shall be joint and several in form.
   B.   It shall name the city as obligee.
   C.   It shall be in an amount equal to the estimated cost plus ten percent
(10%) of the work required to be done in order to comply with all the
conditions of the relocation permit, such estimate to be made by the building
official. (Ord. 1537 § B28, 8-6-1996)
7-31: BUILDING RELOCATION; BUILDING PERMIT; CASH DEPOSIT IN LIEU OF BOND;
CONDITIONS GENERALLY OF BOND:
If a cash deposit is made instead of a surety bond, it shall also be equal to
the cost plus ten percent (10%) of such work. Such bond herein referred to in
section
7-30 of this article shall guarantee and ensure the complete performance of all
work required in the permit within a period of six (6) months from date of
issuance of the permit. (Ord. 716 § 2)
7-32: BUILDING RELOCATION; DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The building official shall not issue a building permit for relocation of any
building or structure which is so dilapidated, unsightly, or in such a
condition of deterioration or disrepair, that placing the building at the
proposed relocation site would substantially diminish the value of other
property or improvements within a radius of one thousand feet (1,000') from the
proposed relocation site. (Ord. 1537 § B29, 8-6-1996)
7-33: BUILDING RELOCATION; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
The building inspector, at any time, for sufficient cause, may revoke or
suspend any permit granted under this article. (Ord. 688 § 6)
7-34: LIABILITY INSURANCE; REQUIRED:
Every person moving a building in the city shall file with the city a liability
insurance policy issued by a solvent corporation holding a certificate of
authority to do insurance business in the state, which policy shall conform in
all respects to the requirements of this section. (Ord. 1537 § B30, 8-6-1996)
7-35: LIABILITY INSURANCE; CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE IN LIEU OF FILING INSURANCE
POLICY:
In lieu of filing the insurance policy referred to in the preceding section, a
certificate of insurance issued by an insurance corporation may be filed. The
certificate must show that a policy meeting the requirements of the preceding
section has been issued, and shall set forth the expiration date of such
policy. (Ord. 688 § 5)
7-36: LIABILITY INSURANCE; INURE TO USE OF CITY; CONDITIONS GENERALLY; AMOUNT:
The liability policy required in section
7-34 of this article shall run to the city for the use and benefit of any
person intended to be protected thereby and shall be conditioned on the payment
of any damage to public or private property and the payment for any damages or
losses resulting from any malfeasance, misfeasance, nonfeasance or negligence
in connection with any activities or conditions upon which the permit applied
for as required in section
7-26 of this article is granted, and shall also insure the person moving a
building against loss from the liability imposed by law for injury to, or death
of, any person, or damage to any property growing out of the moving of such
building, to the amount or limit of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
exclusive of interest and costs, on account of injury to, or death of, any one
person, and, subject to the same limit as respects injury to or death of one
person, of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) exclusive of interest and
costs, on account of moving any one building resulting in injury to or death of
more than one person, and of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for
damage to property of others, resulting from moving from any one building.
(Ord. 688 § 5)
7-37: SUPERVISION OF MOVER:
Every building which is moved on, over or through any public street, way or
park in the city shall be under the control of the mover and every such
building shall be moved in a careful manner and the work shall be prosecuted
with diligence and to the satisfaction and approval of the city engineer. This
section in no way relieves the person having charge of the moving of any
building of his obligation to furnish proper supervision. (Ord. 1537 § B31, 8-
6-1996)
7-38: TIME DESIGNATED BY CITY ENGINEER:
A time for moving the building within the city shall be set by the city
engineer and shall be during a period which will minimize interference with
normal traffic movement and will not otherwise endanger or inconvenience the
public unnecessarily. (Ord. 1537 § B32, 8-6-1996)
7-39: NOTICE REQUIRED BEFORE COMMENCING WORK:
Notice must be given by the person to whom the permit is issued, or his
representative, to both the public works department and the police department
of the city not less than twenty four (24) nor more than forty eight (48) hours
before the actual work of moving a building or structure is to commence. (Ord.
1537 § B33, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
7-40: DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE OF TERM OR CONDITION OF PERMIT:
Whenever a default has occurred in the performance of any term or condition of
any permit, written notice thereof shall be given to the permittee by the
building inspector, such notice to state the work to be done, the estimated
cost thereof, and the period of time deemed to be reasonably necessary to
complete such work. After receipt of such notice the permittee must, within the
time therein specified, either cause the work to be done or pay the city the
estimated cost of doing the work, as set forth in the notice, plus ten percent
(10%) of such estimated cost. Upon receipt of notice that the permittee has
deposited such money, the building inspector shall cause the required work to
be performed and completed. (Ord. 688 § 9)
7-41: APPROVAL OF STREETS OVER WHICH BUILDING TO BE MOVED:
The streets over which any building or structure is to be moved shall be
approved by the city engineer and the chief of police. (Ord. 1537 § B34, 8-6-
1996)
7-42: MOVED BUILDINGS PLACED ON FOUNDATION WITHIN SIXTY DAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as mover or the one causing the
moving to be done as owner of the real property or as owner of the building or
structure, to permit any building or structure which has been moved to remain
upon any real property in the city for more than sixty (60) days unless such
building or structure is attached to the ground by a proper foundation as
required by the building code of the city. (Ord. 688 § 11)
7-43: CLEANLINESS, EXCAVATION OF OLD PREMISES:
There shall be issued a demolition permit prior to moving a building or
buildings from lots within the city. Permittee shall remove all rubbish and
materials from the site and fill all excavations to existing grade leaving the
premises in a safe and sanitary condition. The sanitary sewer house service
shall be excavated at the property line and capped in a suitable manner. (Ord.
1537 § B35, 8-6-1996)
7-44: OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
No person owning or having charge of the moving of any building, into, on,
over, through, or from any public streets, ways or parks in the city, shall
permit such building to remain in any one location on any such street, way or
park for a period longer than twenty four (24) hours except by written
permission obtained from the chief of police, or to obstruct traffic on any
railroad. (Ord. 688 § 13)
7-45: LIGHTS AND BARRICADES:
The person having charge of the moving of any structure shall maintain proper
lights and barricades whenever such structure is on any public street, way or
park, during the hours of darkness. (Ord. 688 § 14)
7-46: REMOVAL OF WIRES AND STRUCTURAL SUPPORTS:
In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall have been
granted pursuant to this article makes it necessary to move, remove or displace
any pole or other structure supporting the wires, cables or other equipment of
any public utility of the city, or to cut, displace or change the location of
any wire, cable or other equipment upon such poles or structure, the person to
whom such permit has been granted, or his authorized representative, shall
obtain permission in writing from the owner of such pole or structure or the
wires, cables or other equipment thereon, and shall notify such owner at least
forty eight (48) hours prior to the time that the moving of such building will
necessitate the removal of such obstructions.
The person to whom such permit is granted as required in this article for the
removal of buildings shall not at the expiration of such time of notice or at
any time, cut, move or in any way disturb such public utility or city property;
and such work shall be done only by the authorized workmen of the utility or
the city, whichever is the owner. (Ord. 688 § 15)
7-47: PAYMENT OF COSTS BY MOVER FOR WIRE REMOVAL:
The person to whom such permit is granted as required in this article for the
removal of buildings shall pay to the public utility, or to the city, as the
case may be, any and all costs or expense for the removal, rearrangement or
replacement of any pole or structural support of wires, cables or equipment or
of the equipment thereon or of any damage to such property. (Ord. 688 § 15)
7-48: REMOVAL OF TREES; NOTICE REQUIRED:
In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall have been
granted pursuant to this article makes it necessary to trim, move, remove or
replant any tree, plant or shrub belonging to or under the control of the city,
the person to whom such permit has been granted, or his authorized
representative, shall notify the director of parks and leisure services at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to the time that the moving of such building
will necessitate the removal of such obstructions. (Ord. 1537 § B36, 8-6-1996)
7-49: REMOVAL OF TREES; AUTHORIZATION:
The person to whom such permit is granted as required in this article for the
removal of buildings shall not, at the expiration of such time of notice or at
any time, trim, move, remove, replant or otherwise disturb such trees, plants
or shrubs; and such work shall be done only by the authorized workmen of the
city unless otherwise approved and so ordered by the director of parks and
leisure services. (Ord. 1537 § B37, 8-6-1996)
7-50: REMOVAL OF TREES; PAYMENT OF COSTS:
The person to whom such permit is granted as required in this article for the
removal of buildings shall pay to the city any and all costs or expense for the
trimming, moving, removing or replanting of any trees, plants or shrubs or of
any damage thereto. (Ord. 688 § 16)
7-51: DAMAGE TO STREETS OR PUBLIC PROPERTY:
In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall have been
granted pursuant to this article causes damage to the public streets or other
public property, in addition to any other remedies the city may have, the city
engineer may cause such damage to be repaired and the cost thereof shall be
deducted from the deposit required by section
7-40 of this article, or he may require the person to whom such a permit has
been granted, or his authorized representative, upon written notification from
the city engineer to make all necessary repairs to such streets or property;
provided, however, that should such person to whom such permit has been
granted, and to whom such notice has been given, or his authorized
representative, fail to make such necessary repairs within the period of time
designated in such written notice, the city engineer may cause such necessary
repairs to be made and the cost thereof deducted from the deposit required by
section
7-40 of this article. (Ord. 1537 § B38, 8-6-1996)
ARTICLE VII. RESERVED
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
ARTICLE VIII. SWIMMING POOLS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 1804, 1-7-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 21, section
  300.12 of this code.
ARTICLE IX. UNIFORM BUILDING AND HOUSE NUMBERING SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-63: Plan Adopted
7-64: Specifications For Numbering
7-65: Size, Material And Location Of Building Numbers
7-66: Owner Or Occupant's Duty To Number Property
7-67: Building Inspector's Duties
7-68: Penalty For Violation Of Article
7-63: PLAN ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted a plan for the orderly numbering of houses, buildings,
separate entrances, offices and all other entrances and locations from public
streets in the city of Porterville in accordance with the proposal of the
planning commission of said city. (Ord. 788 § 1, 3-17-1964)
7-64: SPECIFICATIONS FOR NUMBERING:
Numbering shall be in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Numbering Required: All buildings fronting on streets, avenues, and
public ways in the city of Porterville and within the metropolitan building
numbering area as hereinafter described shall be numbered in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
   B.   Issuance Of Numbers; Record Maintained: Each building location within
the city limits shall be separately numbered and numbers shall be assigned upon
application with the building inspector or other city official designated by
the council of the city of Porterville, who shall maintain a permanent record
of all numbers assigned.
   C.   Manner Of Assigning Numbers: Numbers shall be assigned in such a manner
that even numbers shall be assigned on the north and east sides of the streets
in the city of Porterville and odd numbers shall be assigned on the south and
west sides of streets in the city of Porterville.
   D.   Numbers Shown On Map: A record of said building numbers assigned and to
be assigned shall be kept on a suitable map or maps in the office of the city
building inspector.
   E.   Street Orientation: Streets orientated north of the east-west baseline
shall have a prefix "North" and streets located south of the east-west baseline
shall have a prefix "South". Streets located east of the north-south baseline
shall have a prefix "East". Streets located west of the baseline shall have a
prefix "West".
   F.   Building Numbers: Building numbers shall be assigned beginning at the
above stated east-west baseline at one hundred (100) numbers per six hundred
sixty feet (660') (1/8 of a mile) east and west of the line and building
numbers shall be assigned beginning at Olive Street baseline at one hundred
(100) numbers per six hundred sixty feet (660') north and south of the said
baseline.
   G.   Frontage: There shall be assigned approximately 13.2 feet, plus or
minus, of frontage per number adjusted to conform with the actual distance in
any land section within the metropolitan building area.
   H.   Diagonal Streets: The numbering of diagonal streets shall be
progressive in the same direction at the rate of one hundred (100) numbers per
six hundred sixty feet (660') with an adjustment being made in the frontage per
number, depending on the degree of the diagonal.
   I.   Curved Streets: Curved streets shall be assigned the numbers assigned
from the grid system at that point and progress according to the curvature of
the streets. Such curved streets and the assignment of numbers to buildings
fronting on said streets shall have special consideration in the integration of
the system into this article as and when they shall hereafter occur.
   J.   Street Name Conflicts: The city engineer of the city of Porterville is
hereby assigned the duty of processing all cases wherein street names on the
same alignment are different and of recommending one name for said street to
the city council of the city of Porterville or the board of supervisors of the
county of Tulare if said streets are within the metropolitan building numbering
area.
   K.   Baselines: Olive Avenue and its prolongation as shown on the map is
hereby designated as the east-west baseline and Main Street, and its
prolongation north onto Division Street, is hereby designated as the north-
south baseline. (Ord. 788 § 2, 3-17-1964; Ord. 1537 § B39, 8-6-1996)
7-65: SIZE, MATERIAL AND LOCATION OF BUILDING NUMBERS:
Building numbers shall be not less than three inches (3") in height and shall
be of a durable material; shall be legible and shall be placed on said property
in such a manner as to be easily seen from the street on which the entrance to
said property faces. (Ord. 788 § 3, 3-17-1964)
7-66: OWNER OR OCCUPANT'S DUTY TO NUMBER PROPERTY:
It is hereby made the duty of the owner or occupant of any house, building,
separate entrance, office and all other entrances and locations to number or
cause to be numbered his or her house, building, separate entrance, office and
all other entrances and locations in accordance with the provisions of this
article within thirty (30) days after receiving notice of any number assigned
to said location or of any violation of this article from the building
inspector or any other official or employee of said city. (Ord. 788 § 4, 3-17-
1964)
7-67: BUILDING INSPECTOR'S DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to notify the owner or occupant
of a location of the number assigned to said location; the requirement of this
article that numbers be installed and maintained and, to determine whether the
same are installed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 788 § 5, 3-17-1964)
7-68: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF ARTICLE:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the terms and provisions of
this article within thirty (30) days after receiving notice of said violation
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the county or
city jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 788 § 6, 3-17-1964)
ARTICLE X. BUILDING SETBACK LINES
SECTION:
7-69: Findings Of City Council
7-70: Definitions
7-71: Centerline Of Each Street To Be Established
7-72: Structures And Buildings Prohibited Between Street And Building Setback
Lines
7-73: Building Setback Lines Established
7-74: Building Permits; Compliance With Article Required
7-75: Penalty For Violation Of Article
7-76: Prohibited Construction Deemed Nuisance; Abatement
7-77: Construction Of Article; Effect On Zoning Ordinance
7-78: Variances
7-69: FINDINGS OF CITY COUNCIL:
In order to promote, protect, and maintain the health, welfare, and safety of
the citizens of Porterville, it is deemed necessary that building setback lines
as hereafter defined be established within and along all streets, alleys, and
other thoroughfares within the city of Porterville. (Ord. 876 § 1, 5-4-1967)
7-70: DEFINITIONS:
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line running parallel with the centerline of a
street at a distance hereafter established in this article.
   STREET: As used in this article, shall include all streets, avenues,
highways, and other thoroughfares within the city of Porterville. (Ord. 876 §§
2, 3, 5-4-1967)
7-71: CENTERLINE OF EACH STREET TO BE ESTABLISHED:
The city engineer shall establish the centerline of each street within the city
of Porterville. (Ord. 876 § 4, 5-4-1967)
7-72: STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS PROHIBITED BETWEEN STREET AND BUILDING SETBACK
LINES:
Between the building setback lines as they shall exist along all streets within
the city of Porterville, it shall be unlawful to erect buildings of any kind;
or to erect any structure including, but not limited to, advertising structures
or solid walls or to establish any well, whether for water, oil or other
hydrocarbon substance, or to make excavations or install any subsurface
structure of any kind; provided, that such prohibition shall not apply to
trees, agricultural crops, open fences, or public utilities installed under
authority of law. (Ord. 876 § 5, 5-4-1967)
7-73: BUILDING SETBACK LINES ESTABLISHED:
The building setback lines for each street within the city in feet shall be as
set forth by
chapter 21 of this code. (Ord. 876 § 6, 5-4-1967; Ord. 1355 § A, 6-3-1986)
7-74: BUILDING PERMITS; COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE REQUIRED:
All officers and employees of the city of Porterville authorized or required by
law or ordinance to issue permits, licenses or other evidences of authority for
the erection or locating of any building, structure or installation within the
meaning of this article shall issue no such permit, license or other evidence
contrary to the provisions of this article and any such permit, license or
evidence of authority issued in conflict with the provisions of this article
shall be null and void. (Ord. 876 § 7, 5-4-1967)
7-75: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF ARTICLE:
Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall erect, locate or
install, or who shall cause to be erected, located or installed any building,
structure, excavation, well, or subsurface structure, contrary to the
provisions of this article, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the city or county jail for a period of
not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each such
person, firm, association or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each day during any portion of which any violation of any
provisions of this article is permitted or continued by such person, firm,
association or corporation, and shall be punishable therefor as provided in
this article; provided, that any building structure, well, excavation or
subsurface structure existing on the effective date of this article shall not
be deemed to be a violation of this article. (Ord. 876 § 8, 5-4-1967)
7-76: PROHIBITED CONSTRUCTION DEEMED NUISANCE; ABATEMENT:
It is hereby declared that any prohibited construction within the provisions of
this article within the building setback lines herein established shall be and
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance subject to abatement and further
subject to all other legal remedies to the city of Porterville. (Ord. 876 § 9,
5-4-1967)
7-77: CONSTRUCTION OF ARTICLE; EFFECT ON ZONING ORDINANCE:
This article shall not nor shall it be construed to limit any zoning ordinance
of the city of Porterville now in effect or hereafter adopted. (Ord. 876 § 10,
5-4-1967)
7-78: VARIANCES:
If unnecessary hardships or results inconsistent with the general purpose of
this article result through the strict and literal interpretations and
enforcement thereof in relation to properties which, because of size, shape,
location or other special circumstances, might be unreasonable or
inconsistently affected by the provisions of this article, the city council of
the city of Porterville, upon a written application from the owner or owners of
such property, shall have the authority to grant a variance from the provisions
of this article as may be in harmony with its general purpose and intent, so
that the spirit of this article shall be observed, public safety and welfare
served and substantial justice done. Provided further, that the granting of
such variance shall be subject to the procedures set forth and described in the
zoning ordinances of the city of Porterville, and before granting any variance
the city council shall strictly follow the procedures set forth in said zoning
ordinances. (Ord. 1537 § B40, 8-6-1996)
ARTICLE XI. DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-80: Code Adopted
7-80: CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   That certain code in book form to which more particular reference is
hereinafter made, setting forth orderly procedures for the repair, vacation and
demolition of buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life,
limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public or
their occupants, to be known and referred to as the uniform code for the
abatement of dangerous buildings, is hereby adopted and enacted by the city
council of the city of Porterville as an ordinance for the city of Porterville,
to all intents and purposes and to the same effect as if each and every
sentence, comma, paragraph, word, phrase and clause in said code mentioned or
referred to therein were and each thereof was fully and specifically set forth
herein.
   B.   Reference is hereby made to one copy of the 1997 edition of the uniform
code for the abatement of dangerous buildings compiled by the International
Conference of Building Officials, filed with the city clerk of Porterville and
said code is by reference adopted herein as provided by law. (Ord. 1243 § A,
10-27-1981; Ord. 1296 § A, 2-7-1984; Ord. 1373 § A, 1-6-1987; Ord. 1425 § A,
11-21-1989; Ord. 1523 § A, 11-21-1995; Ord. 1573 § A, 5-18-1999)
ARTICLE XII. HOUSING
SECTION:
7-101: Code Adopted
7-101: CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   That certain code in book form to which more particular reference is
hereinafter made, setting forth procedures for the repair, rehabilitation,
vacation or demolition of substandard buildings used for human habitation which
endangers the life, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or the
occupants thereof, to be known and referred to as the uniform housing code, is
hereby adopted and enacted by the city council of the city of Porterville as an
ordinance of the city of Porterville, to all intents and purposes and to the
same effect as if each and every sentence, comma, paragraph, word, phrase and
clause in said code mentioned or referred to therein or herein were and each
thereof was fully and specifically set forth herein.
   B.   Reference is hereby made to one copy of the 1997 edition of the uniform
housing code compiled by the International Conference of Building Officials,
filed with the city clerk of Porterville and said code is by reference adopted
herein as provided by law. (Ord. 1243 § A, 10-27-1981; Ord. 1296 § A, 2-7-1984;
Ord. 1373 § A, 1-6-1987; Ord. 1425 § A, 11-21-1989; Ord. 1523 § A, 11-21-1995;
Ord. 1573 § A, 5-18-1999)
ARTICLE XIII. PRELIMINARY SOIL REPORTS
SECTION:
7-125: Purpose
7-126: Preliminary Soil Report
7-127: Recommendation For Corrective Action
7-128: Approval For Building Permit
7-129: Liability
7-130: Preliminary Soil Report Minimum Data
7-131: Preliminary Soil Report Recommended Corrective Action
7-132: Grading Inspection And Supervision
7-133: Final Reports
7-134: Limits Of Engineer's Duties
7-135: Penalty For Violation
7-136: Additional Civil Remedy
7-137: Review By Building Code Review Board
7-125: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to comply with section 17953 of the California
Health and Safety Code relating to buildings and structures accessory thereto,
requiring a preliminary soil report on every new subdivision as defined in
sections 11535, 11535.1 and 11568 of the California Business and Professions
Code. (Ord. 900 § A, 3-19-1968)
7-126: PRELIMINARY SOIL REPORT:
A preliminary soil report, prepared by a civil engineer who is registered by
the state of California, based upon test borings or excavations which the city
engineer determines to be adequate shall be made of every new subdivision. The
city engineer may waive the preliminary soil report if he determines that
because of knowledge of his department as to the soil qualities of the
subdivision no preliminary analysis is needed. (Ord. 1537 § B41, 8-6-1996)
7-127: RECOMMENDATION FOR CORRECTIVE ACTION:
If the preliminary soil report indicates the presence of critical expansive
soils or compressive or colube soils or other soil problems, which if not
corrected, would lead to structural defects, such a soil report shall require
an investigation of each lot in the subdivision, unless a final report in
accordance with section
7-133 of this article is filed with the city engineer. The engineer shall
recommend corrective action in his report to prevent structural damage to each
structure proposed to be constructed on the soil investigated. (Ord. 900 § A,
3-19-1968)
7-128: APPROVAL FOR BUILDING PERMIT:
The preliminary soil report, including the investigation and recommended
corrective action to prevent structural damage, shall be filed with and
approved by the city engineer of the city of Porterville prior to issuance of a
building permit. The building permit shall be conditioned upon the
incorporation of the approved recommended action for foundation treatment as
part of the construction of each structure. Before approving said preliminary
soil report, including the investigation and recommendation, the city engineer
shall determine that the recommended corrective action is likely to prevent
structural damage to each structure to be constructed on each lot in the
subdivision. (Ord. 900 § A, 3-19-1968)
7-129: LIABILITY:
The city of Porterville, the city engineer of the city of Porterville, his
deputies, and department employees or other officers or employees of said city
charged with the administration and enforcement of this article shall not be
held liable for any injury which arises out of any act or omission of the said
city officers or employees in performing any duty or act imposed by this
article. (Ord. 900 § A, 3-19-1968)
7-130: PRELIMINARY SOIL REPORT MINIMUM DATA:
The minimum data which must be furnished the city engineer in the preliminary
soil report shall include, but not be limited to, that data set out by
resolution of the city council of the city of Porterville. (Ord. 900 § A, 3-19-
1968)
7-131: PRELIMINARY SOIL REPORT RECOMMENDED CORRECTIVE ACTION:
The preliminary soil report shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following recommendations:
   A.   Corrective Proposals For Earth Work: In cases where unsuitable
materials are found, proposals to replace, rework or blend, or to stabilize or
modify with additives either the natural site soils or the proposed fill
materials, shall be supported by appropriate laboratory analysis and such other
data as may be necessary for evaluation of the proposal.
   B.   Specifications For Grading: A complete and detailed specification shall
be prepared by the civil engineer for clearing, grubbing and all aspects of
grading, including filling with imported fill material, with special emphasis
on preparation of surfaces to receive fill, moisture content, nature of field
density tests, horizontal and vertical survey control of the job, and minimum
percent relative density to be obtained in the field as related to specified
type of laboratory density tests described above.
   C.   Statements Regarding Specified Grading: The engineer's professional
recommendation regarding: 1) the safe load bearing capacity for such controlled
area; 2) the maximum slope ratios necessary for slope stability for proposed
fill and cut slopes over two feet (2') in height; 3) the stability anticipated
in cut areas; and 4) the stability of underlying soils when subjected to
saturation based on test data and other factual information.
   D.   Recommendation For Foundation Design: Recommendations for
specifications of footing, foundations and/or slabs that will prevent future
development of structural defects in the foundations and superstructure
attributable to differential movement of the supporting soils. (Ord. 900 § A,
3-19-1968)
7-132: GRADING INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION:
All grading involving a preliminary soil report shall be performed under the
supervision of a civil engineer. It shall be the responsibility of the civil
engineer to supervise and coordinate all site supervision and testing during
grading operations. The preliminary soil report, and its recommendation, which
has been first approved by the city engineer, shall be used as a basis for the
grading operations. If, in the course of fulfilling this responsibility as the
supervising civil engineer, he finds that the work is not being done in
conformance with the preliminary report and grading plans approved by the city
engineer or in accordance with accepted practices, he shall immediately notify
the person in charge of the grading work and the city engineer, in writing, of
the nonconformity and of the corrective measures to be taken. In the event the
supervising civil engineer is relieved of or otherwise terminates his duties
prior to completion of the work shown on the grading plans, he shall report the
fact, in writing, to the city engineer within forty eight (48) hours from the
time such termination begins together with a report on the status of the work
at his last inspection. (Ord. 900 § A, 3-19-1968)
7-133: FINAL REPORTS:
The supervising civil engineer shall certify in a final report that all
grading, lot drainage, and drainage facilities have been completed in
conformance with the approved preliminary report. An as built grading plan
shall be submitted if final grade elevations vary by more than 0.3 foot from
the original plan. The final report shall also include a recommended soil
bearing capacity statement as to the expansive or compressive qualities of the
soil when subjected to saturation, and summaries of field and laboratory tests.
The approximate location of such tests and limits of compacted fill shall be
shown on a final plan. Final approval of grading shall not be given until all
maps and reports, as required by this section, have been submitted and approved
by the city engineer.
The building official of the city of Porterville shall not approve any building
permit on any lot within any tract subject to this article until the final soil
report as described in this article has been submitted to him and recorded with
the county recorder of Tulare County. (Ord. 1537 § B42, 8-6-1996)
7-134: LIMITS OF ENGINEER'S DUTIES:
The duty of the engineer doing soil reports pursuant to this article shall be
limited by the following:
   A.   After completion of the final report, any excavation made for the
installation of sewer, water, gas, electric or other utilities in or around the
building area shall be sufficiently backfilled and compacted, and control of
and responsibility for this work shall be the responsibility of persons doing
this work unless such control is specifically delegated by the property owner
to the persons originally responsible for soil conditions as reported in the
final report.
   B.   In the case of excavation for basements or other portions of structures
which may require structural backfill, the persons responsible for the final
report shall have no professional duty in connection with such work unless they
are specifically designated by the owner to control such work. (Ord. 900 § A,
3-19-1968)
7-135: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person, firm or corporation wilfully violating any of the provisions of
this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed,
continued, or permitted; and upon conviction, any such person shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 900 § A, 3-19-1968)
7-136: ADDITIONAL CIVIL REMEDY:
Any violation of the provisions of this article and the standards established
pursuant thereto is hereby determined to constitute a threat to the public
health, safety and welfare and is declared to be a public nuisance; and such
violation may be enjoined in a civil action instituted by the city attorney.
(Ord. 900 § A, 3-19-1968)
7-137: REVIEW BY BUILDING CODE REVIEW BOARD:
In order to provide for reasonable interpretations of this article and avoid
unnecessary hardship in its enforcement, the building code board of appeals for
the city of Porterville is hereby granted jurisdiction to review all orders
issued by the city engineer and his subordinates pursuant to this article. The
board may affirm, modify or set aside any such order. All decisions of the
board shall be final and conclusive.
In order to provide the building code board of appeals with independent advice
in regard to the matters that may come up pertaining to the application of this
chapter, where the board determines such advice is necessary, the board shall
appoint an advisory committee composed of three (3) civil engineers.
This committee shall review all appealed matters arising under this article
which are referred to it by the building code board of appeals and shall make
recommendations in accordance with their studies and findings. Said
recommendations, where requested, shall not be binding on the building code
board of appeals, but shall be considered before their final decisions. (Ord.
1537 § B43, 8-6-1996)
ARTICLE XIV. FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
7-138: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods
7-138.1: Statutory Authorization
7-138.2: Findings Of Fact
7-138.3: Statement Of Purpose
7-138.4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
7-139: Definitions
7-140: General Provisions
7-140.1: Lands To Which This Article Applies
7-140.2: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
7-140.3: Compliance
7-140.4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
7-140.5: Interpretation
7-140.6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
7-141: Administration
7-141.1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
7-141.2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
7-141.3: Development Permit
7-141.4: Appeals
7-142: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
7-142.1: Standards Of Construction
7-142.2: Standards For Elevation Certificates
7-142.3: Standards For Utilities
7-142.4: Standards For Subdivisions And Other Proposed Development
7-142.5: Standards For Manufactured Homes
7-142.6: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
7-142.7: Floodways
7-143: Variance Procedure
7-143.1: Nature Of Variances
7-143.2: Conditions For Variances
7-143.3: Appeal Board
7-138: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
7-138.1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of California has in Government Code sections
65302, 65560, and 65800 conferred upon local governments the authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the city council of the city of Porterville does
hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-
2011)
7-138.2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Porterville are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities also contributes to flood losses. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-138.3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this article to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by legally enforceable regulations applied
uniformly throughout the community to all publicly and privately owned land
within flood prone, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or flood related erosion areas.
These regulations are designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-138.4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this article includes regulations to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-139: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this article shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this article its most reasonable application.
   A    ZONE: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure that is either:
   A.   Solely for the parking of no more than two (2) cars; or
   B.   A small, low cost shed for limited storage, less than one hundred fifty
(150) square feet and one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) in value.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel, and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition, and channel migration.
   APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this article.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). Base flood is
the term used throughout this article.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map for zones AE, AH, A1-30, VE and V1-V30 that indicates the water surface
elevation resulting from a flood that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade, i.e., below
ground level, on all sides.
   BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before June 2, 2011.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM): The official map on which the
federal emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the floodway.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOODWATER: A. A general and temporary condition of
partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
inland or tidal waters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface
waters from any source; and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows); and
   B.   The condition resulting from flood related erosion.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map, the
flood boundary and floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This article and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other application of
police power which control development in flood prone areas. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations in any combination thereof which
provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See definition of Flood, Flooding, Or Floodwater.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents. For guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing,
see FEMA technical bulletins TB 1-93, TB 3-93, and TB 7-93.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
Also referred to as "regulatory floodway".
   FLOODWAY FRINGE: That area of the floodplain on either side of the
"regulatory floodway" where encroachment may be permitted.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION: As related to section
7-143 of this article, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on
or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the city of
Porterville will consider the fact that every newly constructed building adds
to government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for fifty
(50) to one hundred (100) years. Buildings that are permitted to be constructed
below the base flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased
risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the property and the
community as a whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and
suffering that those increased flood damages bring. In addition, future owners
may purchase the property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood
damage, and can be insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, and does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY: The city council of the city of Porterville, which is
empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HARDSHIP: As related to section
7-143 of this article means the exceptional hardship that would result from a
failure to grant the requested variance. The governing body requires that the
variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere
economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
   LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement (see definition of Basement).
   A.   An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure below the lowest floor that
is usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor
provided it conforms to applicable nonelevation design requirements, including,
but not limited to:
      1.   The flood openings standard in subsection
7-142.1C3 of this article;
      2.   The anchoring standards in subsection
7-142.1A of this article;
      3.   The construction materials and methods standards in subsection
 7-142.1B of this article; and
      4.   The standards for utilities in section
7-142.3 of this article.
   B.   For residential structures, all subgrade enclosed areas are prohibited
as they are considered to be basements (see definition of Basement). This
prohibition includes below grade garages and storage areas.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE: As defined in the city of Porterville substantial damage/
improvement procedures. See subsection 7-141.2B1 of this article.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American vertical datum
(NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on a
community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, means structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced on or after June 2, 2011, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after June 2, 2011.
   OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
   100-YEAR FLOOD: See definition of Base Flood.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY: A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE: As related to section
7-143 of this article, means that the granting of a variance must not result in
anything which is injurious to safety or health of an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs
the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or
river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
(1').
   REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or if this is
not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may
be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this article or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing state or federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SHEET FLOW AREA: See definition of Area Of Shallow Flooding.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): An area in the floodplain subject to a one
percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on an
FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, or AH.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground;
this includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this article which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
article.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this article. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in this article is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988, or
other datum, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains
of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-140: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
7-140.1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS ARTICLE APPLIES:
This article shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city of Porterville. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-140.2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FIS) for "The Flood
Insurance Rate Map For Tulare County And The Incorporated Areas" dated June 16,
2009, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary
and floodway maps (FBFMs), dated June 16, 2009, and all subsequent amendments
and/or revisions, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this article. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of
applicability of this article and may be supplemented by studies for other
areas which allow implementation of this article and which are recommended to
the governing body by the floodplain administrator. The study, FIRMs and FBFMs
are on file at 291 N. Main Street, Porterville, CA 93257, city hall, public
works department. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-140.3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this article
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Nothing herein shall prevent the governing body from taking such lawful action
as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-140.4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this article and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 1777, 5-
3-2011)
7-140.5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this article, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-140.6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This article does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This article
shall not create liability on the part of the city council, any officer or
employee thereof, the state of California, or the federal emergency management
agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this article or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-141: ADMINISTRATION:
7-141.1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The public works director is hereby appointed to administer, implement, and
enforce this article by granting or denying development permits in accord with
its provisions. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-141.2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Permit Review: Review all development permits to determine:
      1.   Permit requirements of this article have been satisfied, including
determination of substantial improvement and substantial damage of existing
structures;
      2.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      3.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
      4.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. This means that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the city of Porterville; and
      5.   All letters of map revision (LOMRs) for flood control projects are
approved prior to the issuance of building permits. Building permits must not
be issued based on conditional letters of map revision (CLOMRs). Approved
CLOMRs allow construction of the proposed flood control project and land
preparation as specified in the "start of construction" definition.
   B.   Development Of Substantial Improvement And Substantial Damage
Procedures:
      1.   Using FEMA publication FEMA 213, "Answers To Questions About
Substantially Damaged Buildings", develop detailed procedures for identifying
and administering requirements for substantial improvement and substantial
damage, to include defining "market value".
      2.   Assure procedures are coordinated with other departments/divisions
and implemented by community staff.
   C.   Review, Use And Development Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with section
7-140.2 of this article, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal or state agency, or other source, in order to administer section
7-142 of this article.
Note: A base flood elevation may be obtained using one of two (2) methods from
the FEMA publication, FEMA 265, "Managing Floodplain Development In Approximate
Zone A Areas - A Guide For Obtaining And Developing Base (100-Year) Flood
Elevations" dated July 1995.
   D.   Notification Of Other Agencies:
      1.   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the California department of
water resources prior to alteration or relocation;
         b.   Submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency
management agency; and
         c.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      2.   Base flood elevation changes due to physical alterations:
         a.   Within six (6) months of information becoming available or
project completion, whichever comes first, the floodplain administrator shall
submit or assure that the permit applicant submits technical or scientific data
to FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR).
         b.   All LOMRs for flood control projects are approved prior to the
issuance of building permits. Building permits must not be issued based on
conditional letters of map revision (CLOMRs). Approved CLOMRs allow
construction of the proposed flood control project and land preparation as
specified in the "start of construction" definition.
Such submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of those physical
changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain
management requirements are based on current data.
      3.   Changes in corporate boundaries: Notify FEMA in writing whenever the
corporate boundaries have been modified by annexation or other means and
include a copy of a map of the community clearly delineating the new corporate
limits.
   E.   Documentation Of Floodplain Development: Obtain and maintain for public
inspection and make available as needed the following:
      1.   Certification required by subsection
7-142.1C1 and section
7-142.5 (lowest floor elevations) of this article;
      2.   Certification required by subsection
7-142.1C2 (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) of this
article;
      3.   Certification required by subsection
7-142.1C3 (wet floodproofing standard) of this article;
      4.   Certification of elevation required by subsection
7-142.4A3 (subdivisions and other proposed development standards) of this
article;
      5.   Certification required by subsection
7-142.7B (floodway encroachments) of this article; and
      6.   Maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification
for their issuance, and report such variances issued in its biennial report
submitted to the federal emergency management agency.
   F.   Map Determination: Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in section
7-141.4 of this article.
   G.   Remedial Action: Take action to remedy violations of this article as
specified in section
7-140.3 of this article.
   H.   Biennial Report: Complete and submit biennial report to FEMA.
   I.   Planning: Assure community's general plan is consistent with floodplain
management objectives herein. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-141.3: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development, including manufactured homes, within any area of special flood
hazard established in section
7-140.2 of this article. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the city of Porterville. The applicant shall provide the
following minimum information:
   A.   Plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing:
      1.   Location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in question,
existing or proposed structures, storage of materials and equipment and their
location;
      2.   Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and other
utilities;
      3.   Grading information showing existing and proposed contours, any
proposed fill, and drainage facilities;
      4.   Location of the regulatory floodway when applicable;
      5.   Base flood elevation information as specified in section
7-140.2 or subsection
7-141.2C of this article;
      6.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures;
      7.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed, as required in subsection
7-142.1C2 of this article and detailed in FEMA technical bulletin TB 3-93; and
      8.   Complete preliminary elevation certificate provided by the city of
Porterville confirming and stating proposed elevation of lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures, including nonresidential structures
being floodproofed.
   B.   Certification from a registered civil engineer or architect that the
nonresidential floodproofed building meets the floodproofing criteria in
subsection
7-142.1C2 of this article.
   C.   For a crawl space foundation, location and total net area of foundation
openings as required in subsection
7-142.1C3 of this article and detailed in FEMA technical bulletins 1-93 and 7-
93.
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   E.   All appropriate certifications listed in subsection
7-141.2E of this article. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-141.4: APPEALS:
The city council of the city of Porterville shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this article. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-142: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
7-142.1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements of
structures, including manufactured homes, shall be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements of structures, including manufactured homes, shall be
constructed:
      1.   With flood resistant materials, and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage for areas below the base flood elevation;
      2.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding; and
      4.   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Elevation And Floodproofing:
      1.   Residential Construction: All new construction or substantial
improvements of residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including
basement:
         a.   In AE, AH, A1-30 zones, elevated to or above the base flood
elevation.
         b.   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth
number is specified.
         c.   In an A zone, without BFEs specified on the FIRM (unnumbered A
zone), elevated to or above the base flood elevation; as determined under
subsection
7-141.2C of this article.
         d.   In an A zone, without BFEs specified on the FIRM (unnumbered A
zone) and not subject to the criteria in section
7-142.4 of this article, elevated to:
            (1)   A height of at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent
grade, or
            (2)   Eighteen inches (18") above the highest top of curb elevation
across the front of the lot, or
            (3)   For the purpose of this article, construction completed prior
to date of adoption of the chapter codified herein of any structure in zone A
located within the following described boundaries shall have the lowest floor
including basement, elevated to a depth of one foot (1') above the highest
adjacent grade:
               North boundary - Westfield Avenue
               South boundary - Henderson Avenue
               East boundary - Prospect Street
               West boundary - Newcomb Street
New development or substantial improvements in this zone shall comply with the
requirements of NFIP program and as outlined in this article. Said boundary is
shown on FIRM panel 1633 of 2550 (map number 06107C1633E), effective date of
June 16, 2009, or
            (4)   Said base flood elevation shall be determined by one of the
methods under subsection
7-141.2C of this article.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be certified by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, and verified by the community building inspector to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: All new construction or substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures shall either be elevated to conform
with subsection C1 of this section or:
         a.   Be floodproofed, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the elevation recommended under subsection C1 of this
section, so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be certified by a registered civil engineer or architect that the
standards of subsections C2a and C2b of this section are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator.
      3.   Flood Openings: All new construction and substantial improvements of
structures with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwater. Designs for meeting this requirement must meet the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   For nonengineered openings:
            (1)   Have a minimum of two (2) openings on different sides having
a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade;
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwater; and
            (4)   Buildings with more than one enclosed area must have openings
on exterior walls for each area to allow floodwater to directly enter; or
         b.   Be certified by a registered civil engineer or architect.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   See section
7-142.5 of this article.
      5.   Garages And Low Cost Accessory Structures:
         a.   Attached Garages:
            (1)   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed
with the garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwaters, see subsection C3 of this section. Areas of the
garage below the BFE must be constructed with flood resistant materials, see
subsection B of this section.
            (2)   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the
above requirements or be dry floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking
areas, see FEMA technical bulletin TB-6.
         b.   Detached Garages And Accessory Structures:
            (1)   "Accessory structures" used solely for parking (2 car
detached garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds), as
defined in section
7-139 of this article, may be constructed such that its floor is below the base
flood elevation (BFE), provided the structure is designed and constructed in
accordance with the following requirements:
               (A)   Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking
or limited storage;
               (B)   The portions of the accessory structure located below the
BFE must be built using flood resistant materials;
               (C)   The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
               (D)   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory
structure must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
               (E)   The accessory structure must comply with floodplain
encroachment provisions in section
7-142.7 of this article; and
               (F)   The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwaters in accordance with subsection C3 of this
section.
            (2)   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the
above standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards
in this section. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-142.2: STANDARDS FOR ELEVATION CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation is required when the footings are set and finished floors are
established. Written confirmation shall be provided to the chief building
official before proceeding to the next phase of construction. Failure to submit
such written certification shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the
project. An elevation certificate shall be provided to the floodplain
administrator and chief building official prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy. As built plans certifying the elevation of the lowest adjacent
grades shall also be required.
   B.   Except within zones A and AO, the benches shown on the FIRM shall be
used to calculate the elevation of the lowest floor.
   C.   If fill is used to elevate a structure above the base flood elevation,
the permit holder may apply for a letter of map revision (LOMR), as set forth
in section
7-141.2 of this article. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-142.3: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate:
      1.   Infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
      2.   Discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
   B.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them, or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-142.4: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed development, including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions, greater than fifty (50)
lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall:
      1.   Identify the special flood hazard areas (SFHA) and base flood
elevations (BFE).
      2.   Identify the elevations of lowest floors of all proposed structures
and pads on the final plans.
      3.   If the site is filled above the base flood elevation, the following
as built information for each structure shall be certified by a registered
civil engineer or licensed land surveyor and provided as part of an application
for a letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) to the floodplain
administrator:
         a.   Lowest floor elevation.
         b.   Pad elevation.
         c.   Lowest adjacent grade.
   B.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   C.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   D.   All subdivisions and other proposed development shall provide adequate
drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-142.5: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved, on
sites located: 1) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; 2) in a
new manufactured home park or subdivision; 3) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or 4) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial
damage" as the result of a flood, shall:
      1.   Within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's flood insurance
rate map, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely fastened to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-30, AH,
and AE on the community's flood insurance rate map that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection A of this section will be securely fastened to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement, and be elevated so that either the:
      1.   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation; or
      2.   Manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, and verified by the community building inspector to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-142.6: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   All recreational vehicles placed in zones A1-30, AH, and AE will
either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; or
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of section
7-141.3 of this article and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in subsection
7-142.5A of this article. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-142.7: FLOODWAYS:
Since floodways are an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential,
the following provisions apply:
   A.   Until a regulatory floodway is adopted, no new construction,
substantial development, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted within zones A1-30 and AE, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the city of Porterville.
   B.   Within an adopted regulatory floodway, the city of Porterville shall
prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development, unless certification by a registered civil
engineer is provided demonstrating that the proposed encroachment shall not
result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge.
   C.   If subsections A and B of this section are satisfied, all new
construction, substantial improvement, and other proposed new development shall
comply with all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
section
7-142. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-143: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
7-143.1: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
The issuance of a variance is for floodplain management purposes only.
Insurance premium rates are determined by statute according to actuarial risk
and will not be modified by the granting of a variance.
The variance criteria set forth in this section
7-143 are based on the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain
to a piece of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be
granted for a parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that
complying with the requirements of this article would create an exceptional
hardship to the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The
characteristics must be unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent
parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the
structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
It is the duty of the governing body to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this article are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-143.2: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of sections
7-141 and
7-142 of this article have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing
the variance increases.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" (as defined in section
7-139 of this article) upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary" considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this article. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the governing body need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the governing body
believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local
ordinance.
   E.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage, and
      2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be recorded by
the floodplain administrator in the office of the Tulare recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
   F.   The floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal emergency management
agency. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
7-143.3: APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   In passing upon requests for variances, the governing body shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this article, and the:
      1.   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
      2.   Danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      4.   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
      5.   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are
not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   Safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      10.   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
      11.   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   B.   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship" to the applicant; and
      3.   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance (see definition of "public safety and
nuisance"), cause "fraud and victimization" of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
   C.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of subsections A through D of this
section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   D.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection 7-143.2A of this
article and the purposes of this article, the governing body may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this article. (Ord. 1777, 5-3-2011)
CHAPTER 8
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
8-1: Legislative Findings
8-2: Definition
8-3: Permit Required
8-4: Application For Permit
8-5: Contents Of Application
8-6: Other Information
8-7: Application Fees
8-8: Photographs Required
8-9: Fingerprints Required
8-10: Investigation; Character And Business Responsibility
8-11: Permit And Identification Card To Be Carried On Person
8-12: Exemption; Temporary Nonprofit Fundraising
8-13: Conditions And Regulations
8-14: Enforcement
8-15: Appeals To City Council
8-16: Peddling/Soliciting Unlawful Where Signposted
8-17: Distribution Of Handbills; Excluded
8-18: Severability
8-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
The city council of the city of Porterville finds that the city has had past
problems with door to door sales that are conducted in a manner detrimental to
its community members' safety. This includes, but is not limited to, such sales
occurring late at night, posing a threat to the safety of those that are
solicited as well as those that engage in peddling and soliciting activities as
defined below. Additionally such sales are at times misrepresented as being
made by or on the behalf of charitable nonprofit organizations, and these
provisions will help deter such fraudulent conduct by requiring additional
accountability from those engaged in door to door sales. The public safety and
convenience necessitates the exercise of police power through the enactment and
enforcement of the provisions proposed. However, these provisions are not
intended to limit any persons from exercising their constitutional right to
solicit funds, picket, protest, proselytize, or engage in other
constitutionally protected activity. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-2: DEFINITION:
"Peddler", "solicitor", and/or "canvasser" (hereinafter referred to
collectively in this chapter as "peddlers") includes "peddlers" as defined
pursuant to section
15-1 of this code and "solicitors or canvassers" as defined pursuant to section
15-1 of this code, and means any person who goes from house to house, or from
place to place in the city selling or taking orders for, or offering to sell or
take orders for goods, wares and merchandise for present or future delivery, or
for services to be performed immediately or in the future, whether or not such
person has, carries or exposes a sample of such goods, wares and merchandise,
or not and whether or not he is collecting advance payments on such sales or
not. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to act as a peddler within the city without
having first obtained a permit issued pursuant to this chapter. This permit is
required in addition to any licenses required under
chapter 15 of this code. The employees, agents, solicitors or representatives
or any firm, irrespective of the form of organization, may be covered under a
single business license under chapter 15 of this code (if allowed under that
chapter); however each individual shall be required to obtain a permit pursuant
to section
8-4 of this chapter unless exempt pursuant to section
8-12 of this chapter or under any other provision of law. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-
2005)
8-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applicants for a permit under this chapter shall file with the finance officer
an application in writing on a form to be prescribed by the finance officer.
(Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-5: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The application shall contain the following information:
   A.   The permanent home address and full local address of the peddler or
solicitor;
   B.   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation by whom the
peddler/solicitor is employed;
   C.   The length of service of each peddler/solicitor with such employer;
   D.   The place of residence and nature of the employment of the peddler/
solicitor with such employer during the last preceding year;
   E.   The nature or character of the goods, wares, merchandise or services to
be offered by the peddler/solicitor;
   F.   A personal description of the peddler/solicitor; including height,
weight, eye color and hair color;
   G.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   H.   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time such application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery;
   I.   Photographs pursuant to section
8-8 of this chapter;
   J.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance, the date of
such crime or violation, the nature of the offense, and the punishment or
penalty assessed therefor;
   K.   The time of day and/or evening during which the solicitation/sales
activities will be taking place;
   L.   Any applicable state or federal permitting licensing information, when
such a permit or license is required for the type of business or activity.
(Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-6: OTHER INFORMATION:
Such information shall be accompanied by such credentials and other evidence of
good moral character and identity of each peddler/solicitor as may be
reasonably required by the finance officer. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-7: APPLICATION FEES:
   A.   The application fee, replacement application, and identification card
fees shall be set by resolution.
   B.   Fees and investigations as used in this section refer solely to
individuals and not to firms. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-8: PHOTOGRAPHS REQUIRED:
Each application for a permit as required by this chapter must be accompanied
by two (2) prints of a recent photograph of the peddler/solicitor, which
photographs shall not exceed two inches (2") square in size and shall be full
front views of the face and head only of such peddler/solicitor. (Ord. 1662 §
1, 3-1-2005)
8-9: FINGERPRINTS REQUIRED:
At the time of making the application for a permit, each peddler/solicitor
shall present himself/herself at the office of the chief of police of the city
for the purpose of being fingerprinted and supplying routine information
required on the fingerprinting forms provided, without expense, by the city,
including the physical characteristics of each person, identifying marks or
scars, age, name, address and signature. Such fingerprint records are to be
taken in triplicate and each individual so presenting himself/herself is
advised that the city reserves the right to retain one of such fingerprint
records in its files for permanent safekeeping, and to send one such
fingerprint record to the federal bureau of investigation of the department of
justice at Washington, D.C., and to the criminal investigation department of
the California department of justice at Sacramento, California, for the purpose
of filing. No fingerprint records will be returned in the event the permit
applied for is not issued or is subsequently suspended or revoked. (Ord. 1662 §
1, 3-1-2005)
8-10: INVESTIGATION; CHARACTER AND BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY:
The original copy of the application shall promptly be referred to the chief of
police, who shall promptly make an investigation of the applicant's character
and business responsibility. If the applicant's character or business
responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the chief of police shall endorse
on such application the police chief's disapproval and the reason therefor and
return the application to the finance officer. The finance officer shall notify
the applicant that the application is disapproved and that no permit will be
issued. If the chief of police finds that the applicant's character and
business responsibility are satisfactory, the police chief shall approve the
application and return it to the finance officer, who shall promptly issue the
permit and identification card. The city may refuse to issue a permit to an
applicant that has previously violated any provision of this chapter or chapter
15 of this code. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-11: PERMIT AND IDENTIFICATION CARD TO BE CARRIED ON PERSON:
Each peddler/solicitor issued a permit and identification card must be in
possession of the permit and identification card at all times when engaged in
the business so permitted within the city. The peddler/solicitor must produce
and show the permit and identification card on the demand of any person
solicited or of any police officer or official of the city. No person issued a
permit or an identification card shall alter, remove or obliterate any entry
made upon such permit or card, or deface such permit or card in any way. Each
permit and card shall be personal and not assignable or transferable, nor shall
any permit or card be used by any person other than the permittee or the person
for whom the identification card is issued. The peddler/solicitor must wear the
permit so that it is visible at all times. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-12: EXEMPTION; TEMPORARY NONPROFIT FUNDRAISING:
The prescribed permit requirements shall not apply to nonprofit organizations
which conduct occasional house to house retail sales of packaged wares when the
individuals are soliciting on behalf of such organizations, so long as prior to
engaging in the activity, the organization submits an application to the
finance department, indicating the dates, time period and length of the
temporary fundraising activity, and evidence of the organization's not for
profit or charitable status. The organizations and individuals shall be subject
to all other conditions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the
applicable conditions set forth in section
8-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-13: CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS:
The following conditions and regulations shall also apply in addition to those
set forth in other parts of this chapter or elsewhere in this code:
   A.   Shouting; Calling Wares: No person acting under authority of any permit
issued under this chapter shall shout or call the person's wares in a loud,
boisterous or unseemly manner, or to the disturbance of residents in the city.
   B.   Identification By Comparing Signature With That On Permit: Every
peddler/solicitor, upon the request of any police officer or official of the
city, shall sign the peddler/solicitor's name for comparison with the signature
upon the permit or card or the signature upon the permit application.
   C.   Order To Be Written In Duplicate: Any person acting under authority of
any permit issued under this chapter who solicits orders for future delivery
shall write each order at least in duplicate, plainly stating the quantity of
each article or commodity ordered, the price to be paid therefor, the total
amount ordered and the amount to be paid on or after delivery. One copy of such
order shall be given to the customer.
   D.   Identification Required Upon Request: Every peddler/solicitor shall,
upon request of any person solicited, provide his/her name, business address
and telephone number and the name, business address and telephone number of the
person, organization, or entity on whose behalf solicitation is being made.
   E.   Time: The time of day and/or evening during which the activities will
occur shall be set at the time of application for the permit, and under no
circumstances will such activities occur before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or
after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A permit issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
chief of police for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for permit;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business as peddler/solicitor;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      5.   Conducting the business of soliciting or of canvassing in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
This section shall be self-executing and the suspension or revocation shall be
effective immediately. The city clerk shall give notice of the suspension or
revocation of the permit and sufficient notice shall be given if mailed or
delivered to the permittee at the permittee's last known local address.
   B.   The city may refuse to issue a permit to an applicant that has
previously violated any provision of this chapter or
chapter 15 of this code.
   C.   Any person subject to the permit requirements of this chapter who
conducts the activities described in this chapter without first having obtained
the prescribed permit required under this chapter, in a case where the city
decides to issue such a permit, may be required to pay a fee for such permit
equal to up to double the amount of the fee for said permit.
   D.   Activities conducted in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall constitute and be punishable as an infraction.
   E.   Activities conducted in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall constitute a nuisance and shall be subject to civil enforcement,
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief.
   F.   Violators of this and any other chapter of this code shall also be
subject to any other applicable enforcement provisions set forth in this code.
   G.   All applicable remedies set forth in this code are deemed to be
cumulative. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-15: APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL:
In the event that any applicant or permittee desires to appeal from any order,
revocation or other ruling of the finance officer, the chief of police or any
other official of the city, made under the provisions of this chapter, such
applicant or any other person aggrieved shall file written notice of such
appeal with the city clerk and such matters shall be heard at the next regular
meeting of the city council, at which time the city council shall hear and
receive evidence, written and oral upon all matters involved. The decision of
the city council shall be final upon all parties concerned. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-
1-2005)
8-16: PEDDLING/SOLICITING UNLAWFUL WHERE SIGNPOSTED:
It is unlawful for any person described in section
8-2 of this chapter to perform or attempt to perform the acts described in such
section by ringing the doorbell or knocking at the door or otherwise calling
attention to the person's presence of or at any residence whereon a sign
bearing the words "No Peddlers", "No Solicitors" or words of similar import is
painted or affixed so as to be exposed to public view, and no person, described
in section
8-2 of this chapter shall perform or attempt to perform any of the acts
described in such section in any building, structure or place of business
wherein a sign prohibiting the activities, is painted or affixed so as to be
exposed to public view. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-17: DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS; EXCLUDED:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit persons from distributing handbills door
to door within the city without a permit, nor shall this chapter prohibit
individuals from engaging in anonymous religious or political speech. However,
such activities shall be prohibited if a sign has been posted by the property
or business owner or manager that clearly prohibits such activities, and such
activities can be legally prohibited at the site under those circumstances.
(Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
8-18: SEVERABILITY:
It is declared to be the intention of the city council that the subsections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this chapter are distinct and
severable and, in the event that any subsections, paragraphs, clauses and/or
phrases are declared to be unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity, or
unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining subsections, paragraphs,
clauses, or phrases of this chapter. (Ord. 1662 § 1, 3-1-2005)
CHAPTER 8A
SIDEWALK VENDING
SECTION:
8A-1: Definitions
8A-2: Sidewalk Vending Permits
8A-3: General Regulations
8A-4: Specific Regulations
8A-5: Violation; Penalty
8A-6: Ability-To-Pay Determination
8A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following meanings shall apply:
ROAMING SIDEWALK VENDOR: A sidewalk vendor who moves from place to place and
stops only to complete a transaction.
SIDEWALK VENDOR: A person who sells food or merchandise from a pushcart, stand,
display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other non-motorized
conveyance, or from one’s person, upon a public sidewalk or other pedestrian
path.
STATIONARY SIDEWALK VENDOR: A sidewalk vendor who vends from a fixed location.
(Ord. 1852, 3-26-2019)
8A-2: SIDEWALK VENDING PERMITS:
   A.   Only sidewalk vendors with valid sidewalk vending permits issued by the
Finance Director may vend upon the city’s public right-of-way.
   B.   To apply for a sidewalk vending permit, the applicant must provide:
      1.   A completed application form containing:
         a.   Their name and mailing address;
         b.   Description of the merchandise offered for sale or exchange;
         c.   If the sidewalk vendor is an agent of an individual, company,
partnership, or corporation, the name and business address of the principal and
any owners of the company, partnership, or corporation; and
         d.   Certification that the information is true to his or her
knowledge and belief.
      2.   A copy of a California’s driver’s license or identification number,
an individual taxpayer identification number, or a social security number. Such
information is not a public record and will remain confidential as required by
Government Code section 51038(c)(4).
      3.   A copy of a valid California Department of Tax and Fee
Administration seller’s permit, as required.
      4.   A copy of a valid Mobile Food Permit issued by the Tulare County
Department of Health and Human Services, as required.
   C.   To ensure the safety of residents and the merchantability of products
sold by vendors without a fixed place of business, the city requires all
sidewalk vending applicants to undergo a fingerprinting background check and to
submit the results to the city as an attachment to their application.
   D.   The sidewalk vending permit application shall require the applicant to
agree, in writing, to comply with all the provisions of this chapter and all
applicable provisions of the Porterville Municipal Code. (Ord. 1852, 3-26-2019)
8A-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   To maintain accessibility standards for the city’s disabled residents,
every sidewalk vendor operating on any sidewalk or public right-of-way must
ensure that no obstruction is placed in the sidewalk or public right-of-way
that would reduce the width of the sidewalk to less than 48 inches, exclusive
of the top of the curb. No obstruction shall be located in a sidewalk or public
right-of-way less than six feet in width when the sidewalk is adjacent to the
curb.
   B.   To prevent food-borne illness and protect the health and safety of the
city’s residents, every sidewalk vendor selling any food or beverage is
required to wear a hairnet and food service gloves.
   C.   To prevent dangerous distractions and promote the general welfare of
the city’s residents, sidewalk vendors are prohibited from emitting any loud,
unnecessary and unusual noises including, but not limited to, using a
loudspeaker, blowing any bugle, horn or trumpet, or beating any drum, or
ringing any bell, or in any other manner, for the purpose of advertising,
announcing or calling attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise.
   D.   A sidewalk vending permit does not provide an exclusive right to
operate within any specific portion of the public right-of-way.
   E.   No equipment or objects used for sidewalk vending purposes may be left
or maintained in public spaces or in any portion of the public right-of-way
from 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Any equipment or objects left overnight in public
spaces or in any portion of the public right-of-way will be considered
discarded and shall be seized or disposed of by the city.
   F.   To facilitate the enforcement of this chapter, every sidewalk vendor
must display their city-issued sidewalk vending permit on the street side
portion of their pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase,
rack, or other non-motorized conveyance when operating in the public right-of-
way.
   G.   To prevent unintended rolling or slipping, a sidewalk vendor is
prohibited from operating a pushcart, pedal-driven cart, wagon, or other non-
motorized conveyance on a public-right-of-way with a slope greater than five
percent. (Ord. 1852, 3-26-2019)
8A-4: SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sidewalk vending hours’ limitations in areas zoned for nonresidential
use will be as restrictive as any limitations on hours of operation imposed on
other businesses or uses on the same street, excluding those permitted to
operate 24 hours.
   B.   Sidewalk vending is limited to the hours of 9:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m.
for areas that are exclusively residential, unless modified by resolution of
the City Council.
   C.   Stationary sidewalk vendors are prohibited from operating in areas that
are exclusively residential.
   D.   A stationary sidewalk vendor is prohibited from operating in a city
park if the City has entered into exclusive agreements for the sale of food or
merchandise by one or more concessionaires for that city park.
   E.   A sidewalk vendor is prohibited.from operating within 500 feet of a
permitted certified farmers’ market, a permitted swap meet, or any area subject
to a temporary use permit or Community Civic Event for the duration of the
permit. (Ord. 1852, 3-26-2019)
8A-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Every person vending without a sidewalk vending permit is guilty of an
administrative violation punishable by an administrative fine not to exceed:
      1.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a first violation; or
      2.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second violation within one
year of the first violation; or
      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each additional violation
within one year of the first violation.
      4.   Upon proof of a valid permit issued by the Finance Department, the
administrative fine in Section
8A-5 (A) will be reduced to the corresponding administrative fine in Section
8A-5 (B).
   B.   Every person violating any other provision of this chapter is guilty of
an administrative violation punishable by an administrative fine not to exceed:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation; or
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation within one year
of the first violation; or
      3.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional violation within
one year of the first violation.
      4.   The Finance Director may rescind a sidewalk vendor permit for the
remaining term of the permit upon a fourth or subsequent violation of this
chapter.
   C.   Failure to pay an administrative fine is not punishable as an
infraction or misdemeanor. Additional fines, fees, assessments, or any other
financial conditions beyond those authorized will not be assessed. However, the
City may levy a lien on the violator’s real or personal property, including the
vehicle used for vending purposes.
   D.   An administrative violation constitutes a separate and distinct
violation for each day that it exists and each such violation may be subject to
the maximum fine permitted under this chapter. (Ord. 1852, 3-26-2019)
8A-6: ABILITY-TO-PAY DETERMINATION:
   A.   Any fine issued under Section
8A-5  will be accompanied with a notice of and instruction regarding the right
to request an ability-to-pay determination.?
   B.   If the requestor is receiving public benefits under Government Code
section 68632, subdivision (a), or has a monthly income which is 125 percent or
less than the current poverty guidelines updated periodically in the Federal
Register by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the
Finance Director will limit the total amount of the requestor’s administrative
fine to 20 percent of the total and may:
      1.   Allow the person to complete community service in lieu of paying the
total administrative fine; or
      2.   Waive the administrative fine; or
      3.   Offer an alternative disposition. (Ord. 1852, 3-26-2019)
CHAPTER 9
CIVIL DEFENSE AND DISASTER
SECTION:
9-1: Purpose Of Chapter
9-2: Definitions
9-3: Emergency Council
9-4: Officers Of Emergency Council
9-5: Emergency Council Meetings
9-6: Duties Of Emergency Council
9-7: Powers Of Chairman Of Emergency Council
9-8: Exercises Or Drills
9-9: Acts Authorized Under Certain Conditions
9-10: Emergency Services Coordinator
9-11: Powers And Duties Of Coordinator
9-12: Emergency Powers Of Coordinator
9-13: Emergency Services Organization
9-14: Functions And Duties Of Emergency Service Organization
9-15: Acts Unlawful During Disasters
9-16: Penalty For Violation Of Chapter
9-1: PURPOSE OF CHAPTER:
The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and carrying
out of plans for disaster and emergency services, the protection of persons and
property within the city of Porterville in the event of a disaster, and to
provide for the coordination of the disaster and emergency functions of the
city with all other affected persons and agencies, both public and private. Any
expenditures made in connection with such disaster or emergency services,
including mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the
direct protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property in the city.
(Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the following definitions shall
govern the construction of this chapter:
   DISASTER: Actual or threatened enemy attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire,
flood, storm, epidemic, riot, earthquake or other public calamity. It shall not
include, nor does any provision of this chapter apply to, any condition
relating to a labor controversy.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES: The preparation for carrying out disaster functions,
other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, and
to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters. It
shall not include, nor does any provision of this chapter apply to, any
condition relating to a labor controversy.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES OFFICE: The physical facilities constituting the Tulare
operational area's primary emergency operating center, and the necessary staff
and personnel to operate such facilities on a day to day or disaster emergency
basis.
   TULARE OPERATIONAL AREA: The unincorporated area of the county, and the
cities of Dinuba, Exeter, Farmersville, Lindsay, Porterville, Tulare, Visalia
and Woodlake. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-3: EMERGENCY COUNCIL:
The emergency council of the Tulare operational area is hereby created and
shall consist of the following members:
   A.   The chairman of the board of supervisors of the county. Said board of
supervisors shall appoint an additional member of said board to serve as an
alternate member of the emergency council when the chairman is absent from the
county or is not immediately available to perform his duties.
   B.   The mayors of the cities of Dinuba, Exeter, Farmersville, Lindsay,
Porterville, Tulare, Visalia and Woodlake, or alternates appointed by the
respective city councils.
   C.   Two (2) persons residing in the unincorporated area of the county who
shall be appointed by the other members of the emergency council.
   D.   The emergency services coordinator of the county, who shall be an ex
officio member and who shall not be entitled to a vote at the meetings of the
emergency council. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-4: OFFICERS OF EMERGENCY COUNCIL:
The officers of the emergency council shall be a chairman, and such other
officers as the council may deem necessary. The chairman of the board of
supervisors shall serve as chairman of the council. When he is absent from the
county or is not immediately available to perform his duties, the other member
of the board of supervisors who is a member of the council shall serve as
chairman. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-5: EMERGENCY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
The emergency council may hold regular meetings at a time and place established
by the council. Special meetings of the council shall be called in accordance
with section 54950 et seq., of the Government Code of the state of California.
Special meetings may be called by the chairman or the alternate chairman
designated pursuant to section
9-4 of this chapter. The council shall meet at least four (4) times each year.
The council shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations governing the
conduct of its meetings. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-6: DUTIES OF EMERGENCY COUNCIL:
It shall be the duty of the emergency council to review and recommend for
adoption by the board of supervisors and the respective city councils, disaster
and mutual aid plans and agreements, and such ordinances, resolutions, rules,
regulations and budgets as are necessary to implement such plans and
agreements. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-7: POWERS OF CHAIRMAN OF EMERGENCY COUNCIL:
The chairman of the emergency council is hereby empowered to perform the
following acts:
   A.   Serve as the emergency services director of the Tulare operational
area.
   B.   Request the city council of the city of Porterville to proclaim the
existence or threatened existence of a local emergency and the termination
thereof, if the city council is in session, or to issue such a proclamation if
the city council is not in session, subject to confirmation by the city council
at the earliest practicable time.
   C.   Request the mayor to request the governor to proclaim a state of
disaster when in the opinion of the chairman the resources of the area are
inadequate to cope with the disaster on a local basis. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-
1970)
9-8: EXERCISES OR DRILLS:
The chairman of the emergency council shall order an exercise or drill of the
entire emergency services organization at least once each year, and a minimum
of two (2) exercises or drills for selected portions of the emergency operating
center staff each year. Participation in required state or federal exercises,
special drills for communications, radiological, fire, law enforcement or other
specific services shall be in addition to the exercises or drills required
hereinabove. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-9: ACTS AUTHORIZED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS:
In the event of the proclamation of a local emergency as herein provided, or
the proclamation of a state of disaster by the governor or the director of the
California disaster office, or in the event of a war caused state of extreme
emergency, the chairman, as the emergency services director of the Tulare
operational area, is hereby empowered to perform the following acts:
   A.   Make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably related to
the protection of life and property as affected by such disaster; provided,
however, that such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the emergency council.
   B.   Subject to the approval of the city council, to obtain vital supplies,
equipment and such other properties found lacking and needed for the protection
of life and property of the people, and to bind the city for the fair value
thereof and, if required, to commandeer the same immediately for public use.
   C.   Require emergency services of any city officer or employee, and in the
event of the proclamation of a state of disaster or extreme emergency by the
governor in the region in which the city is located, to commandeer the aid of
as many citizens as he thinks necessary in the execution of his duties. Such
persons shall be entitled to all privileges, benefits and immunities which are
provided by state law for registered civil defense and disaster volunteer
workers.
   D.   Requisition any necessary equipment or materials from any city
department or agency.
   E.   Execute all of the special powers conferred upon him by this chapter or
by resolution adopted pursuant thereto, all powers conferred upon him by any
statute, by any agreement approved by city council, or by any other lawful
authority. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-10: EMERGENCY SERVICES COORDINATOR:
There is hereby created the position of emergency services coordinator of the
Tulare operational area who may be referred to as the coordinator. He shall
serve as the executive officer of the Tulare operational area and his staff
shall serve as the staff of the emergency services office. The board of
supervisors of the county of Tulare shall consider the recommendations of the
emergency council in the appointment or dismissal of the coordinator. (Ord. 987
§ A, 10-6-1970)
9-11: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COORDINATOR:
The coordinator shall have the following general powers and duties:
   A.   Represent the emergency council and its chairman as their executive
officer for the purpose of coordinating all efforts within the Tulare
operational area for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter.
   B.   Identify and define questions of authority and responsibility that may
arise between persons and agencies referred to in section
9-13 of this chapter and submit recommendations for resolving such matters to
the chairman.
   C.   Represent the Tulare operational area in all dealings with public or
private agencies pertaining to disaster or civil defense, when authorized by
the chairman.
   D.   Prepare an operational plan with necessary service annexes and standing
operating procedures to provide administrative guides for the Tulare
operational area.
   E.   Plan and conduct exercises and drills, as ordered by the chairman, for
the emergency services organization or for the emergency operating center
staff. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-12: EMERGENCY POWERS OF COORDINATOR:
In the event of the proclamation of a local emergency as herein provided, or
the proclamation of a state of disaster by the governor, or in the event of a
war caused state of extreme emergency, the coordinator is hereby empowered to
perform the following acts:
   A.   Activate the emergency operating center including calling in, as
necessary, service chiefs, standby staff and service dispatchers.
   B.   Cause the dissemination of appropriate warning signals and issue
suitable advisory information to the emergency council, the emergency services
organization and the public.
   C.   Advise the California disaster office of the local situation.
   D.   Request mutual aid through the California disaster office if local
deficiencies of personnel and/or equipment are indicated by the service chiefs.
   E.   Order the provision of security for the emergency operating center and
communications staff. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-13: EMERGENCY SERVICES ORGANIZATION:
All officers and employees of the county and the cities included in the Tulare
operational area, together with those volunteer forces enrolled to aid them
during a disaster and all groups, organizations and persons, including persons
commandeered under the provision of subsection
9-9C of this chapter who by operation of law or agreement may be charged with
duties incident to the protection of life and property in the city during such
disaster, shall constitute the emergency service organization of the Tulare
operational area. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-14: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF EMERGENCY SERVICE ORGANIZATION:
The functions and duties of the emergency services organization shall be
distributed among such divisions, services and special staff as the emergency
council shall prescribe by resolution, subject to the approval of the board of
supervisors of the county and the respective city councils. Insofar as
possible, the form of organization, titles and terminology shall conform to the
recommendations of the federal government and the California disaster office.
(Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-15: ACTS UNLAWFUL DURING DISASTERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any of the following acts during
a disaster:
   A.   Wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency services
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this chapter or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by
virtue of this chapter.
   B.   To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued
pursuant to this chapter, if such act is of such a nature as to give, or be
likely to give, assistance to the enemy, or to imperil the lives or property of
inhabitants of the city, or to prevent or delay the defense or protection
thereof.
   C.   To wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the civil defense and disaster agency of the
federal government or the state of California. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
9-16: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter which are declared
to be unlawful shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment in the Tulare County jail for not more than six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 987 § A, 10-6-1970)
CHAPTER 10
RESERVED
(Rep. by Ord. 1144 § 1, 7-5-1978)
CHAPTER 11
DANCES AND DANCE HALLS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
11-1: Public Dance Defined
11-2: Persons Under Age Twenty One Prohibited From Working Or Performing
Services At Public Dances Where Alcoholic Beverages Sold Or Consumed
11-3: Hours When Public Dances Prohibited
11-4: Unlawful To Engage In Public Dancing During Prohibited Hours
11-5: Persons Under Sixteen Years Of Age Barred From Public Dances Unless
Accompanied By Parent Or Guardian
11-5.1: Chapter Supplemental To Other Laws
11-5.2: Conduct Of Public Dances; Attendance Of Police Officers Or Special
Officers
11-5.3: Violation; Closing Of Public Dance
11-5.4: Employment Of Dancing Partners Prohibited
11-1: PUBLIC DANCE DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter a "public dance" is hereby defined to include
any place such as halls, rooms, buildings, restaurants, cafes and all other
places within the city wherein dancing may be engaged in, is open to the
general public, and for which a fee is charged. For purposes of this chapter, a
fee shall be deemed to include an admission charge, a cover charge, a "minimum"
or any other charge exacted from members of the general public. (Ord. 834 § A,
8-3-1965)
11-2: PERSONS UNDER AGE TWENTY ONE PROHIBITED FROM WORKING OR PERFORMING
SERVICES AT PUBLIC DANCES WHERE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES SOLD OR CONSUMED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21), or for
any person to employ, engage or otherwise permit any person under the age of
twenty one (21) to work or perform services of any kind whatsoever including,
but not limited to, the services of a musician at any place where public
dancing is permitted, where alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed. (Ord. 834
§ A, 8-3-1965)
11-3: HOURS WHEN PUBLIC DANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or permit to be conducted public
dancing within the city between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-4: UNLAWFUL TO ENGAGE IN PUBLIC DANCING DURING PROHIBITED HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in dancing at any public dance
within the city between the hours specified in the preceding section
11-3 of this article. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-5: PERSONS UNDER SIXTEEN YEARS OF AGE BARRED FROM PUBLIC DANCES UNLESS
ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
No person under the age of sixteen (16) years, unaccompanied by a parent or
guardian, shall enter any place where public dancing is permitted or carried
on, or loiter at or near the doors of said place within the city while said
public dancing is being conducted therein, and it shall be unlawful for any
person in charge of, conducting, or carrying on such public dancing, to permit
any person under the age of sixteen (16) years, unaccompanied by a parent of
guardian, to enter said place where said public dancing is being conducted, or
engage in dancing in such place, or to loiter at or near the doors of said
place while such public dancing is being carried on or conducted. (Ord. 834 §
A, 8-3-1965)
11-5.1: CHAPTER SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or amend any law, ordinance
or regulation of any political subdivision in force within the city of
Porterville and all such laws, ordinances or regulations now in effect or
hereinafter enacted shall be in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-5.2: CONDUCT OF PUBLIC DANCES; ATTENDANCE OF POLICE OFFICERS OR SPECIAL
OFFICERS:
It shall be the duty of every person conducting a public dance to conduct and
manage the same in a manner that is not inconsistent with good public morals
nor will any person allow or permit any unnecessary disturbance to the peace
and quiet of the public.
In the event the chief of police should determine from the anticipated
attendance expected at a public dance, or if he should determine that it is in
the best interests of the public in general, that one or more police officers
should be assigned to duty at said public dance, then the chief of police is
hereby authorized to so assign said officer or officers. The expense of said
assignment shall be paid to the city by the licensee. Nothing herein shall be
deemed to prevent the licensee from employing special officers or other persons
at said dance. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-5.3: VIOLATION; CLOSING OF PUBLIC DANCE:
In the event any police officer of the city determines that any law, ordinance,
or regulation in force within the city is being violated he shall order the
person conducting a public dance to immediately cease said violation and/or
close said public dance. It shall be unlawful for the licensee to continue said
public dance and it shall be unlawful to dance at said public dance after a
proper order to close said dance has been made and given. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-
1965)
11-5.4: EMPLOYMENT OF DANCING PARTNERS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any other person to act as a
dancing partner at a public dance and it shall be unlawful for any person to
accept said employment. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
ARTICLE II. LICENSE TO CONDUCT DANCES
SECTION:
11-6: Required
11-7: Application; Contents
11-8: Investigation Of Applicant; Grounds For Denying Application
11-9: Issuance Of License
11-10: Appeal Procedure If License Application Denied
11-11: License Fee
11-12: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
11-13: Business Conducted At Place And Premises Described In Application;
License Not Transferable; Exception
11-14: Contents Of License; Posting
11-15: When License Valid; License Record
11-16: License Term; Renewal; Procedure If Renewal Application Denied
11-17: Waiver Of Chapter Provisions
11-6: REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to open, establish, keep, maintain or
conduct any public dance hall within the city, or to carry on or conduct or
engage in the business of conducting any public dancing within the city without
first obtaining a license as provided in this article. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-7: APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
For the purpose of procuring a license required by section
11-6 of this article such person shall file an application in writing therefor
with the chief of police, which application shall contain the following:
   A.   The name and residence of the applicant, if a natural person or
persons; and the name and principal place of business of the applicant, if a
corporation, together with the names and addresses of its officers.
   B.   The particular place and premises in such city wherein it is proposed
to establish, open, conduct, maintain, or engage in the business of conducting
public dancing and whether or not any alcoholic beverage will be sold or
consumed on said premises and the square footage of said premises.
   C.   A statement that no license has been formerly issued to the applicant
or applicants, or to any agent of them, and following issuance said license has
been canceled or revoked.
   D.   The estimated average attendance the applicant or applicants expect at
said dance. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-8: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; GROUNDS FOR DENYING APPLICATION:
Upon receipt of the application set forth in section
11-7 of this article together with the license fee required by the provisions
of this chapter the chief of police shall make a thorough investigation of the
person or persons applying for said license and the chief of police shall deny
the issuance of the license if he finds that the person or persons making
application for said license are not of good moral character or if the person
be a corporation, that the officers and representatives of such corporation are
not of good moral character, or the premises where the public dancing is to be
conducted does not comply with the provisions of any law, ordinance or
regulation of any political subdivision effective within the city, or are
injurious to the public health and safety; or the person or persons making
application for said license have had a license forfeited, suspended or revoked
under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-9: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
In the event the chief of police after completing the investigation required in
this chapter finds that a license should be issued then he shall cause his
findings to be submitted to the city license collector and the city license
collector shall issue a license to the person or persons making said
application. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-10: APPEAL PROCEDURE IF LICENSE APPLICATION DENIED:
In the event the chief of police denies the application for a license the
applicant may, within ten (10) days after receiving written notice of denial,
appeal the decision with the city clerk. The city council within thirty (30)
days after filing of the notice of appeal shall fix a time for the hearing of
such appeal, which hearing shall be heard not less than two (2) weeks from the
date of the meeting of the city council at which the time for hearing is set,
and notice of such hearing shall be given by the city clerk by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation published in the city. At the time fixed for
hearing of such application or at such time at which such hearing may be
continued by the city council, and upon proof to the satisfaction of the
council that notice of such hearing was given it shall proceed with the hearing
of such appeal, and if it shall satisfactorily appear to the council that the
applicant has complied with all of the provisions of this chapter and that the
applicant is a proper person to hold the license herein provided for, the
council may, at its discretion, order the city license collector to issue said
license. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-11: LICENSE FEE:
Any person to which a license may be issued under this chapter must pay for
such license, to the license collector at the time of the issuance thereof, a
fee as fixed by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965; Ord.
1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
11-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city council may upon its own motion and shall upon the verified complaint
in writing of any person, investigate the conduct of any public dance and the
council shall have the power to temporarily suspend, permanently revoke, or
condition a license issued hereunder if it finds any of the following:
   A.   Misrepresentation of a material fact by the applicant in obtaining a
license.
   B.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Commission of any act which under this chapter would be sufficient
ground for denial of an application for a license.
   D.   Disturbance of the peace in or about the premises for which the license
was issued or permitting the peace to be disturbed in or about said premises.
   E.   Upon written statement made by the chief of police of the city of
Porterville at a regular meeting of the city council, that such public dance or
dance hall is being conducted in a manner detrimental to public health, safety
or welfare.
In the event said license is temporarily suspended, permanently revoked or
conditioned, the city council shall give notice to the licensee by mailing the
same to the premises to which said license was issued, of said suspension,
revocation or condition and it shall thereafter be unlawful for the licensee to
conduct or permit to be conducted public dances on the premises to which said
license was issued. Within ten (10) days of the receipt of said notice from the
city council the licensee may demand a hearing on the action of the city
council by filing a written demand with the city clerk. The city council at its
next regular meeting shall fix a time for said hearing which shall not be less
than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after the date at which the
time for said hearing is fixed. At the time set for the hearing the city
council shall hear all pertinent evidence relating to said license and shall
either terminate the temporary suspension, revocation or condition or shall
permanently suspend, revoke or condition said license. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-13: BUSINESS CONDUCTED AT PLACE AND PREMISES DESCRIBED IN APPLICATION;
LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE; EXCEPTION:
The license required by section
11-6 of this article, when issued, shall be authority to the person to whom the
same has been issued, to establish, open, keep, maintain, conduct and carry on
at the particular place and premises described in the application therefor, but
at no other place, the business of a public dance hall, and of conducting
public dancing therein, but such license shall not, nor shall any interest
therein be assignable or transferable, and such license shall be valid only
when held by the person to whom the same has been issued, and while the
business thereunder shall be conducted and carried on at the particular place
and premises described in the application therefor; provided, however, that the
city council may for good cause shown, and upon personal application of the
holder of such license, permit such license to be used for another suitable and
proper place in the city by the person to whom such license has been issued,
but this proviso shall not be construed in any way as permitting any business
to be conducted in more than one place at the same time under such license.
(Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-14: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; POSTING:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be subject to investigation,
suspension, revocation or conditioning by the city council as provided in this
chapter and each license issued shall contain a statement that such license is
subject to investigation, suspension, revocation or conditioning by the city
council.
It shall be the duty of the licensee to post said license in a conspicuous
place at the place to which said license has been issued and to keep the same
posted until it expires and public dancing in said place is unlawful when said
license is not so posted. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-15: WHEN LICENSE VALID; LICENSE RECORD:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only when signed by the
chief of police or in his absence, the city manager. The city license collector
shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued, to whom issued and the
place to which said license is issued and the expiration date of said license.
(Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
11-16: LICENSE TERM; RENEWAL; PROCEDURE IF RENEWAL APPLICATION DENIED:
No license shall be granted or issued under this chapter for a period longer
than one year; provided, however, that a license may be renewed from year to
year or any lesser period without the filing of a new application upon written
request for renewal to the chief of police and upon payment of the fee set
forth in section
11-11 of this article.
In the event the chief of police refuses to authorize the renewal of said
license or within five (5) days after receipt of the written request fails to
authorize the renewal of said license the person requesting said renewal may
appeal to the city council in the same manner as set forth in section
11-10 of this article. The time for filing the written notice of appeal shall
run from the date of denial of the chief of police or five (5) days after
filing the written request for renewal whichever is the earlier. (Ord. 834 § A,
8-3-1965)
11-17: WAIVER OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS:
The city council may waive any provision of this chapter in the event it finds
that the net proceeds of a public dance are to be used for charitable or
educational purposes or if said public dance is to be conducted under the
supervision and direction of school authorities. (Ord. 834 § A, 8-3-1965)
CHAPTER 12
FIRE PREVENTION
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
12-1.1: California Fire Code Adoption
12-1.1.1: Severability
12-1.2: Bureau Of Fire Prevention; Established; Supervision; Enforcement Of
Chapter
12-1.3: Bureau Of Fire Prevention; Fire Marshal In Charge
12-1.4: Bureau Of Fire Prevention; Meaning Of Term Fire Marshal
12-1.5: Applicability Of County Air Pollution Rules And Regulations To All
Burning
12-1.6: Storage, Operation And Use Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases
12-1.7: Appeals From Administrative Decisions
12-1.8: Open Burning, Recreational Fires, And Portable Outdoor Fireplaces
12-1.9: Permits For New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies
12-1.10: Violations; Penalties
12-1.11: Interference With Operation Or Work Of Fire Department
12-1.1: CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE ADOPTION:
   A.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted by the Council of the City of
Porterville for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known
as the California Fire Code, published by the International Code Council being
particularly the 2022 edition thereof together with the following appendices
thereto: 4, B, BB, C, CC, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, O, and P to all intents and
purposes and to the same effect as if each and every sentence, paragraph, word
and clause in said codes mentioned are referred to herein or therein were fully
and specifically set forth herein, are hereby adopted and enacted by the
Council of the City of Porterville as amended and changed as follows:
   B.   Fire Code Amendments:
      1.   Section [A] 103.1 is amended to read as follows:
         [A] 103.1 Creation of agency. The BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION is hereby
created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the fire code
official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation,
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
      2.   Section [A] 105.1.1 is amended to read as follows:
         [A] 105.1.1 Permits required. A property owner or owner’s authorized
agent who intends to conduct an operation or business, or install or modify
systems and equipment that are regulated by this code, or to cause any such
work to be performed, shall first make application to the Building Department
and obtain the required permit.
      3.   Section 111 Means of Appeals is removed and replaced by Porterville
City Code Section
12-1.7
      4.   Section [A] 112.4 is amended to read as follows:
         [A] 112.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit
or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding one hundred eighty days (180) or six
(6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Alternatively, the City of Porterville reserves the right to enforce violations
of this code utilizing the Administrative Citation process outlined in Chapter
2, Article 14 of the Porterville City Code.
      5.   Section 311.1.1 is amended to read as follows:
         5.1.1.1 Abandoned premises. Buildings, structures and premises for
which an owner cannot be identified or located by dispatch of a certificate of
mailing to the last known or registered address, which persistently or
repeatedly become unprotected or unsecured, which have been occupied by
unauthorized persons or for illegal purposes, or which present a danger of
structural collapse or fire spread to adjacent properties shall be considered
to be abandoned, declared unsafe and abated by demolition or rehabilitation in
accordance with the 1997 Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, as
adopted by reference in Section 7-80 of the Porterville City Code, and the
California Building Code.
      6.   The Exception 1. to Section 603.5.2 is deleted, Exception 2. is
amended to read:
         2.   Current taps and relocatable power taps shall not be required to
connect directly to a permanently installed receptacle outlet where used for 90
days or less for the purpose of testing the performance of such devices. This
exception shall only apply to research conducted in a proper occupancy, under
controlled conditions, in a facility that is protected by an automatic fire
sprinkler system.
      7.   Appendix C, Section C103.1 is amended to read as follows:
         C103.1 Hydrant spacing. Fire apparatus access roads and public streets
providing required access to buildings in accordance with Section 503 shall be
provided with one or more fire hydrants, as determined by Section C102.1. Where
more than one fire hydrant is required, the distance between required fire
hydrants shall be spaced at no greater than three hundred (300) feet in
commercial, multi-family, or mixed use applications and no greater than five
hundred (500) feet in single-family residential applications.
      8.   Appendix CC, Section CC105.1 is amended to read as follows:
         CC105.1 The spacing between fire hydrants shall comply with Section
C103.1 as amended.
      9.   Appendix CC, Section CC105.2 is deleted.
      10.   The Exception to Section D104.2 of Appendix D is deleted.
      11.   Appendix D, Section D103.5 is amended to read:
         1.   Where a single gate is provided, the gate width shall be not less
than 20 feet (6096 mm). Where a fire apparatus road consists of a divided
roadway, the gate width shall be not less than 16 feet (4877 mm).
      12.   The Exception to Section D106.1 of Appendix D is deleted.
      13.   Appendix D, Section D107.1 is amended to read as follows:
         D107.1 One- or two-family dwelling residential developments.
Developments of one- or two-family dwellings where the number of dwelling units
exceeds 30 shall be provided with two separate and approved fire apparatus
access roads. Developments of one- or two-family dwellings where the number of
dwelling units does not exceed 30 may be required to provide two separate and
approved fire apparatus access roads.
      14.   Exceptions 1 and 2 of section D107.1 of Appendix D are deleted.
      15.   Chapter 1, Section 111; Chapter 36; Appendix A; Appendix K;
Appendix L; Appendix M; and Appendix N are deleted.
   C.   Fire Code Copy On File: One (1) copy has been and now is filed in the
Office of the Fire Marshal of the City of Porterville and the same hereby
adopted with the amendments herein set forth and incorporated as fully as if at
length herein and provisions thereto shall be controlling within the limits of
the City of Porterville. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.1.1: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of this article that can be given effect without the invalid
provision of application, and to this end the provisions of this article are
severable. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.2: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION; ESTABLISHED; SUPERVISION; ENFORCEMENT OF
CHAPTER:
The Fire Code adopted by section
12-1.1 of this article shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire Prevention in
the Fire Department of the City which is hereby established and which shall be
operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department. (Ord. 1865,
11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.3: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE MARSHAL IN CHARGE:
The Fire Marshal, named and appointed by the Chief of the Fire Department,
shall be in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019;
Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.4: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION; MEANING OF TERM FIRE MARSHAL:
Where the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention is given the title “Fire
Marshal” the words “Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention” shall be held to
mean the Fire Marshal who is the fire code official. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019;
Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.5: APPLICABILITY OF COUNTY AIR POLLUTION RULES AND REGULATIONS TO ALL
BURNING:
All burning within the City of Porterville shall comply with the rules and
regulations of the Air Pollution Control District, County of Tulare, and State
of California. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.6: STORAGE, OPERATION AND USE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES:
Nothing contained in the referenced edition of the Fire Code shall be construed
as to exempt any person, firm or corporation from complying with all applicable
regulations and restrictions of the zoning ordinance of the City of Porterville
regarding the storage, operation and use of liquefied petroleum gases (LPG).
LPG may be used as a second fuel for emergency generators as permitted by the
Fire Code. LPG will also be permitted for fueling mobile equipment. (Ord. 1865,
11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.7: APPEALS FROM ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:
Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department or the Fire Marshal shall disapprove
an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed
that the provisions or intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not
apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed, or that
the true intent and meaning of this Code have been misconstrued or wrongly
interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Chief of the
Fire Department or the Fire Marshal to the California Office of the State Fire
Marshal within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision. The decision of
the State Fire Marshal shall be final. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-
15-2022)
12-1.8: OPEN BURNING, RECREATIONAL FIRES, AND PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES:
   A.   All open burning, recreational fires and portable outdoor fireplaces
shall comply with the requirements set forth in the California Fire Code.
   B.   Nothing within this article shall be construed as exempting a person
from complying with the requirements set forth with San Joaquin Valley Air
Pollution Control District.
   C.   Landowners must implement best management practices or reasonable
alternatives to open burning for controlling and disposing of tumbleweeds on
their property as set forth with San Joaquin Air Pollution Control District. A
burn permit may be issued for burning tumbleweeds once the district has deemed
that the only disposal method for the site is by open burning and the smoke
will not affect smoke sensitive areas or contribute to a nuisance.
   D.   Permits are to be issued by SJVAPCD and permittee must comply with all
requirements. Permittee must also notify the City of Porterville Fire
Department prior to burning. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.9: PERMITS FOR NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES:
The City Manager, Chief of the Fire Department and the Chief of the Bureau of
Fire Prevention shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in
such Code. The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire Code adopted by
section
12-1.1 of this article, or its amendments, or fail to comply therewith, or who
shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall
build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans
submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply
with such an order as affirmed or modified by the State Fire Marshal or by a
court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, and any person
violating any of the terms and provisions of this chapter with its amendments,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment of not more than six (6) months in the City or County Jail, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. Alternatively, the City of Porterville
reserves the right to enforce violations of this code utilizing the
Administrative Citation process outlined in Chapter 2, Article 14 of the
Porterville City Code. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019; Ord. 1898, 11-15-2022)
12-1.11: INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OR WORK OF FIRE DEPARTMENT 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with any operation or work of
the Fire Department of the City of Porterville or any of the members thereof
while the same are responding to or operating at the same or any fire or other
emergency within the City of Porterville. (Ord. 1865, 11-19-2019; Ord. 1898,
11-15-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  18-5 of this Code.
ARTICLE II. FIREWORKS
SECTION:
12-2.1: Definitions
12-2.2: Sales Of Fireworks; Permits Required
12-2.3: Public Displays Of Fireworks
12-2.4: Number Of Permits Limited/Preapplication
12-2.5: Sales Of Safe And Sane Fireworks; Applications For Permits
12-2.6: Permit Issuance Based On Drawing Selections
12-2.7: Period Of Discharge
12-2.8: Prohibitions On Discharge
12-2.9: Time Period For Sale
12-2.10: Prohibitions
12-2.11: Regulations Related To Fireworks Sales
12-2.12: Fireworks Stands; Requirements
12-2.13: Fireworks Stands; Locations
12-2.14: Certificate Of Insurance
12-2.15: State Fireworks Law
12-2.16: Revocation Of Permits
12-2.17: Nonissuance Of Permits
12-2.18: Seizure Of Fireworks
12-2.19: Exceptions
12-2.20: Violations; Penalties
12-2.21: Social Host
12-2.22: Reward Program
12-2.1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, definitions shall have the respective meaning
ascribed to them in section 12500 et seq., of the Health And Safety Code of the
State of California, and, unless otherwise apparent from the context, certain
words and phrases used in this article are defined as follows:
CITY:         The City of Porterville.
DANGEROUS     Any fireworks specified as such in the state fireworks law, section 12500 et seq.,
FIREWORKS:    of the Health And Safety Code of the state and such other fireworks as may be
              determined to be dangerous by the state fire marshal.
              An organization which has met all of the following criteria for a continuous
              period of not less than one full year preceding submittal of an application for
              the permit required by this article (and which continues to do so thereafter):
              A.   The organization must be a duly organized not for profit charitable,
              religious, civic, patriotic or community service organization;
              B.   The organization must be headquartered within and clearly affiliated or
ELIGIBLE      identified with Porterville;
ORGANIZATION: C.   The organization must be one which provides direct and regular community
              services and benefits to the citizens of the city; and
              D.   The organization must hold its regularly scheduled meetings within the city;
              E.   Must maintain a bona fide membership of at least twenty (20) members;
              F.   The organization must have a tax exempt identification number assigned to
              them;
              G.   One application per tax exempt ID number will be allowed; and
              H.   One permit per tax exempt number will be allowed.
FIRE CHIEF:   The fire chief or his/her duly authorized designee.
              Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
              substances, or device prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or an
              audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, and shall
              include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns in which
              explosives are used, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, daygo
FIREWORKS:    bombs, sparklers or other devices of like construction and any devices containing
              any explosive or flammable compound, or any tablet or other device containing an
              explosive substance; except that the term “fireworks” shall not include any auto
              flares, paper caps containing not in excess of an average of twenty five one-
              hundredths (0.25) of a grain of explosive content per cap and toy pistols, toy
              canes, toy guns or other devices for use of such caps, the sale and use of which
              shall be permitted at all times.
              Any fireworks which do not fall within the definition of “dangerous fireworks” or
              “exempt fireworks” per Health and Safety Code section 12529. The California state
SAFE AND SANE fire marshal’s seal of registration shall be applied to all classified fireworks
FIREWORKS:    and pyrotechnic devices by a licensed manufacturer, importer, exporter or
              wholesaler and shall indicate the classification assigned by the state fire
              marshal.
              Any building, counter, or other structure of a temporary nature used in the sale
STAND:        or offering for sale of fireworks pursuant to a permit duly issued. (Ord. 1650 §
              2, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011; Ord. 1799, 11-5-2013; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
 
12-2.2: SALES OF FIREWORKS; PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any
dangerous fireworks in the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any “safe
and sane” fireworks in the city without first obtaining a permit therefor.
(Ord. 1650 § 3, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.3: PUBLIC DISPLAYS OF FIREWORKS:
The fire chief shall have power to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
the granting of permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by a
jurisdiction, fair associations, amusement parks, other organizations or for
use of fireworks by artisans in pursuit of their trade. Every such use or
display shall be handled by a licensed operator approved by the fire chief and
shall be of such character and so located, discharged or fired so as, in the
opinion of the fire chief after proper investigation, not to be hazardous to
property or endanger any person. Said rules and regulations are as follows:
   A.   Applications: Applications for permits shall be made in writing at
least ten (10) days in advance of the date of the display. After such privilege
shall be granted, sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
   B.   Bond For Fireworks Display Required: The permittee shall furnish a bond
or certificate of insurance in an amount deemed adequate by the city’s risk
manager for the payment of all damages which may be caused either to a person
or persons or to property by reason of the permitted display and arising from
any acts of the permittee, his agents, employees or subcontractors.
   C.   Disposal of Unfired Fireworks: Any fireworks that remain unfired after
the display is concluded shall be immediately disposed of in a way safe for the
particular type of fireworks remaining. (Ord. 1650 § 3, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1776, 4-
5-2011; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.4: NUMBER OF PERMITS LIMITED/PREAPPLICATION:
The maximum number of permits to sell “safe and sane” fireworks which may be
issued pursuant to this article during any one calendar year shall not exceed
one permit for each four thousand (4,000) residents of the city, or major
fraction thereof, based on the most recent population figure as determined by
the federal decennial census and updated annually by the California state
department of finance. If the number of preapplications received up to and
including the last day for making applications pursuant to this article exceeds
the number of permits to be issued for the city, the fire chief shall
thereafter supervise a public drawing to determine an order of priority for
each preapplication. Preapplications can be obtained at the fire department or
online at the city of Porterville’s website between January 1 and the last
business day of January. All applicants will be assigned a number in the order
in which the preapplication is received. The drawing will be held between
February 16 and February 28 each year. (Ord. 1799, 11-5-2013; Ord. 1882, 5-4-
2021)
12-2.5: SALES OF SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS; APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS:
Permits to sell “safe and sane” fireworks shall be issued by the fire chief.
Application packets for a permit will be furnished to eligible organizations
whose number has been drawn. Each organization must meet all the applicable
requirements set forth in the application for permits section and the permit
issuance section.
   A.   Any eligible organization desiring to sell “safe and sane” fireworks in
the city of Porterville shall obtain a permit application from the fire
department. Permit applications shall be obtained during the period commencing
the first business day of March and ending the last business day in March.
   B.   Such applications shall be signed by a bona fide officer of the
eligible organization, wherein the officer, on behalf of the organization and
its agents, shall agree to abide by state laws and administrative regulations
and all the stipulations of this code and the permit if permission to operate a
fireworks stand shall be granted to the organization.
   C.   Completed applications shall be returned to the fire department no
later than five o’clock (5:00) P.M. on the last business day of March each
year. Any eligible organization making an application for such permit to sell
“safe and sane” fireworks that fails to return the completed application prior
to five o’clock (5:00) P.M. on the last regular business day in March shall not
be issued a permit to sell “safe and sane” fireworks.
   D.   The licensee shall use the net proceeds derived from its operations
under such license only for such nonprofit, charitable, religious or
eleemosynary service projects that shall be of direct benefit to the city of
Porterville and for no other purpose. (Ord. 1650 § 3, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1776, 4-5-
2011; Ord. 1799, 11-5-2013; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.6: PERMIT ISSUANCE BASED ON DRAWING SELECTIONS:
   A.   All eligible organizations shall obtain and submit to the fire
department the following forms supplied by the fire department. Forms will be
supplied to those organizations whose drawn assigned number is sequentially
within the total number of permits to be issued. All other applicants will be
placed on a waiting list in the sequence of their drawn assigned number. If an
applicant does not satisfy the requirements of this section within the time
periods identified in this section, the next drawn assigned number on the
waiting list will be notified and provided with the following paperwork:
      1.   The property owner’s release form signed by the property owner
authorizing permission to erect a fireworks stand on his property;
      2.   The fireworks storage form indicating where and how the fireworks
will be stored when not in the approved stand;
      3.   The state fire marshal’s license to sell safe and sane fireworks;
      4.   A copy of the temporary seller’s permit issued by the state board of
equalization; and
         a.   The certificate of insurance required by section
12-2.14 of this article.
         b.   A statement of organization eligibility.
         c.   A site plan indicating location of stand, distance to nearest
building, ingress, egress, parking, etc.
   B.   These forms must be returned to the fire department by the last
business day of March.
   C.   No permit issued or authorized shall be transferable or assignable.
   D.   When all the application requirements have been completed and the
fireworks stand location has been approved, the fire department shall authorize
the erection of a fireworks stand. Each qualified organization shall pay to the
administrative services director or designee a permit fee amount as listed in
the master administrative fee schedule amended from time to time by resolution
of the city council. This fee will include a refundable cleanup deposit. Each
permit shall be for only one stand per eligible organization and shall be
forwarded to the fire department for delivery as set forth in subsection E of
this section.
   E.   Permits will be effective only when issued by the fire department after
the final inspection of the stand shows compliance with all the requirements of
this article. (Ord. 1650 § 3, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011; Ord. 1799, 11-5-
2013; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.7: PERIOD OF DISCHARGE:
Safe and sane fireworks, as defined by section 12529 of the California Health
And Safety Code, as amended (“fireworks”), may be discharged within the city
limits of the city of Porterville (“city”) during the period beginning at
twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on June 28 and ending at eleven fifty nine o’clock
(11:59) P.M. on July 4 of any year. (Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.8: PROHIBITIONS ON DISCHARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite, explode, project, or otherwise
fire or use, or permit the ignition, explosion or projection of any fireworks
upon, over, or onto the private property of another, or to ignite, explode,
project, or otherwise fire or make use of any fireworks within fifteen feet
(15') of any residence, dwelling or any other structure, public property,
fields or waterway. (Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.9: TIME PERIOD FOR SALE:
Safe and sane fireworks” may be sold within the city limits of the city of
Porterville during the period beginning twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on June 28
and ending at ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on July 4. The hours of operation of any
stand shall be limited to nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
daily during the days identified in this article, except that hours of
operation of any stand on June 28 shall commence at twelve o’clock (12:00)
noon. (Ord. 1650 § 3, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.10: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   The manufacture of fireworks is prohibited within the jurisdiction.
   B.   No person shall possess, sell, deliver, deal in, use, explode or fire,
or cause to be used, exploded or fired, any form of fireworks designated as
“dangerous fireworks” by section 12505 of the Health And Safety Code of the
state of California.
   C.   The possession, sale, delivery, dealing in, use, exploding or firing of
any form of fireworks designated as “safe and sane fireworks” by section 12529
of the Health and Safety Code of the state of California is expressly
prohibited, except as limited by this article.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to store any fireworks in any residence, home,
garage, or automobile within the city of Porterville. It shall also be unlawful
to store any fireworks in any building or other place within the city of
Porterville without having first applied for and received a permit pursuant to
section
12-2.2 of this article.
   E.   No fireworks shall be stored within one hundred feet (100') of any
gasoline service station or any garage located within twenty five feet (25') of
any other structure. Any facility for the storage of fireworks shall maintain a
minimum setback from the street curbing of ten feet (10').
   F.   No person shall light, or cause or permit to be lighted, any fireworks,
or any other article or material, within any structure approved for fireworks
storage, or within fifty feet (50') thereof.
   G.   No smoking shall be allowed in any structure that is used for storing
fireworks nor within fifty feet (50') of said structure. “No Smoking” signs
shall be prominently displayed. (Ord. 1650 § 4, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011)
   H.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, “piccolo pete”, “whistling
pete”, or “whistling phantom” type fireworks (including other fireworks of
similar design, construction and performance) shall not be manufactured,
possessed, delivered, used, discharged, displayed, or sold separately or in
combination with otherwise allowed fireworks. The possession, manufacture,
storage, sale, handling, use, and discharge of fireworks of this type are
subject to the penalties outlined in Section
12-2.20.A of this Code. (Ord. 1650 § 4, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011; Ord.
1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.11: REGULATIONS RELATED TO FIREWORKS SALES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any eligible organization to which a permit
has been issued:
      1.   To operate in violation of California Code of Regulations title 19,
chapter 6, regulating the storage, transportation, sale and use of fireworks.
      2.   To obtain or use more than one permit for one stand per year.
      3.   To fail to clear all flammable or burnable materials within thirty
feet (30') from any fireworks stand and to maintain such conditions during the
period prescribed for the sale of fireworks.
      4.   To allow smoking within fifty feet (50') of any such business
location or stand or to fail to post “No Smoking” signs with such wording in
red letters not less than four inches (4") in height on a white background on
all sides of any such stand.
      5.   To fail to have immediately available within the stand a certified
fire extinguisher or other fire extinguishing device of a type approved by the
fire department.
      6.   To sell fireworks earlier than twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on June
28 or later than ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on July 4.
      7.   To fail to dismantle and remove any stand or structure of any nature
where fireworks were sold as of five o’clock (5:00) P.M. July 8.
      8.   To sell fireworks to persons under sixteen (16) years of age.
   B.   No person other than a member (or their spouse) of the organization or
a volunteer who is associated with the organization having a permit shall be
permitted to sell or otherwise participate in the sale of fireworks. All
fireworks stands shall have the safety regulations posted inside the stand in
an approved location. The size of the safety poster will be approved and
provided by the fire department. A maximum of one member for every four (4)
linear feet of stand is permitted within the stand at any one time (i.e., if
the stand is 32 feet long, 32 divided by 4 equals 8 members allowed in the
stand) and all persons selling fireworks must be at least eighteen (18) years
old.
   C.   No sleeping inside the fireworks stand will be permitted at any time.
   D.   No person shall use or handle fireworks while under the influence of
intoxicating liquids or narcotics. Alcohol and narcotics are prohibited within
the fireworks stand.
   E.   All electrical/spark producing appliances (fans, coolers, air
conditioners, etc.) are prohibited inside the fireworks stands and shall not
block the means of egress.
   F.   Those fireworks which are classified as “dangerous” fireworks under
Section 12505 of the California Health and Safety Code are prohibited, except
that such fireworks as are defined and classified as “safe and sane fireworks”
in Section 12529 of the California Health and Safety Code may be displayed,
sold and used pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and not otherwise.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, “piccolo pete”, “whistling pete”, or
“whistling phantom” type fireworks (including other fireworks of similar
design, construction and performance) shall not be manufactured, possessed,
delivered, used, discharged, displayed, or sold separately or in combination
with otherwise allowed fireworks. The possession, manufacture, storage, sale,
handling, use, and discharge of fireworks of this type are subject to the
penalties outlined in Section
12-2.20.A of this Code. (Ord. 1650 § 4, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011; Ord.
1799, 11-5-2013; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.12: FIREWORKS STANDS; REQUIREMENTS:
All retail sales of “safe and sane fireworks” shall be permitted only from
within a temporary fireworks stand and sales from any other building or
structure is prohibited. Temporary stands shall be subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   No fireworks stand shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of
any other building or within one hundred feet (100') of a gasoline pump, or
within one hundred feet (100') of another fireworks stand, when measured
closest point to closest point. Canopies within ten feet (10') of a stand shall
be considered an extension of the stand for measurement of setback distances.
Minimum setback from the street curbing, alley, or driveway shall be ten feet
(10'). Stands shall not cover or impede any public rights of way.
   B.   No stand shall have a floor area in excess of four hundred (400) square
feet. The width and length of each stand shall be a maximum of ten feet by
forty feet (10' x 40'), respectively.
   C.   Each stand must have at least two (2) exits located on separate walls.
Fireworks stands with only three (3) sides and open from the back will not
require exits. Fireworks stands shall have exits at least thirty inches (30")
in width at both ends of the structure. An aisle with a minimum width of thirty
inches (30") shall lead to each exit. Exits shall remain unobstructed. No
supplies or other materials shall be stored in front of exit doors. All exit
doors shall remain unlocked and unlatched whenever the stand is occupied.
   D.   Each stand shall keep easily accessible a minimum of one 21/2-gallon
water pressure type fire extinguisher and one 2A10BC rated dry chemical fire
extinguisher and each shall be in good working order and bear a current
inspection sticker. Extinguishers must be of a type approved for such use by
the Porterville fire department.
   E.   All stands must be constructed of solid wood or metal.
   F.   After hours, stands must be properly secured or a security guard must
be provided to patrol the premises. Under no circumstances shall the night
watchman sleep within the fireworks stand.
   G.   All unsold stock and accompanying litter shall be removed from the
location by five o’clock (5:00) P.M. July 5.
   H.   Fireworks stand may be brought to the site one week prior to June 28
and must be dismantled and removed by five o’clock (5:00) P.M. July 8.
   I.   Temporary lighting may be installed in the fireworks stands. Approved
temporary lights must have a guard protecting the bulb/fixture and all wiring
and fixtures must be 3-wire and grounded.
   J.   Primary power to the temporary lighting may be by means of on site
commercial power in a fixed facility or by means of an on site portable
generator. Generators must be located at least twenty five feet (25') from the
fireworks stand. Location of portable generators must be approved by fire
department.
   K.   Fuel for portable generators is not allowed to be kept on the premises.
   L.   No switches, electrical receptacles (plug ins), or splices are
permitted within the stand.
   M.   Extension cords to the stand are to be heavy duty, minimum of fifteen
(15) amp capacity, and protected from vehicular damage. Romex is not an
acceptable extension cord.
   N.   All trash shall be removed from the premises and the fireworks stand
each evening at the close of business.
   O.   No person shall light, or cause or permit to be lighted, any fireworks
or any other article or material within any such stand, or within fifty feet
(50') thereof.
   P.   No alcoholic beverages shall be allowed on the premises. No person who
is under the influence of alcoholic beverages shall enter or be allowed into
the sales booth.
   Q.   Signage will be clearly displayed at each site providing for the fines
as specified in section
12-2.20 of this article.
   R.   Canopies within twenty five feet (25') of a stand must be labeled by
the manufacturer as fire resistive. The total allowable canopy area within
twenty five feet (25') of a stand shall be no larger than two hundred (200)
square feet.
   S.   Canopies within twenty five feet (25') of a stand shall meet the
requirements set forth in the California code of regulations title 24, part 9,
chapter 24 and title 19, division 1. (Ord. 1650 § 4, 4-6-2004; Ord. 1776, 4-5-
2011; Ord. 1799, 11-5-2013; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.13: FIREWORKS STANDS; LOCATIONS:
   A.   In no instance shall any fireworks stand be located within a
residential zoned district.
   B.   No stand shall be located closer than one hundred feet (100') from
another. (Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.14: CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE:
Prior to the issuance of a permit, the eligible organization shall procure a
certificate of insurance acceptable to the city. The certificate shall name the
city of Porterville, its officers, agents, employees and volunteers as
“additional insured”. The certificate shall evidence coverage in an amount
determined by the city’s risk manager; providing, however, the amount shall not
be less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined bodily injury and
property damage for each occurrence, and the deductible, if any, shall not be
greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The certificate shall specify
the time, location, and dates to be covered by the policy. The certificate
shall be provided to the fire department no later than five o’clock (5:00) P.M.
on the last regular business day in March of the subject year or at such other
time as the chief of the fire department may allow. (Ord. 1330, 5-7-1985; Ord.
1568, 1-19-1999; Ord. 1601, 5-1-2001; Ord. 1799, 11-5-2013; Ord. 1882, 5-4-
2021)
12-2.15: STATE FIREWORKS LAW:
The provisions of this article shall be construed so as not to conflict with
the state fireworks law. (Ord. 1330, 5-7-1985; Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999; Ord. 1601,
5-1-2001; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.16: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
Any violation of this article or other city laws, or the terms and conditions
of the permit, or state laws or administrative regulations, or safety rules of
the fire department shall be grounds for the immediate revocation of the
permit. All officers, agents, and employees of the eligible organization shall
be responsible for compliance with all the provisions of this article. (Ord.
1330, 5-7-1985; Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999; Ord. 1601, 5-1-2001; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.17: NONISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
The final decision to issue permits shall rest with the fire chief. In cases
such as civil unrest, severe drought conditions, or any other such situation
deemed to be harmful or to have the possibility of creating an extreme hazard
to persons and/or property the fire chief shall be the final authority in
granting permits for fireworks sales. The right to refuse permits to applicants
who have violated the regulations in this article in previous years shall also
rest with the fire chief. (Ord. 1330, 5-7-1985; Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999; Ord.
1601, 5-1-2001; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.18: SEIZURE OF FIREWORKS:
The fire chief shall have the authority to seize, take, remove, or cause to be
removed at the expense of the owner, all stocks of fireworks offered or exposed
for sale, stored, or held in violation of this article. (Ord. 1776, 4-5-2011;
Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.19: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this article shall be construed as prohibiting the use of torpedoes,
flares, or fuses by railroads or other transportation agencies for signal
purposes of illumination; or the sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial
purposes, athletic, or sports events or military ceremonials or demonstrations;
or the sale, discharge or display of fireworks by permittees having a permit as
herein provided; or the use and display of fireworks of whatever nature by any
person engaged in the production of motion pictures, theatricals, or operas
when such use and display is a necessary part of such production; or the
transportation of fireworks through the city in regular course, and in original
packages or containers from any point outside of the city to any other point
outside the city. (Ord. 1330, 5-7-1985; Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999; Ord. 1601, 5-1-
2001; Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.20: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   The maximum fines for any violation related to the improper use, or any
violation of the provisions outlined in this Chapter for the manufacture,
possession, sale, delivery, use, or discharge of “Safe and Sane” fireworks
within the City of Porterville, or any other violation of this Chapter other
than the violations set forth in subsection (B) below, or unless otherwise
specified in this Chapter, shall be:
      1.   One-thousand dollars ($1,000) for the first offense; and
      2.   Two-thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) for the second offense
within 36 months of the previous violation; and
      3.   Five-thousand dollars ($5,000) for each subsequent offense within 36
months of the previous violation.
   B.   The maximum fines for the manufacture, possession, sale, delivery, use,
or discharge of dangerous fireworks within the city of Porterville shall be:
      1.   Two-thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) for the first offense;
and
      2.   Five-thousand dollars ($5,000) for the second offense within 36
months of the previous violation; and
      3.   Ten-thousand dollars ($10,000) for each subsequent offense within 36
months of the previous violation.
   C.   Any administrative fine or administrative civil penalty assessed
pursuant to this Chapter 12-2, shall provide for cost reimbursement to the
Office of the State Fire Marshal and the collection of disposal costs pursuant
to Health and Safety Code Section 12557.
   D.   Chapter 12-2 shall be limited to apply only to a person, organization,
group, association, etc., who possesses or the seizure of 25 pounds or less of
dangerous fireworks.
   E.   Any administrative fine or administrative civil penalty collected
pursuant to this Chapter 12-2, shall not be subject to Health and Safety Code
Section 12706, Disposition of Fines and Forfeitures. (Ord. 1799, 11-5-2013;
Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.21: SOCIAL HOST:
   A.   Findings, Intent and Purpose.
      1.   Findings. The City Council, pursuant to the police powers delegated
to it by the California Constitution, has the authority to enact laws which
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its residents. The
illegal possession, manufacture, storage, sale, handling, use, and discharge of
fireworks, defined as “Dangerous Fireworks” in Section
12-2.1 of this code, on private property is harmful to and creates a threat to
public health, safety, quiet enjoyment of residential property and the general
welfare. While the discharge of illegal fireworks can be tied to a particular
residence or property, it is often difficult to tell who at the residence or
property discharged the illegal firework(s). The owner or tenant of the
premises is often in the best position to control, and knows or should know of
the possession, manufacture, storage, sale, handling, use, or discharge of
illegal fireworks on his/her residence or commercial premises. The City Council
finds that in too many cases, persons having possession or control of private
property where the illegal possession, manufacture, storage, sale, handling and
use of fireworks occurs, have failed to ensure that illegal fireworks are not
possessed, manufactured, stored, sold, handled, used, or discharged on their
property. Furthermore, problems associated with the illegal possession,
manufacture, storage, sale, handling, use and discharge of fireworks are
difficult to prevent and deter unless the Fire Chief, Police Chief, or other
designated official of the City of Porterville has the legal authority to cite
the owner or tenant of the premises where illegal fireworks are possessed,
manufactured, stored, sold, handled, used or discharged.
      2.   Intent. The intent of this section is to protect the public health,
safety, quiet enjoyment of residential property, and general welfare, rather
than to punish. An ordinance that imposes liability on property owners or
tenants for allowing the possession, manufacture, storage, sale, handling or
use of illegal fireworks on their property is necessary to deter and prevent
such possession, manufacture, storage, sale, handling, use, or discharge and to
deter persons who actively and passively aid, allow, or tolerate such
activities on their property.
      3.   Purposes. The purposes of this section are to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare, to deter the possession, manufacture,
storage, sale, handling, use or discharge of illegal fireworks, and to reduce
the costs of providing police, fire, and other emergency response services to
areas where illegal fireworks are being possessed, manufactured, stored, sold,
handled, used, or discharged. These purposes are implemented by the imposition
of a civil money penalty against social hosts (landowners or tenants) who
actively or passively aid, allow or tolerate the possession, manufacture,
storage, sale, handling, use, or discharge of illegal fireworks on their
property.
      4.   Declaration. For these reasons, the City Council declares that the
possession, manufacture, storage, sale, handling, use, or discharge of illegal
fireworks is a threat to the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
public. Such actions constitute a public nuisance as they affect at the same
time the entire community of the City of Porterville as well as the
neighborhoods in which they occur. The nuisance created thereby presents an
immediate threat to the public health and safety, warranting summary abatement
by the Fire Chief, Police Chief, or other City of Porterville designated
official under Government Code Section 38773.
   B.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
 
RESIDENCE   A home, yard, apartment, condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling
or OTHER    unit, or a hall, meeting room, office, land or building, whether occupied on a
PRIVATE     temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling, business, or
PROPERTY:   location for parties or other social functions, and whether owned, leased,
            rented, or used with or without compensation.
            A person or persons with a right of possession of the residence or other private
            property at which illegal fireworks are possessed, manufactured, stored, handled,
            used or discharged, including but not limited to:
            a.   Any owner of the residence or other private property, meaning the record
            owner of the title to property as of the time of the possession, manufacture,
            storage, sale, handling or use of illegal fireworks, wherever that person or
            entity resides at that time;
            b.   A tenant or lessee of the residence or other private property at the time
            when illegal fireworks are possessed, manufactured, stored, handled, used or
            discharged;
RESPONSIBLE c.   The person(s) in charge of the residence or other private property at the
PERSON:     time when illegal fireworks are possessed, manufactured, stored, sold, handled,
            used or discharged;
            d.   The person(s) who organizes, supervises, officiates, conducts or controls
            the gathering or any other person(s) accepting responsibility for such a
            gathering where illegal fireworks are possessed, manufactured, stored, sold,
            handled, used or discharged.
            A responsible person need not be present at the time illegal fireworks are
            possessed, manufactured, stored, sold, handled, used, or discharged in order for
            the City of Porterville to impose civil money penalties upon such responsible
            person. Prior knowledge of the possession, use, manufacture, storage, sale,
            handling, use, or discharge of illegal fireworks is not prerequisite to a finding
            that any specific individual is a responsible person as defined by this section.
 
   C.   Responsibility for Proper Property Management. Every owner, occupant,
lessee, tenant or holder of any possessory interest of a residence or other
private property within the City of Porterville is required to maintain, manage
and supervise the property and all persons thereon in a manner so as not to
violate the provision of this section. The owner of the property may remain
liable for such violations regardless of any contract or agreement with any
third party regarding the property.
   D.   Penalties for Violation.
      1.   It is a civil violation of this section, and a public nuisance
constituting an immediate threat to public health and safety warranting all
remedies otherwise permitted by this Code including but not limited to summary
abatement, for any responsible person to conduct or allow illegal possession,
manufacture, storage, sale, handling, use, or discharge of fireworks on his/her
residential or other private property. Such a violation additionally subjects
any and all responsible persons to the civil money penalties specified in
Section
12-2.10.B of this code.
      2.   In the event that a juvenile hosts a gathering at a residence or
other private property at which illegal possession, manufacture, storage, sale,
handling, use, or discharge of fireworks occurs, then the parents or guardians
of that juvenile will be jointly and severally liable for any penalties
incurred pursuant to this section.
   E.   Social host liability.
      1.   The City, in its discretion, may opt to not hold a private property
owner liable under this section for a violation of Sections
12-2.7,
12-2.8, or
12-2.10, on that property if the owner can demonstrate that at the time of such
violation if they:
         a.   Had rented or leased the property to another;
         b.   Were not present;
         c.   Had no prior knowledge of, or reason to know of the violation;
and
         d.   There has been no prior notice of violation or citation issued to
the particular occupant at the premises.
      2.   No person who has the right to use, possess or occupy a unit in a
multifamily residential property under a lease, rental agreement or contract
shall be liable under this section for violations of Sections
12-2.7,
12-2.8, or
12-2.10 occurring in the common areas of the property, solely on the basis of
that right to use, possess or occupy that unit.
      3.    Nothing in this section shall limit the liability of any social
host for a violation of Section
12-2.7,
12-2.8, or
12-2.10 by the social host.
   F.   Additional Remedies/Penalties. Violations may be deemed a misdemeanor
or infraction. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty
of an infraction or a misdemeanor at the discretion of the city attorney. Upon
conviction, the person is subject to punishment by as prescribed in Section
1-9 and any other applicable available remedies in this Code. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, that person shall also be responsible for all costs
associated with the safe disposal of all confiscated fireworks as well as all
expenses, costs, fees and fines associated with the investigation of the
charges, as well as all expenses and costs associated with any emergency
response, by fire, police, building and safety and code enforcement departments
as a result of a violation.
   G.   Administrative citation and fine.
      1.   A peace officer or code enforcement officer may issue an
administrative citation and fine for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter as provided in Chapter 2, Article XIV of the Porterville Municipal
Code, without prior issuance of a notice of violation. In addition to the
proscribed penalties, and to the fullest extent permitted by law, the person
shall also be responsible for all costs associated with the safe disposal of
all confiscated fireworks as well as all expenses, costs, fees and fines
associated with the investigation of the charges, as well as all expenses and
costs associated with any emergency response, by fire, police, animal control,
building and safety, and code enforcement departments as a result of a
violation.
      2.   The administrative citation fines shall be as defined in Section
12-2.20.
      3.   All administrative citation procedures, including appeal procedures,
as set forth in Chapter 2, Article XIV of the Porterville Municipal Code shall
be applicable to administrative citations issued for violations of this
chapter.
   H.   Remedies cumulative. The remedies provided in this chapter are not to
be construed as exclusive remedies and, in the event of violation, the city may
pursue any proceedings or remedies otherwise provided by law.
   I.   Assessment against property for unpaid costs. If the administrative
costs and the cost of removal which are charged against the owner of a parcel
of land pursuant to Sections
12-2.18,
12-2.20, and this section
12-2.21 are not paid within thirty days of the date of the order, or the final
disposition of an appeal therefrom, such costs may be assessed against the
parcel of land pursuant to Section 38773.5 of the Government Code and may be
transmitted to the tax collector for collection. Said assessment shall have the
same priority as other city taxes.
   J.   Cost assessment. If the City opts for enforcement pursuant to
subsection I. above, City officials investigating the firework abatement matter
shall keep an account of the cost of abatement on each separate lot or parcel
of land where the work is done. After confirmation of an account report, on or
before August 10 of each year, a certified copy of the confirmed report shall
be filed with the Tulare County auditor for the amounts of the respective
assessments against the respective parcels of land as they appear on the
current assessment roll. They shall be subject to the same penalties and the
same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for property taxes.
All laws and ordinances applicable to the levy collection and enforcement of
city taxes are made applicable to such special assessments, and the lien of
said assessment shall have priority of the taxes with which it is collected.
(Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
12-2.22: REWARD PROGRAM:
The City Council is authorized to establish, by Resolution, a reward program,
using funds consisting of fines collected from firework violations, to pay to
individuals providing information leading to the identification and successful
criminal or civil prosecution of any person violating the Porterville City Code
related to the unlawful possession, use, manufacture, storage, sale, handling,
use, or discharge of dangerous fireworks. (Ord. 1882, 5-4-2021)
ARTICLE III. WEEDS, RUBBISH, LITTER, TIRE AND HAZARD ABATEMENT
SECTION:
12-3.1: Definitions
12-3.2: Enforcement Agency
12-3.3: Maintaining Sidewalks And Gutters
12-3.4: Nuisance; Authority To Abate
12-3.5: Annual Notices
12-3.6: Form And Manner Of Notice
12-3.7: Hearing
12-3.8: Abatement By City
12-3.9: Account And Record Of Cost
12-3.10: Notice Of Report
12-3.11: Hearing On Cost Assessment
12-3.12: Collection On Tax Roll
12-3.13: Procedure Not Exclusive
12-3.14: Violations; Penalties
12-3.15: Immediate Danger; Summary Abatement
12-3.16: Charge For Fire Suppression Services
12-3.1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, certain words and phrases are defined and certain
provisions are to be construed as herein set forth, unless it shall be apparent
from the context that a different meaning is intended:
   ABATE: To repair or replace, remove, destroy or otherwise remedy the
condition in question by such means and in such a manner and to such an extent
as the enforcement officer in his/her judgment shall determine is necessary in
the interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
   ABATEMENT STANDARDS: Those minimum requirements set forth by the enforcement
officer by which property shall be abated and maintained in order to comply
with section
12-3.4 of this article.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The chief of the fire department of the city and shall
include any official or officials in the fire department duly appointed by said
chief or the city manager to administer the provisions of this article.
   PREMISES: Any building, lot or parcel of real estate or land or portion of
land, whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks, parking
strips and alleys.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The owner of any premises and/or any agent, lessee or
other person occupying or having charge or control of the same.
   RUBBISH: Waste material including, but not limited to, garbage, waste paper
and debris from construction or demolition.
   WEEDS: All undesired plants of rank or profuse growth growing upon streets,
alleys, sidewalks or private property in the city and including, but not
limited to, any of the following:
   A.   Weeds which bear or may bear seeds of a wing or downy nature;
   B.   Weeds and indigenous grasses which may attain such large growth as to
become, when dry, a fire menace to adjacent property;
   C.   Weeds which are otherwise noxious or dangerous;
   D.   Poison oak and poison ivy when the conditions of growth are such as to
constitute a menace to public health. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.2: ENFORCEMENT AGENCY:
Porterville fire department shall have jurisdiction to administer the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.3: MAINTAINING SIDEWALKS AND GUTTERS:
The occupant or tenant, or in the absence of the occupant or tenant, the owner,
lessee, or proprietor of any real property in the city in front of which there
are a paved sidewalk and/or curb and gutter, shall maintain said sidewalk and/
or curb and gutter free of dirt, litter, weeds, residues from disking and other
debris. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.4: NUISANCE; AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
   A.   Each of the following conditions is declared to constitute a public
nuisance, and whenever an enforcement officer shall determine that any of the
conditions exist upon any premises, he/she may require or provide for the
abatement thereof pursuant to this article and make the costs of abatement a
lien on the subject real property:
      1.   The existence of weeds on the premises, or public sidewalks, curbs
and gutters, streets or alleys in front of, adjacent to or behind said
premises;
      2.   The existence of any accumulation of wastepaper, hay, grass, straw,
weeds, litter, debris or combustible trash upon any roof or in any building,
entranceway, court, yard, vacant lot or open space; or of any weeds, grass,
vines or other growth, when the same endangers property or is liable to be
fired;
      3.   The existence of any garbage or rubbish upon the premises contrary
to the provisions of section
13-4 of this code;
      4.   The existence of any vines or climbing plants growing into or over
any street, tree or any public hydrant, pole or electrifier; or the existence
of any shrub, plant or vine growing on, around or in front of any hydrant,
alarm box, standpipe, sprinkler system connection or any other appliance or
facility provided for fire protection purposes, in such a way as to obscure the
view thereof or impair the access thereto by the fire department;
      5.   The existence of an excessive amount of tires on property that does
not conform with commercial use as set by the zoning ordinance of the city of
Porterville;
      6.   Any dead, or dying, trees, shrubs, plants and any dead palm fronds;
      7.   A vacant structure that is not secured against unauthorized entry
shall be deemed unsafe;
      8.   Any other condition or use of property which is in fact a fire
hazard or which results or can result in the impairment of the ability of the
fire department to respond to and suppress fires.
   B.   The occupant or tenant, or in the absence of the occupant or a tenant,
the owner, lessee or proprietor of any real property in the city, shall be
responsible for the removal or destruction of all such weeds and other debris
as set forth in this section from his property and from the abutting half of
any street or alley between lot lines as extended.
   C.   The enforcement officer and/or his/her authorized representatives shall
have the authority to determine the amount and types of weeds and other debris
which constitute a nuisance pursuant to this section and must therefore be
abated. The decision of said enforcement officer shall be final. (Ord. 1568, 1-
19-1999; Ord. 1899, 11-15-2022)
12-3.5: ANNUAL NOTICES:
   A.   The enforcement officer is authorized and directed to annually declare
that the existence of any of the conditions set forth in section
12-3.4 of this article constitute a public nuisance and direct that notice of
such declaration shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city. Said declaration shall be made on or before April 1, of each
year. Said notice shall further direct all such persons to abate any conditions
set forth in section
12-3.4 of this article which may exist on said person's property or to appear
before the city's fire marshal at a stated time and place to show cause why
such conditions should not be abated by the city at such person's expense.
   B.   Said notice shall also be mailed to the owner and/or other responsible
persons of real property which is, or may be in violation of section
12-3.4 of this article. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.6: FORM AND MANNER OF NOTICE:
   A.   The notice required pursuant to section
12-3.5 of this article shall be substantially in the following form:
   APN. NO.         
   TO THE PROPERTY OWNER:
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that on  (date) ,  (year) , pursuant to Section
12-3.5 of the Municipal Code of the City of Porterville, the Chief of the Fire
Department of the City of Porterville declares that the following conditions
set forth in Section
12-3.4 of said Municipal Code constitute a public nuisance and that such a
nuisance must be abated by the destruction or removal of said conditions:
   A. The existence of weeds on the premises or public sidewalks, curbs and
gutters, streets or alleys in front of, adjacent to or behind said premises.
   B. The existence of any accumulation of wastepaper, hay, grass, straw,
weeds, litter, debris, tires, or combustible trash upon any roof or in any
building, entrance way, court, yard, vacant lot or open space, or of any weeds,
grass, vines or other growth when the same endangers property or is liable to
be fired.
   C. The existence of any garbage or rubbish upon the premises contrary to the
provisions of Section
13-4 of the Municipal Code.
   D. The existence of any vines or climbing plants growing into or over the
street, tree or any public hydrant, pole or electrolier; or the existence of
any shrub, plant or vine growing on, around or in front of any hydrant, alarm
box, standpipe, sprinkler system connection or any other appliance or facility
provided for fire protection purposes, in such a way as to obscure the view
thereof or impair the access thereto by the Porterville Fire Department.
   E. The existence of an excessive amount of tires on property that does not
conform with commercial use as set by the Zoning Ordinance of the City of
Porterville.
   F. Any other condition or use of property which is in fact a fire hazard or
which results, or can result, in the impairment of the ability of the
Porterville Fire Department to respond to and suppress fires.
Destruction and/or removal of said conditions must be completed and maintained
by  (date) ,  (year)  in accordance with the attached Fire Prevention Bureau
"Abatement Standards".
Failure to abate said conditions by the date specified above, shall result in
the City acquiring jurisdiction to abate the conditions at the owner's expense
pursuant to Section
12-3.9 of the Municipal Code.
All property owners who wish to object to the proposed removal of weeds,
rubbish, refuse, tires and dirt are hereby notified that they have the right to
attend a meeting with a representative of the Porterville Fire Department to be
held at Porterville Fire Station No. 1, 40 West Cleveland Avenue, Porterville,
California, on  (date) ,  (year)  at  (time) . Sufficient cause must be shown
why said conditions should not be abated.
Charges. Property owners or responsible persons who through their inaction have
caused the City of Porterville to have their nuisance abated, are deemed to
have committed a misdemeanor or infraction pursuant to Section
12-3.14 and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment of not more than six (6)
months in the City or county jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The
property owner or responsible person shall be liable for actual costs of
abating such nuisance as defined herein.
Any costs incurred for such abatement will constitute a special assessment on
the property. The cost of abating such nuisances shall include a charge of
$         per parcel to cover the costs of administering this Article.
MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION
12-3.11 PROVIDES THAT AFTER THE ASSESSMENT IS MADE AND CONFIRMED, IT IS A LIEN
ON THE PROPERTY.
Any property owner, or other responsible person, who, after notification by the
Enforcement Officer, fails to abate a condition as set forth in Section
12-3.4 shall become liable for the expenses of fighting any fire which may
occur which is determined to have been caused by or attributed to said
conditions. Such expenses shall become a lien upon the property.
THE FAILURE OF ANY OWNER OR OTHER PERSON TO RECEIVE THIS NOTICE SHALL NOT
AFFECT THE ENFORCEMENT OF THIS ORDINANCE.
   B.   A copy of this notice shall be sent to the owner of the premises and
may also be sent to any other of said persons sought to be charged with the
responsibility of abatement. The notice shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid,
and addressed to the owner as such person's name and address appear on the last
equalized assessment roll of the county of Tulare, or as known to the
enforcement officer or other person authorized to give such notice. The notice
to any other person to be charged with the responsibility of abatement shall be
sent by mail, postage prepaid and addressed to such person as his/her name and
address are known to the enforcement officer or the person authorized to give
notice.
   C.   The failure of any owner or other person to receive this notice shall
not affect the enforcement of this article. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.7: HEARING:
At the time fixed in the notice provided pursuant to section
12-3.6 of this article, the fire marshal or his/her designated representative
shall hear and consider any and all objections to the proposed abatement of
such conditions, and may continue the hearing as necessary. The enforcement
officer shall have the opportunity to respond to any such objections. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the fire marshal shall rule on all such objections.
In cases where the fire marshal overrules an objection, the city shall be
deemed to have acquired jurisdiction to proceed and perform the work necessary
to abate the conditions causing such nuisance if said property owner or other
responsible person fails to abate said nuisance on or before the date set forth
in the notice. The affected property owners or other responsible person, may
appeal the decision of the enforcement officer to the city council by filing a
written appeal. The appeal must be filed with the city clerk within ten (10)
calendar days of the date of the decision of the enforcement officer. Any
property owner or other responsible person who fails to appear at said hearing
and present objections shall be deemed to have waived the right to present any
such objections and the city shall thereafter have the jurisdiction to proceed
and perform any work necessary to abate the conditions causing such nuisance
upon the expiration of the time allowed in the notice to the property owner.
(Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.8: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Upon the expiration of the time period set forth in the notice to property
owners pursuant to section
12-3.6 of this article, the city shall acquire jurisdiction to abate any such
condition constituting a nuisance pursuant to section
12-3.6 of this article which has not been abated by the property owner in
question or which has been deemed to constitute a nuisance in the course of the
hearing process set forth above. Whenever the city has acquired jurisdiction to
abate such a nuisance, the enforcement officer or his/her designee is expressly
authorized to enter upon private property for purposes of abating such
conditions and the cost thereof shall be charged to the owner and/or other
responsible person. Any property owner or responsible person shall have the
right to abate said condition, or have the same abated at their own expense;
provided, such condition has been abated prior to the arrival of the
enforcement officer or his/her authorized representative to do so. (Ord. 1568,
1-19-1999)
12-3.9: ACCOUNT AND RECORD OF COST:
The enforcement officer shall keep an account of the cost of abating such
nuisance and shall embody such account in the report and assessment list which
shall be filed with the city clerk and presented to the city council. The
allowable cost of abating such nuisance shall include a charge sufficient to
cover the costs of administering this article. Said administrative charge shall
be determined by the city council by resolution. The report and assessment list
shall refer to each separate lot or parcel of land by description sufficient to
identify such lot or parcel, together with the charge proposed to be assessed
against each such separate lot or parcel. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.10: NOTICE OF REPORT:
The city clerk shall post a copy of such report and assessment list at the city
hall, together with the notice of filing thereof and of the time and place when
and where it will be submitted to the city council for hearing and
confirmation. Said notice shall advise property owners that they may appear at
the time and place of hearing, and object to any matter related thereto. A like
notice shall also be mailed to each and every property owner and/or other
responsible person who owns or has control of any lot or parcel listed on said
report. The notice shall be sent by first class mail to the property owner at
the address appearing on the last equalized assessment roll of the county of
Tulare or to the last known address of the enforcement officer. Notice shall be
sent by first class mail to any other such responsible person at such person's
last address known to the enforcement officer. Such notice, as posted and
mailed, shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF HEARING
   ON REPORT AND ASSESSMENT FOR WEED, RUBBISH, LITTER, TIRE AND    HAZARD
ABATEMENT
Notice is hereby given that on  (date) ,  (year) , the Enforcement Officer of
the City of Porterville filed with the City Clerk of said City a report and
assessment on the abatement of weeds, rubbish and litter within the City, a
copy of which is posted on the bulletin board at the entrance to City Hall.
Notice is further given that on  (date) ,  (year) , at the hour of      m. in
the Council Chambers, of City Hall, said report and assessment list will be
presented to the City Council of said City for consideration and confirmation,
and that any and all persons interested, having any objection to said report,
and shall appear at said time and place and be heard.
   Dated:                        
   /s/                              
   City Clerk
(Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.11: HEARING ON COST ASSESSMENT:
At the time and place fixed for receiving and considering such report, the city
council shall hear the same together with any objections which may be raised by
any of the property owners or other responsible persons liable to be assessed
for the work of abating such nuisance, and said enforcement officer shall
attend such meeting with his/her record thereof. At the conclusion of such
hearing, the council may make such modifications in the proposed assessments as
it may deem necessary, after which such report and assessment list shall be
confirmed by resolution. The cost of abating such nuisance upon, adjacent to,
or in the front or rear of, the various lots or parcels of land respectively
referenced to in such reports, shall constitute special assessments against
such representative parcels or lots, and after thus made and confirmed, shall
constitute a lien on such property for the amount of such assessments, until
paid. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.12: COLLECTION ON TAX ROLL:
After confirmation of the report, a copy shall be provided to the city
administrative services director or designee, and payments may be received by
him/her for the amount due until such time as the matter is referred to the
Tulare County auditor for placement on the tax rolls. On or before August 10 of
each year, a certified copy of the confirmed report shall be filed with the
Tulare County auditor for the amounts of the respective assessments against the
respective parcels of land as they appear on the current assessment roll. They
shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case
of delinquency as provided for property taxes. All laws and ordinances
applicable to the levy collection and enforcement of city taxes are made
applicable to such special assessments, and the lien of said assessment shall
have priority of the taxes with which it is collected. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.13: PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The procedure provided in this article shall be cumulative and in addition to
any other procedure or procedures provided in ordinances of this city or by
state law for the abatement of any of the conditions described herein, and
abatement hereunder shall not prejudice or affect any other action, civil or
criminal, for the maintenance of any such condition. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article or its
amendments shall be guilty of a misdemeanor or infraction and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment of not more than six (6) months in the city or
county jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The property owner or
responsible person shall be liable for actual costs of abating such nuisance as
defined herein. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.15: IMMEDIATE DANGER; SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
Whenever any condition on or use of property causes or constitutes or
reasonably appears to constitute imminent or immediate danger to the health or
safety of the public or a significant portion thereof, any enforcement officer
or his/her authorized representative shall have the authority to summarily and
without notice abate the same. The expenses of such abatement shall become a
lien upon the property and be collectible as provided in sections
12-3.8 through
12-3.12, inclusive, of this article. (Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
12-3.16: CHARGE FOR FIRE SUPPRESSION SERVICES:
Any property owner, or other responsible person, who, after written
notification by the enforcement officer or his/her authorized representative,
fails to abate a condition constituting public nuisance as set forth in section
12-3.4 of this article shall become liable for the expenses of fighting a fire
which is determined by the fire department to have been caused by or attributed
to, in whole or part, said condition constituting such a public nuisance. Such
expenses shall be charged to the property owner and/or other responsible person
and shall become a lien upon the property and be collectible as provided in
sections
12-3.8 through
12-3.12 inclusive, of this article. The property owner or responsible person
shall be liable for actual costs of abating such nuisance as defined herein.
(Ord. 1568, 1-19-1999)
CHAPTER 13
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
13-1: Declaration Of Policy
13-2: Definitions
13-3: Rules Established
13-4: Unlawful Acts
13-5: Mandatory Service
13-6: Unlawful Disposition Of Solid Waste Generally
13-7: Residential Solid Waste Collection Service
13-8: Solid Waste Receptacles
13-9: Reserved
13-10: General Provisions
13-11: Bin Container Pads And Enclosures
13-12: Special Pick Up, Disposal And Collection Event Services
13-13: Enforcement; Powers And Duties Of City Manager Or His Designee
13-14: Charges For Collection; Time And Manner Of Payment
13-15: Building Design Requirements
13-16: Unlawful To Burn Solid Waste
13-17: Penalty For Contamination Of Yard Waste
13-18: Collection Of Recyclable Materials
13-19: Recycling Hauler Permit Requirement And Application
13-20: Refusal To Issue Permit
13-21: Term And Renewal
13-22: Reporting Requirements
13-23: Home Generated Sharps Waste Management Program
13-24: Penalty For Violation
13-25: Compliance With The Act And SB 1383 Regulatory Compliance
13-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to regulate the
collection, transport, and disposal of solid waste in order to protect the
public safety, health and welfare and to enhance the environment of the people
of Porterville. Further, it is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the
collection and disposition of recyclables generated within the city and to
establish reporting requirements and guidelines that shall be followed by
licensees to minimize the amount of such recyclables deposited into landfills.
(Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein unless their use in the text of this chapter clearly
demonstrates a different meaning:
              The California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989 (sometimes referred to as
ACT:          “AB 939"), Public Resources Code § 40000 and following as it may be amended, and
              as implemented by the regulations of CalRecycle.
ALLEY         Such service where solid waste containers are placed at the property line in
SERVICE:      through alleys.
BIN CONTAINER A stationary container supported on casters or skids and approved by the city
SERVICE:      manager or his designee for mechanical handling by the collection trucks.
CALRECYCLE:   The California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery, or its successor
              agency.
COMMERCIAL    includes a tier one or a tier two commercial edible food generator as defined in
EDIBLE FOOD   14 CCR Section 18982(a)(73) and (a)(74).
GENERATOR:
COMPACTED     Solid waste which is mechanically compressed to reduce the dimensions of the
WASTE:        waste.
CONSTRUCTION  Shall mean and include the waste building materials, packaging, and rubble
AND           resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition of pavements and
DEMOLITION    structures.
WASTES:
CURB SERVICE: Such service where the solid waste containers are picked up by the city at the
              front curb line of the customer’s property.
DISCARDED:    Thrown away, abandoned, worthless, or having lack of economic value.
              Food intended for human consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
              18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this chapter or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
EDIBLE FOOD:  Section 18982(a)(18), “edible food” is not solid waste if it is recovered and not
              discarded. Nothing in this chapter or in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 requires
              or authorizes the recovery of edible food that does not meet the food safety
              requirements of the California Retail Food Code.
              An entity that engages in the collection or receipt of edible food from commercial
              edible food generators and distributes that edible food to the public for food
              recovery either directly or through other entities or as otherwise defined in 14
FOOD RECOVERY CCR Section 18982(a)(25), including, but not limited to:
ORGANIZATION: A. A food bank as defined in Section 113783 of the Health and Safety Code;
              B. A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in Section 113841 of the Health
              and Safety code; and
              C. A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in Section 113842 of
              the Health and Safety Code.
FOOD RECOVERY An entity that collects and transports edible food from a commercial edible food
SERVICE:      generator to a food recovery organization or other entities for food recovery.
              A person who collects material from a generator and delivers it to a reporting
              entity, end user, or a destination outside of the state. “Hauler” includes public
HAULER:       contract haulers, private contract haulers, food waste self-haulers, and self-
              haulers. A person who transports material from a reporting entity to another
              person is a transporter, not a hauler.
              Those wastes resulting from products purchased by the general public for household
HOUSEHOLD     use which, because of their quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or
HAZARDOUS     infectious characteristics, may pose a substantial known or potential hazard to
WASTE:        human health or the environment when improperly treated, disposed, or otherwise
              managed. The city manager or his designee shall determine those substances deemed
              hazardous for the purpose of the city’s disposal system.
              Solid wastes or waste material resulting or left over from industrial processes
              and manufacturing operations, including, but not limited to, fibers, fabrics,
              plastics, styrofoam, rubber, resins, metals, slag, wood products such as sawdust
INDUSTRIAL    and shavings, packing materials, putrescible material from food processing plants
WASTE:        and slaughterhouses, condemned foods, cinders and ashes from power plants and
              incinerators, and miscellaneous manufacturing wastes. Such industrial waste is
              distinguished from ordinary commercial refuse or so called trade wastes which
              emanate from stores, hotels, restaurants, and markets.
MULTIPLE-     A building designed for residential occupancy and shall include duplexes,
FAMILY        triplexes, apartments of four (4) or more units, bungalows in a bungalow court,
DWELLING:     apartment houses, flats, condominium units, and mobile homes.
              Food scraps and trimmings from food preparation, including but not limited to:
ORGANIC       meat, fish and dairy waste, fruit and vegetable waste, grain waste, stable matter,
MATERIALS,    and acceptable food packaging items such as pizza boxes, paper towels, waxed
ORGANICS, and cardboard, food-contaminated paper products, plant debris, such as palm, yucca and
ORGANIC       cactus, ivy, grass clippings, leaves, pruning, weeds, branches, brush, and holiday
WASTE:        trees. Classification of materials subject to change pending Refuse Contractor
              processing capability.
ORGANIC WASTE A person or entity that is responsible for the initial creation of organic waste,
GENERATOR:    or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(48) of SB 1383.
              Shall include those materials that have value and can be diverted from landfill
              disposal. “Recyclables” can further be defined as those materials that by
RECYCLABLES:  collecting, sorting, cleansing, treating, reconstituting, and processing can be
              returned to the economic mainstream in the form of raw materials for new, reused,
              or reconstituted products.
              Rags, household ashes, wearing apparel, household goods and such worthless,
REFUSE or     useless, unused, rejected and cast off matter produced by and as the result of
GARBAGE:      human habitation and the transaction of business within the city, that can be
              properly and safely collected and transported in a collection vehicle.
RESIDENTIAL   All residentially zoned lots used for residential purposes, excluding premises
PREMISES:     with multi-family structures consisting of five or more units.
              The Short-Lived Climate Pollutants: Methane Emissions: Dairy and Livestock:
SB 1383:      Organic Waste: Landfills Act of 2016. Article 4 Title 14, Division 4, Chapter 12
              of the California Code of Regulations.
              A generator that collects solid waste at their premises or place of business for
SELF-HAULER:  the purpose of hauling those materials in their own vehicles to a permitted solid
              waste facility in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
SINGLE-FAMILY Any detached building used exclusively for occupancy by one family, excluding
DWELLING:     bungalows in a bungalow court, residential condominium units, and mobile homes.
              All putrescible and non-putrescible solid and semisolid wastes; including garbage,
              trash, refuse, paper, ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and construction
              wastes, abandoned vehicles and parts thereof, discarded home and industrial
SOLID WASTE:  appliances, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semisolid wastes, and other
              discarded solid and semisolid wastes. “Solid waste” does not include hazardous,
              low level radioactive, or medical wastes. “Solid waste” as herein defined shall
              not include materials source-separated by the generator for the purpose of
              recycling, reuse, repair or composting.
SPECIAL PICK  The collection of solid waste that exceeds the scope of standard residential or
UP:           commercial service as set forth in this chapter, or any material not defined in
              this section as solid waste.
STANDARD
RESIDENTIAL   Roll out container(s) provided by city.
CONTAINER:
              A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
              A.   Supermarkets with gross annual sales of $2,000,000 or more.
              B.   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater than 10,000
TIER ONE      square feet.
COMMERCIAL    C.   Food service provider.
EDIBLE FOOD   D.   Wholesale food vendor.
GENERATOR:    SB 1383 Tier 1 commercial edible food generators are required to comply with SB
              1383 regulations by January 1, 2022 or face significant financial penalties as
              prescribed in 14 CCR Section 18997.2, City Code Chapter
              13-24 (Penalty for Violation), or City Code Chapter 2 Article XIV (Administrative
              Citations) as determined by the City Manager and/or his or her designee.
              A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
              A.   Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size equal to or
              greater than 5,000 square feet.
              B.   Hotel with an on-site food facility and 200 or more rooms.
              C.   Health facility with an on-site food facility and 100 or more beds.
              D.   Large venue.
TIER TWO      E.   Large event.
COMMERCIAL    F.   A state agency with a cafeteria with 250 or more seats or total cafeteria
EDIBLE FOOD   facility size equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet.
GENERATOR:    G.   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
              SB 1383 Tier 2 Commercial edible food generators are required to comply with SB
              1383 regulations by January 1, 2024 or face significant financial penalties as
              prescribed in 14 CCR Section 18997.2, City Code Chapter
              13-24 (Penalty for Violation), or City Code Chapter 2 Article XIV (Administrative
              Citations), or any other applicable enforcement provision of this Code, as
              determined by the City Manager and/or his or her designee.
              Solid waste such as heavy or bulk materials which can be properly and safely
WASTE MATTER: collected and transported by special pick up vehicles. The city manager or his
              designee shall determine those materials suitable for special pick up service.
              Lawn clippings, tree and shrubbery trimmings, and leaves that can be properly and
YARD WASTE:   safely collected and transported in a collection vehicle. (Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002;
              Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
 
13-3: RULES ESTABLISHED:
The following rules, as contained in this chapter, covering the handling of
accumulations of garbage, refuse, yard waste, and waste matter to be observed
by the occupants of places of residence and places of business in the city are
hereby established. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-
1-2022)
13-4: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Solid Waste Accumulations: It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner or occupant of any building, lot or premises in the city to suffer, allow
or permit the accumulation of solid waste of any description to become or
remain offensive, unsightly or unsafe to public health or hazardous from fire,
or to deposit, transport, keep, accumulate or permit or cause any solid waste
to be deposited, placed or accumulated upon any lot or parcel of land, or any
public or private container, place, street, land, alley or driveway except in
the manner prescribed in this chapter.
      2.   Illegal Use Of Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit refuse into containers, bins, or roll off containers which are not
assigned to the property at which the refuse is generated.
      3.   Illegal Collection Or Removal Of Recyclables: It shall be unlawful
for any person, other than the city or the city’s designee, to collect or
remove materials which have been segregated for the purpose of recycling and
placed in a designated recycling receptacle.
      4.   Placing Prohibited Materials In Recycling Receptacles: It shall be
unlawful for any person to willingly place any materials in the recycling
receptacles that do not meet the criteria defined under section
13-2 of this chapter.
      5.   Taking Or Pilfering Of Recyclables Or Any Other Item: It shall be
unlawful for any person to take or pilfer, for his/her own use or benefit:
         a.   The recyclables of any other person.
         b.   The recyclables from any city operated drop off facilities.
Recyclables donated to the drop off facility are considered the property of the
city.
         c.   Any item placed into any city owned trash receptacle designated
for disposal.
      6.   Refuse Disposal Into Or Near Recycling Drop Off Facilities: It shall
be unlawful for any person to dispose of “refuse”, as defined under section
13-2 of this chapter, into or around city operated drop off facilities.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Each and all of the conditions specified in
subsection A of this section constitute a public nuisance, and are unlawful, in
violation of this chapter and are subject to immediate abatement by any officer
of this city. Any costs associated with enforcement and abatement which the
city incurs may be charged to the offending party or property owner for
reimbursement.
   C.   Recycling Location An Individual Choice: Nothing herein shall prohibit
a person from selling, giving away, or otherwise legally diverting their own
recyclable materials to a location of their choice. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993;
Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-5: MANDATORY SERVICE:
It shall be mandatory for every property owner within the city to receive city
disposal service and billing therefor, except those industrial businesses whose
volume of waste might exceed what services the city could offer. Minimum levels
of city residential, commercial, and industrial refuse service shall be
determined by city council and set by resolution. City refuse service above the
minimum level may be required to protect public safety, health, and welfare, as
required by this chapter. The necessity of such increased levels of service
shall be determined by the city manager or his designee. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-
1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-6: UNLAWFUL DISPOSITION OF SOLID WASTE GENERALLY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on the business of
hauling or removing garbage, refuse or waste matter within the city without
written permission from city manager. Any person engaging in or carrying on the
business of hauling or removing recyclables must have the written permission of
the city manager as set forth in section
13-19 of this chapter. Disputes over whether material should be classified as
recyclable or solid waste will be resolved by the city manager or his designee.
(Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-7: RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   Frequency, Amount, And Location Of Collection: The city shall provide
collection service from all dwelling units in the city at frequencies and
amounts to be determined by city council and set by resolution. Residential
service shall be at curbside unless otherwise authorized by the city manager or
his designee.
   B.   Responsibilities Of Curb Service Customers: All curb service customers
shall place their solid waste containers at the curb or property line and shall
remove the empty containers in accordance with time schedules as determined by
the city manager or his designee.
   C.   Alley Service Customers; Placement Of Containers: Alley service will
only be provided if criteria developed by the city manager or his designee is
met, and such service is compatible with overall collection service objectives.
Customers receiving alley service shall place their solid waste containers at
the property line in through alleys and shall remove the empty containers in
accordance with time schedules as determined by the city manager or his
designee.
   D.   Container Service: Bin container service may be used in residential
areas for apartments and multiple dwellings and for single-unit dwellings if
approved by the city manager or his designee. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1537
§ B45, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-8: SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES:
The occupant, tenant or lessee of any house, dwelling, flat, apartment
building, mobile home, motel, hotel, restaurant or other place of business or
residence within the city where solid waste is produced or accumulated and
where individual container service is authorized shall keep, in a place where
it will not constitute a nuisance, a city approved container for receiving and
holding all of the solid waste which accumulates on the premises between the
time of successive collections. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002;
Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1537 § B46, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002)
13-10: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Where commercial collections are made from private alleys and access
ways, said approaches shall be maintained in such a manner as not to be a
hazard to collection personnel and equipment, and provide a safe and convenient
entrance to and through the premises for the purpose of collecting refuse.
   B.   The approach to containers furnished by the city must be kept clear. An
inaccessible container will not be dumped at the scheduled time. There will be
an extra charge to dump a container other than at the regularly scheduled time,
or if it is necessary to return to the collection site due to inaccessibility
of the collection container.
   C.   Overfilled containers and excess trash on top of containers pose a
hazard to collection vehicles and personnel and may not be dumped at the
scheduled time. If an overfilled container is able to be dumped, it shall
constitute a special haul and will require an extra charge.
   D.   Compacted commercial waste requires special handling due to increased
weight associated with compaction. Compacted waste will be subject to increased
collection charges and may require restrictions on the volume of waste
accumulated between collection days.
   E.   All persons or businesses utilizing city owned containers are
responsible for the sanitary conditions of each container or receptacle and the
proximity thereof and must keep lids and doors closed when not in use. A charge
may be assessed when steam cleaning of containers is requested by customers.
All persons and businesses will be responsible for burned or damaged containers
due to other than normal wear and tear and will be charged for necessary
repairs. Bin containers may be fitted with lid locks at the request of the
customer. A charge will be assessed for installation and repair of such locks.
   F.   Items that are likely to cause damage to regular city containers or the
collection vehicles will not be regularly picked up. Such examples are, but are
not limited to, timbers or tree trunks larger than four inches (4") in diameter
or longer than five feet (5'), engine blocks, heads, transmissions, axles,
spring assemblies, tires or draft shafts, all of which shall constitute a
special haul. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-
2022)
13-11: BIN CONTAINER PADS AND ENCLOSURES:
   A.   All bin container services shall require a concrete bin pad to ensure
that the bin can be conveniently serviced. Each bin type container, regardless
of the cubic yard capacity, shall require a concrete pad six inches (6") thick
and six feet by ten feet (6' x 10') for each bin. The bin container pad shall
be poured to the existing ground level, ensuring that the pad is neither too
high nor too low, creating collection problems. There shall be a fence erected
around the bin pad storage area. Such fencing shall conform with city
specifications as specified by the city manager or his designee.
   B.   Temporary bin service may be provided at a residential or commercial
site at the request of the customer for short term cleanup activities and do
not require a bin enclosure. Temporary bin service shall not be utilized in
lieu of permanent disposal service. Temporary bin location and on site duration
may be limited so as not to constitute a public nuisance. Temporary bins
determined to constitute a public nuisance may be immediately removed at the
discretion of the city manager or his designee. (Ord. 1537 § B47, 8-6-1996;
Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-12: SPECIAL PICK UP, DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION EVENT SERVICES:
   A.   The removal of dirt, sod, tree stumps, stones, broken concrete,
furniture and appliances and other building materials is not considered to be
normal household solid waste service. Periodic collection of accumulations of
excess solid waste within the city, in addition to that provided for above,
shall be made on the request of a resident. These services will be handled on a
special pick up basis for which an extra charge is made. Tree and shrub
trimmings which cannot be accommodated in the city provided yard waste cart
shall be handled on a special pick up basis for which an extra charge will be
made.
   B.   The following services are considered “special requests” and will be
charged an additional fee as determined by city council and set by resolution.
“Special requests” include, but are not limited to: extra pick up of
residential, commercial, and industrial containers; same day delivery,
emptying, or removal of temporary bins; same day delivery, emptying, removal or
relocation of temporary or permanent roll off containers; standby time of
collection personnel at customer request or to accommodate customer needs; same
day return to empty a container or bin that was inaccessible, overfilled, or
contaminated.
   C.   The disposal of substances determined to be household hazardous
materials shall be restricted to special collection events or sites as approved
by city council.
   D.   The city manager or his designee shall determine those waste materials
suitable for special pick up service. (Ord. 1537 § B48, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1615,
10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-13: ENFORCEMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER OR HIS DESIGNEE:
   A.   The city manager or his designee shall supervise the collection and
removal of all solid waste by the city and shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter. He shall have the right to inspect any and all premises for the
purpose of determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed. Any person denying or obstructing such inspection shall be subject to
the penalties herein provided.
   B.   The city manager or his designee shall establish routes and days for
collection and may change same from time to time. When such routes and days are
established or changed, he shall give such notice thereof as he may deem
advisable.
   C.   In all cases where he shall find practical difficulty in complying with
the requirements of this chapter as to the placing of refuse for collection by
the city, he shall designate where such solid waste shall be placed or kept for
collection by the city and the conditions under which it shall be collected.
   D.   The city manager or his designee, with the approval of the city
manager, shall make such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter as may be necessary, reasonable and proper to effect
the expeditious, economical and efficient collection and removal of solid waste
by the city. Such rules and regulations may also relate to the required
frequency of refuse collection at various locations, the type and number of
refuse containers required, and the vehicles used in making such collections.
The determination of the city manager or his designee shall be conclusive.
(Ord. 1537 § B49, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-14: CHARGES FOR COLLECTION; TIME AND MANNER OF PAYMENT:
   A.   Fees and charges for the collection and disposal of solid waste
collection by the city will be fixed by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Solid waste collection charges shall be included in the regular city
utility bill to customers who also have city water service. When the solid
waste customer does not have city water service, a separate bill for solid
waste service shall be mailed to the customer who owns or controls the premises
serviced.
   C.   All charges for solid waste service included on utility bills, or if
not a part of the city utility bill, shall be due and payable at the same time
as other utility charges. If a bill for solid waste is not paid within thirty
(30) days after billing date, a charge of ten percent (10%) as a penalty for
said delinquency shall be made and added to the amount and become a part of
said delinquent utility bill; and the city may discontinue all city utility
service to the premises if the bill should remain delinquent on the forty fifth
day after billing.
   D.   All solid waste service charges are the responsibility of the customer
whose name appears on the utility billing for the service. If unpaid by the
customer billed who controls the premises, they shall be secured at any time by
filing for record in the office of the county recorder of any county, a
certificate specifying the amount of such charges and the name and address of
the customer liable therefor. From the time of recordation of the certificate,
the amount required to be paid, together with interest and penalty, constitutes
a lien upon all real property in the county owned by the customer or
afterwards, and before the lien expires, acquired by him. The lien has the
force, priority, and effect of and shall be regarded as a judgment lien, which
may be extended, if unpaid, by the recording of a renewal certificate before
the expiration of ten (10) years of the previously recorded certificate. (Ord.
1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-15: BUILDING DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
The design of any new, substantially remodeled or expanded building or other
facility shall provide for proper storage or handling which will accommodate
solid waste and recyclable material removal or collection. The design shall
demonstrate to local land use and building permit issuing authorities that it
includes the required provisions. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002;
Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-16: UNLAWFUL TO BURN SOLID WASTE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any solid waste by burning
the same within the limits of the city. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-
1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-17: PENALTY FOR CONTAMINATION OF YARD WASTE:
Any customer whose yard waste container is contaminated with items other than
“yard waste” as defined in section
13-2 of this chapter may be assessed an additional charge, the amount of which
is set by resolution by the city council. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615,
10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-18: COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS:
The city may establish a separate collection service for recyclable materials,
including compostable wastes, and establish specific guidelines for such
service, which are consistent with the rules and regulations contained within
this chapter. The city may also establish a permit for the collection of
recyclable wastes. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-
1-2022)
13-19: RECYCLING HAULER PERMIT REQUIREMENT AND APPLICATION:
In order to more effectively regulate, control, and monitor the amount of
recyclables being deposited in landfills and document the amount diverted from
the solid waste stream, it is in the best interest of the city to require those
persons desiring to gather, collect, transport, or otherwise dispose of
recyclables to obtain from the city a permit to do so. Said permit to gather,
collect, transport, or otherwise dispose of recyclables shall be nonexclusive.
Each permit awarded hereunder shall specifically describe the type of
recyclable material to be collected and disposed of. Any person desiring to
obtain a recycling hauler permit to collect, gather, transport, or otherwise
dispose of recyclables shall pay a fee and make an application as set forth in
guidelines determined by the city manager or his designee. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-
1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-20: REFUSAL TO ISSUE PERMIT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the city manager or his
designee from refusing to grant or renew any application for a recycling hauler
permit when it appears that such permittee’s proposed services are inconsistent
with the intent of this chapter as defined in section
13-1 of this chapter, or do not serve the best interest of the people of
Porterville. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-21: TERM AND RENEWAL:
The term of the permit shall become effective upon notification by the granting
authority, and shall be through the end of the calendar year it was awarded. A
recycling hauler permit may be renewed with the hauler’s business license
according to terms set forth by the city manager or his designee. (Ord. 1494A,
7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-22: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
To assist the city in meeting its diversion goals as specified by the
California integrated waste management act of 1989 (AB 939) and other state or
local laws, the permittee shall maintain records including the following
information:
   A.   The description and nature of the material (e.g., bottles, cardboard,
grease, etc.) collected.
   B.   The name(s) and address(es) of each collection site within the city of
Porterville, including amount, weight, or tonnage of the recyclables collected
at each site.
   C.   Name and address of the site(s) where the above recyclables were
disposed.
The permittee shall maintain such records for a period of five (5) years and
shall, upon reasonable request, make such records available for the city’s
inspection.
The permittee shall also supply additional information when requested by the
city manager or his designee. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002;
Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-23: HOME GENERATED SHARPS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM:
   A.   Purposes: The city of Porterville finds and declares all of the
following purposes for this section:
      1.   To achieve the mandates imposed by the integrated waste management
act of 1989 (AB 939) on a regional basis;
      2.   To enact a comprehensive and innovative system for the proper and
legal management of home generated “sharps” waste, as defined in subsection B
of this section in the city of Porterville in accordance with section 118286 of
the California Health And Safety Code;
      3.   To enact a law that establishes a program that is convenient for
consumers and the public to return and ensure the safe and environmentally
sound disposal of home generated sharps waste, and to provide a “no cost”
system for consumers for the return of home generated sharps waste;
      4.   To assure that the costs associated with the handling and disposal
of home generated sharps waste are the responsibility of the producers and
retailers of home generated sharps waste, and not local governments or their
service providers, state or local government, or taxpayers;
      5.   To reduce the likelihood of the illegal disposal of home generated
sharps waste;
      6.   To ensure that all costs associated with the proper management of
home generated sharps waste are internalized by the producers and retailers of
home generated sharps waste at or before the point of purchase, and not at the
point of discard;
      7.   To assure that manufacturers and retailers of sharps, while working
to achieve the goals and objectives of this section, shall have the flexibility
to partner with each other, with governmental programs, and with private and
nonprofit business enterprises that provide collection and processing services,
to develop and promote a safe and effective home generated sharps waste
management system; and
      8.   To provide for the safe and convenient collection and disposal of
one hundred percent (100%) of the home generated sharps waste discarded in the
city of Porterville at no cost to the consumer and to comply with the
requirements pursuant to state Health And Safety Code prohibiting the disposal
of home generated sharps waste in trash, recycling, yard waste, or landfills as
of August 1, 2014.
   B.   Definitions:
CONSUMER:    An individual who has purchased sharps for personal use for humans or animals.
CONTAINED:   All home generated “sharps” (as defined herein) waste is properly secured in a
             “receptacle” (as defined herein) prior to delivery to a retailer for disposal.
DISTRIBUTOR: A person who sells sharps to a retailer.
HOME         All “sharps” as defined herein derived from a household, including a multi-
GENERATED:   family residence, or a single- family residence.
PORTERVILLE  The geographic area that includes the boundaries of the city of Porterville,
AREA:        California.
PROPER
DISPOSAL OF  Disposal in compliance with the applicable provisions of the California Health
HOME         And Safety Code by means of an approved/certified medical waste disposal
GENERATED    company.
SHARPS
WASTE:
RECEPTACLE:  An FDA approved, rigid and puncture resistant container with a sealable lid
             that is designed specifically for transporting sharps for disposal.
             Any entity, including, but not limited to, a person or business, or whatever
RETAILER:    form of organization, which sells sharps to a consumer, including a
             manufacturer of sharps who sells directly to a consumer.
             Hypodermic needles, pen needles, intravenous needles, lancets, and other
SHARPS:      devices that are used to penetrate the skin for the delivery of medications, to
             humans or animals.
 
   C.   Sharps Management:
      1.   By August 1, 2014, every retailer of sharps sold in the city of
Porterville shall establish, within the retail outlet, a system for the
acceptance and collection of home generated sharps waste for proper disposal.
      2.   Each system established by a retailer for the acceptance and
collection of home generated sharps waste that is enclosed in sealed, puncture
resistant receptacles during the retailer’s normal hours of operation, for
proper disposal shall, at a minimum, include all of the following elements:
         a.   A convenient location within the retail establishment for the
“take back” from the consumer of home generated sharps waste at no cost to that
consumer.
         b.   Appropriate signage, prominently displayed within five feet (5')
of any entrance to the retail establishment and easily visible to the consumer,
indicating that the retail establishment accepts and collects contained home
generated sharps waste from consumers.
         c.   An appropriately secured receptacle or receptacles for the
collection of contained home generated sharps waste within the retail
establishment. The retailer shall assure that all home generated sharps waste
is properly contained in a sharps receptacle and placed in a secured drop off
location.
         d.   Assurance that the collected home generated sharps wastes are
disposed within the time period established by applicable state law, as
determined, from time to time by the Tulare County environmental health service
department, acting as the local enforcement agency.
         e.   Comply with all applicable provisions of the California medical
waste management act, Health And Safety Code section 117600 et seq.
      3.   A retailer who is required to accept contained home generated sharps
waste shall, at a minimum, provide the following take back services:
         a.   The take back from the consumer of contained home generated
sharps waste that the retailer sold or previously sold to the consumer, at no
cost to that consumer. In that event, the retailer may require proof of
purchase of the prior sales. The retailer shall only be required to accept
contained home generated sharps waste in an amount not to exceed the amount
previously sold to the consumer.
         b.   The take back of contained home generated sharps waste from a
consumer purchasing sharps from the retailer, at no cost to the consumer. In
that event, the retailer shall only be required to accept contained home
generated sharps waste in an amount not to exceed the amount being purchased.
         c.   The take back from the consumer of contained home generated
sharps waste that the retailer did not sell or previously sell to the consumer,
at no cost to that consumer. The retailer shall only be required to accept
contained home generated sharps waste in an amount not to exceed the equivalent
of one 2-quart size sharps container per week, per consumer, from any consumer
who resides in the city of Porterville area. (Ord. 1814, 6-17-2014; Ord. 1890,
3-1-2022)
13-24: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or wilfully and
knowingly refusing to comply with the rules, regulations and determination of
the city manager shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months,
(or as otherwise specified in the Section 1-9 of this Municipal Code), or by
both fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1494A, 7-20-1993; Ord. 1615, 10-1-2002; Ord.
1814, 6-17-2014; Ord. 1890, 3-1-2022)
13-25: COMPLIANCE WITH THE ACT AND SB 1383 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Compliance with the Act: All residential premises, multifamily
residential complexes, commercial customers, franchised haulers, generators,
haulers, licensed haulers, and all other entities subject to the requirements
of the Act shall fully comply with the Act and all other applicable law or be
subject to any applicable penalties as prescribed in 14 CCR Section 18997.2,
City Code Chapter
13-24 (Penalty for Violation), or City Code Chapter 2 Article XIV
(Administrative Citations), or any other applicable enforcement provision of
this Code, as determined by the City Manager and/or his or her designee.
   B.   SB 1383 Regulatory Compliance: Organic waste generators, haulers, and
all other entities subject to the requirements of SB 1383 shall fully comply
with all applicable requirements, including those summarized below, or be
subject to the penalties as prescribed in 14 CCR Section 18997.2, City Code
Chapter
13-24 (Penalty for Violation), or City Code Chapter 2 Article XIV
(Administrative Citations), or any other applicable enforcement provision of
this Code, as determined by the City Manager and/or his or her designee.
      1.   Organic waste generators. SB 1383 requirements that apply to organic
waste generators include, but are not necessarily limited to the following:
         a.   All residential premises shall be automatically enrolled in the
City’s three- container collection services for garbage, recyclable materials,
and organic waste including food waste.
         b.   All commercial premises (including all multifamily residential
complexes with five (5) or more units) must make arrangements for the diversion
of recyclable materials and organic waste, either through a collection service
with a solid waste franchised hauler, or by self-hauling to a permitted
facility meeting the requirements specified in 14 CCR Section 18984.3. The City
shall have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s containers
and frequency of collection, to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each
type of collection service for proper separation of materials and containment
of materials; and commercial premises shall adjust their service level for
their collection services as required by the City.
         c.   Generator shall place organic waste, including food waste, in the
designated organic waste container; recyclable materials in the designated
recycling container; and garbage in the designated garbage container.
Generators shall not place materials designated for the garbage container into
the organic waste container or recycling container.
         d.   Each commercial premise and multifamily residential complex
property owner shall be responsible for ensuring and demonstrating its
compliance with the following requirements:
            (1)   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size, and
location of collection containers with sufficient labels or colors (conforming
with requirements described below) for employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers, consistent with the City’s collection service or, if self-hauling in
compliance with self-hauling requirements in Section B.2.c. herein.
            (2)   Excluding multifamily residential complexes, provide
containers for the collection of organic waste and recyclable materials in all
indoor and outdoor areas where disposal containers are provided for customers,
for materials generated by that business. Such containers do not need to be
provided in restrooms. If a commercial premises does not generate any of the
materials that would be collected in one type of container, then the business
does not have to provide that particular container in all areas where disposal
containers are provided for customers. Pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b),
the containers provided by the business shall have either:
               (A)   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors
provided through the collection service provided by the City’s franchised
hauler, with either lids conforming to the color requirements or bodies
conforming to the color requirements, or both lids and bodies conforming to
color requirements. A commercial premises is not required to replace functional
containers, including containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do
not comply with the requirements of the subsection prior to the end of the
useful life of those containers, or prior to January 1, 2036, whichever comes
first.
               (B)   Container labels that include language or graphic images,
or both, indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials
prohibited in that container, or containers with imprinted text or graphic
images that indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials
prohibited in the container. Pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.8, the container
labeling requirements are required on new containers commencing January 1,
2022.
               (C)   Multifamily residential complexes are not required to
comply with container placement requirements or labeling requirements in this
Section pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b).
            (3)   Annually provide information to employees, contractors,
tenants, and customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about
proper sorting of source separated organic waste and source separated
recyclable materials.
            (4)   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14)
days of occupation of the premises by new tenants that describes requirements
to keep source separated organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials separate from garbage and the location of containers and the rules
governing their use at each property.
            (5)   Provide or arrange access for the City or its representative
to their properties during all inspections conducted in accordance with SB 1383
to confirm compliance with the requirements of this Chapter.
            (6)   Commercial premises, but not multifamily residential
complexes, are also required to:
               (A)   To the extent practical through education, training,
inspection, and/or other measures, prohibit employees from placing materials in
a container not designated for those materials per the City’s collection
service.
               (B)   Periodically inspect organic waste, recycling, and garbage
containers for contamination and inform employees if containers are
contaminated and of the requirements to keep contaminants out of those
containers pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b)(3).
            (7)   Nothing in this Chapter prohibits a generator from preventing
or reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site, or using a
community composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c).
         e.   Waivers for Generators.
            (1)   City may waive a commercial customer’s obligation (including
a multifamily residential complex) to comply with some or all of the organic
waste requirements of SB 1383 if the commercial customer provides documentation
as described below, and the City finds that documentation supports the granting
of a waiver.
               (A)   Commercial customers requesting a de minimis waiver shall
submit an application specifying the services that they are requesting a waiver
from and provide documentation that either:
                  i.   The commercial customer’s total solid waste collection
service is two cubic yards or more per week and organic waste subject to
collection in a blue container or green container comprises less than 20
gallons per week per applicable container of the business’ total waste; or,
                  ii.   The commercial customer’s total solid waste collection
service is less than two cubic yards per week and organic waste subject to
collection in a blue container or green container comprises less than 10
gallons per week per applicable container of the business’ total waste.
                  iii.   Notify City if circumstances change such that
commercial customer’s organic waste exceeds threshold required for waiver, in
which case waiver will be rescinded.
               (B)   Commercial customers or property owners may request a
physical space waiver through the following process:
                  i.   Submit an application specifying the services that they
are requesting a waiver from.
                  ii.   Provide documentation that the premises lacks adequate
space for blue containers and/or green containers including documentation from
its hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer.
            (2)   Waivers shall apply for up to, but no longer than five (5)
years, as determined by the Director and/or his or her designee.
      2.   Other entities. SB 1383 requirements that apply to other entities
include, but are not necessarily limited to the following:
         a.   Commercial edible food generators:
            (1)   Tier one commercial edible food generators shall comply with
the requirements of 14 CCR Section 18991 commencing January 1, 2022. Tier two
commercial edible food generators shall comply with the requirements 14 CCR
Section 18991.3 commencing January 1, 2024.
            (2)   A large venue or large event operator that does not provide
food services, but allows for food to be provided, shall require food
facilities operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the
requirements of 14 CCR Section 18991.3.
            (3)   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the
following requirements:
               (A)   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that
would otherwise be disposed.
               (B)   Contract with or enter into a written agreement with food
recovery organizations or food recovery services for: (i) the collection of
edible food for food recovery; or (ii) acceptance of the edible food that the
commercial edible food generator self-hauls to the food recovery organization
for food recovery.
               (C)   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable
of being recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service.
               (D)   Shall keep records as specified in 14 CCR Section 18991.4.
               (E)   Shall provide to the City a copy of any of the information
they are required to track per Section 18991.4 within 30 days of request by the
City.
         b.   Food recovery organizations and services:
            (1)   Shall maintain records as specified in 14 CCR Section
18991.5, and shall provide a copy of those records to the City within 30 days
of request by the City.
         c.   Self-hauler Requirements:
            (1)   Any party wishing to self-haul material must apply for and
receive written approval from the City.
            (2)   Self-haulers shall source separate all recyclable materials
and organic waste generated on-site from solid waste in a manner consistent
with 14 CCR Sections 18984.1 and 18984.2, or shall haul organic waste to a high
diversion organic waste processing facility as specified in 14 CCR Section
18984.3.
            (3)   Self-haulers shall haul their source separated recyclable
materials to a facility that recovers those materials; and haul their source
separated green container organic waste to a solid waste facility, operation,
activity, or property that processes or recovers source separated organic
waste. Alternatively, self-haulers may haul organic waste to a high diversion
organic waste processing facility.
               (A)   Self-haulers that are commercial customers (including
multifamily residential complexes) shall keep a record of the amount of organic
waste delivered to each solid waste facility, operation, activity, or property
that processes or recovers organic waste; this record shall be subject to
inspection by the City. The records shall include the following information:
                  i.   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity
accepting the waste.
                  ii.   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons
transported by the generator to each entity.
                  iii.   If the material is transported to an entity that does
not have scales on-site or employs scales incapable of weighing the Self-
hauler’s vehicle in a manner that allows it to determine the weight of
materials received, the self-hauler is not required to record the weight of
material but shall keep a record of the entities that received the organic
waste.
         d.   Inspections and Investigations by the City:
            (1)   The City’s representatives, its designated entity, and/or
designees are authorized to conduct inspections and investigations, at random
or otherwise, of any collection container, collection vehicle loads, or
transfer, processing, or disposal facility for materials collected from
generators, or source separated materials to confirm compliance with this
ordinance by organic waste generators, commercial premises (including
multifamily residential complexes), property owners, commercial edible food
generators, haulers, self-haulers, food recovery services, and food recovery
organizations, subject to applicable laws. This section does not allow the City
to enter the interior of a private residential property for inspection.
            (2)   A regulated entity shall provide or arrange for access to
their properties during all inspections and shall cooperate with the City’s
employee or its designated entity/designee during such inspections and
investigations. Such inspections and investigations may include confirmation of
proper placement of materials in containers, edible food recovery activities,
records, or any other requirement of this ordinance described herein. Failure
to provide or arrange for access to an entity’s premises or access to records
for any Inspection or investigation is a violation of this Chapter and may
result in penalties described.
            (3)   Any records obtained by the City during its inspections and
other reviews shall be subject to the requirements and applicable disclosure
exemptions of the Public Records Act as set forth in Government Code Section
6250 et seq.
            (4)   The City’s representatives, its designated entity, and/or
designees are authorized to conduct any inspections, remote monitoring, or
other investigations as reasonably necessary to further the goals of this
ordinance, subject to applicable laws.
         (5)   The City shall receive written complaints from persons regarding
an entity that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 regulations,
including receipt of anonymous complaints. (Ord 1890, 3-1-2022)
CHAPTER 14
LIBRARY
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
14-1: Established
14-2: Use To Be Free To All Residents Of City And Nonresident Taxpayers;
Violations; Penalties
14-1: ESTABLISHED:
As authorized by section 56 of the charter of the city, as amended, a free
public library is hereby established under control of the city for the
dissemination of knowledge of the arts, sciences and general literature, and
the performance of general library functions usually carried on and conducted
by a public free library. (Ord. 1538 § 2, 8-20-1996)
14-2: USE TO BE FREE TO ALL RESIDENTS OF CITY AND NONRESIDENT TAXPAYERS;
VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
The public library of the city shall be free to the inhabitants and nonresident
taxpayers of the city; subject, however, to such rules and regulations as may
be established by the library and literacy commission in accordance with city
policy, and such rules, regulations and bylaws, fines and penalties as may be
established by the city council. Any person who violates any rules, regulations
or bylaws passed and adopted by the city council or the library and literacy
commission, or who shall promptly fail to pay and discharge any fine and
penalty levied by reason of a violation of any rule, regulation or bylaw may be
excluded from exercising any of the privileges of the public library of the
city. (Ord. 1538 § 2, 8-20-1996; Ord. 1768, 11-16-2010)
ARTICLE II. LIBRARY AND LITERACY COMMISSION
SECTION:
14-3: Duty To Manage Library; Composition; Appointment
14-4: Vacancies
14-5: Appointment Of Chairperson, Vice Chairperson And Secretary
14-6: Term Of Officers
14-7: Meetings
14-8: Special Meetings; Quorum; Records
14-9: Powers And Duties Generally
14-3: DUTY TO MANAGE LIBRARY; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created a library and literacy commission consisting of seven
(7) members, who shall be residents of the city of Porterville. The commission
shall serve in an advisory capacity to the city council. Said commissioners
shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of a majority of the city
council. (Ord. 1768, 11-16-2010)
14-4: VACANCIES:
Vacancies on the library and literacy commission shall be filled by appointment
for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointments are
made. All appointments shall be made for a three (3) year period on a rotating
4-3 basis and shall conform to chapter 11 of the Government Code (sections
54970 and 54975). (Ord. 1768, 11-16-2010)
14-5: APPOINTMENT OF CHAIRPERSON, VICE CHAIRPERSON AND SECRETARY:
The library and literacy commission shall appoint one of its members
chairperson, one of them vice chairperson, and one secretary. (Ord. 1768, 11-
16-2010)
14-6: TERM OF OFFICERS:
The officers thus appointed shall serve for one year, until their successors in
office have been elected and appointed by the library and literacy commission.
(Ord. 1768, 11-16-2010)
14-7: MEETINGS:
The library and literacy commission shall prescribe the time and place of its
meetings and shall meet not less frequently than once each month; provided,
however, that no meetings need be held during the months of June, July and
August. All meetings shall conform to section 54950 et seq., of the state
Government Code, also commonly known as the "Brown act". (Ord. 1768, 11-16-
2010)
14-8: SPECIAL MEETINGS; QUORUM; RECORDS:
Special meetings of the library and literacy commission may be called at any
time by the chairperson or by four (4) of the commissioners, by written notice
mailed or personally delivered to each member, and to each local newspaper of
general circulation, radio or television station requesting notice in writing,
at least twenty four (24) hours before the time specified for the proposed
meeting as specified in the California Government Code section 54950 et seq.; a
majority of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business and the commission shall cause a proper record of all its proceedings
to be kept and maintained. (Ord. 1768, 11-16-2010)
14-9: POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
   A.   Shall recommend library policy to the city council for adoption.
   B.   Shall define the objectives and goals of the library.
   C.   Shall advise the city council and staff on the management and control
of the library and literacy services.
   D.   May establish all reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the
day to day operation of the library.
   E.   Shall give due attention and study to library and literacy services.
   F.   Shall interpret and advocate library and literacy services to the
community.
   G.   Shall take initiative to reach out to city entities and other advisory
commissions in planning for future community library and literacy services and
facility needs.
   H.   Shall serve as the sounding board on which staff may test their plans
and ideas.
   I.   Shall define "literacy" for the purpose of measure H. (Ord. 1768, 11-
16-2010)
CHAPTER 15
LICENSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
15-1: Definitions
15-2: Purpose Of Chapter
15-3: Substitute For Other Revenue Ordinances
15-4: Effect Of Chapter On Past Actions And Obligations Previously Accrued
15-5: License Required
15-5.1: Refusal To Issue License
15-6: Exemptions
15-7: Application For License
15-8: License Issuance
15-9: License Renewal
15-9.1: Termination Of Business
15-10: Penalties
15-11: Enforcement, Inspections And Audits Of Businesses
15-11.1: License Fee Debt; Minimum Fee
15-12: Revocability Of License
15-13: Appeals
15-14: Failure To File Statement Or Corrected Statement
15-15: Additional Power Of Collector
15-16: Assignment Or Transfer; License Or Location
15-17: Reserved
15-18: Duplicate License
15-18.1: Refunds
15-19: Posting And Keeping Licenses
15-20: Regulations
15-21: Violation
15-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain words and phrases used herein are
defined as follows:
   ADVERTISING SOLICITOR: Any person who goes from place to place within the
city selling or offering to sell advertising service using any advertising
method.
   AMUSEMENTS, AMUSEMENT RIDES: One or more merry-go-rounds, exhibitions,
flying horses, Ferris wheels, or other similar devices.
   ARCADE: A commercial establishment containing any combination of five (5) or
more apparatuses, devices and/or machines operated by payment of fees and where
the apparatus, devices and/or machines make possible a game or contest.
   AUCTION SALES: All sales by auction of personal and/or real property.
   BUSINESS: Professions, trades and occupations, and all and every kind of
calling whether or not carried on for profit.
   CARD ROOM: Any room in which there are card tables used, kept or intended
for use in the playing of any kind of legal card game where the same is
conducted as a business or in connection with a business.
   CARNIVAL: A group of two (2) or more shows, entertainments, games, devices,
mechanical rides, amusements, vaudeville or dramatic or minstrel performance,
or games, tricks, devices or wheels, the result of the operation of which is
dependent upon chance or skill, and as a result of the operation of which
things or representatives of value are given or paid. The charging of a single
admission fee to a carnival shall not limit the provisions of this chapter.
   CITY: City of Porterville, Tulare County, state of California.
   COLLECTOR: The administrative services manager or designee of the city and
duly authorized assistants and/or deputies of the director.
   CONTRACTORS: Means and includes those trades licensed by the state
contractors' licensing board.
   FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS OR ESTABLISHED BUSINESS WITHIN THE CITY: A permanent
store, office or place where business is legally and regularly transacted from
month to month in such manner as business of that nature is generally or
customarily carried on and conducted and when the circumstances show an
intention to become an established, fixed and continuous part of the regular
and legitimate business life of the city. In questionable cases, such facts
must be shown by the exhibition of a bona fide lease or rental agreement to the
premises where such business is to be conducted, such lease or rental agreement
to be for a minimum period of not less than ninety (90) days.
   FLEA MARKET OR SWAP MEET: Any collection of two (2) or more vendors gathered
together in a common area segregated by spaces, booths or other designated
selling locations for the purpose of selling, offering to sell, bartering, or
offering to barter, or any combination thereof, goods, wares, merchandise or
articles of value. This definition shall be liberally construed so as to apply
to any activity commonly known and referred to as a flea market, swap meet, or
farmers' market.
   FLEA MARKET OR SWAP MEET OPERATOR: Any person, corporation or organization
conducting, managing or engaging in the business of operating a swap meet, flea
market, or farmers' market.
   FLEA MARKET OR SWAP MEET VENDOR: Any person, corporation or organization,
and all employees and agents thereof, who purchases or acquires a space or
spaces from a flea market or swap meet operator, or who purchases or acquires
the right to be on the premises for the purpose of operating a business at a
flea market, swap meet, or farmers' market.
   GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE: A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of
goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including, but not
limited to, the following types of sales: adjusters; adjustment; alteration;
assignees; bankrupt; benefit of administrator; benefit of creditors; benefit of
trustees; building coming down; closing; creditors committee; creditors; end;
executors; final days; forced out; forced out of business; insolvent; last
days; lease expires; liquidation; loss of lease; mortgage sale; receivers;
trustees; quitting business; going out of business.
   GOODS: Any goods, wares, merchandise or other personal property capable of
being the objects of a sale regulated hereunder.
   GROSS RECEIPTS: Shall include the total amount of the sale price of all
sales and the total amount charged or received for the performance of any act
or service, of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit
allowed, whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in
connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise. Included in
"gross receipts" shall be all receipts, cash credits and property of any kind
or nature, without any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of the
property sold, the cost of the materials used, labor or service costs, interest
paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever. Included in "gross
receipts" as concerns telephone companies shall be only those receipts derived
from providing telephone service within the city and only receipts resulting
from intrastate telephone service. Excluded from "gross receipts" shall be cash
discounts allowed and taken on sales; credit allowed on property accepted as
part of the purchase price and which property may later be sold; any tax
required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and collected
from the consumer or purchaser; such part of the sale price of property
returned by purchasers upon recession of the contract of sale as is refunded
whether in cash or by credit; amounts collected for others where the business
is acting as an agent or trustee to the extent that such amounts are paid to
those from whom collected.
Note: All receipts of a business should be included under gross receipts with
the following exceptions:
   A.   Cash discounts allowed.
   B.   Trade in allowances.
   C.   Sales tax.
   D.   Excise tax.
   E.   Any other tax included in or added to the price of the product.
   F.   Sales return allowances.
   G.   Amounts collected as an agent which are to be paid to others. (An
example of this might be a down payment collected by a realtor or a stock
purchase price collected by a stockbroker.)
   INSURANCE BROKER: A person who, for compensation and on behalf of another
person, transacts insurance other than life with, but not on behalf of, an
insurer.
   ITINERANT VENDOR OR ITINERANT MERCHANT: All persons, both principal and
agent, who engage in a temporary or transient business in the city, selling or
offering to sell goods, wares or merchandise or any other thing of value, with
the intention of conducting such business for a period of less than ninety (90)
days, and who for the purpose of such business hires, leases or occupies any
room, doorway, vacant lot, building or other place, for the exhibition for sale
of goods, wares, merchandise or other thing of value. If any such place,
occupied or used for such business, is rented or leased for a period of less
than ninety (90) days, such fact shall be presumptive evidence that the
business carried on therein is a transient business; and any person so engaged
shall not be relieved from the provisions of this section or from payment of
the license taxes herein provided for such business, by reason of any temporary
association with local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
The provisions of this definition shall not apply to commercial travelers or
selling agents, selling their goods exclusively to merchants, dealers or
traders, whether selling for present or future delivery, by sample or
otherwise, nor to peddlers, as the same is defined in this chapter. Further,
the provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons selling fruit,
vegetables, eggs, butter or other farm or ranch products of their own farm or
dairy, exclusively, nor shall it apply to food products defined as "cottage
foods" pursuant to the Health And Safety Code, live plants or plant cuttings,
or homemade arts or crafts when such items are offered for sale by the preparer
at a coordinated farmers' market or similar event approved through the city.
   PAID PROMOTER: Every person, and each agent or representative of such person
conducting, carrying on or managing, for any compensation whatsoever, the
business of selling tickets for, or promoting by advertising or otherwise, any
activity within the city.
   PARADE: Any march or procession consisting of persons, animals, or vehicles,
or a combination thereof, except funeral processions, upon any public street,
sidewalk, alley, or public place, which march or procession does not comply
with normal and usual traffic regulation or control.
   PEDDLER: Any person who goes from house to house, place to place, or in or
along the streets, within the city selling or offering to sell, barter or
exchange, and making or offering to make immediate delivery of any goods,
wares, merchandise or anything of value, in the possession of the peddler to
persons other than manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers or retailers of such
commodities; provided, that a producer who furnishes directly and delivers any
poultry, eggs, butter, fruit, vegetables or meat being exclusively the produce
of his own garden, farm, ranch, or dairy to persons within the city, shall not
be deemed a peddler within the meaning of this definition.
   PERSON: All domestic and foreign corporations, associations, syndicates,
joint stock corporations, partnerships of every kind, clubs, societies, and
individuals transacting and carrying on any business in the city other than as
an employee.
   PERSONAL LOANS OR SUPPLIER OF FINANCING: Every person who either for himself
or any other person engages in the business of loaning money, advancing credit,
loaning credit, whether security of any kind (personal or real property) is
taken for such loan or advance or not, or purchasing or discounting of any
obligation of money due or to become due or any evidence of any obligation of
money due, whether such obligation is secured or guaranteed or not. Nothing in
this definition shall be deemed or construed to apply to any person conducting
a banking business or financial corporation exempt under the laws of
California, or to persons required to be licensed by the state of California
under provisions of the "personal property brokers act", or to the holder of a
pawnbroker's license.
   QUARTER: A period of three (3) calendar months. The "quarter" as referred to
in this chapter shall commence on the first days of July, October, January, and
April and end on the last days of September, December, March and June. A
quarter shall include any fraction thereof.
   RECYCLABLE WASTE HAULER: Any person who goes from place to place, or
business to business, within the city collecting and hauling recyclable waste
materials such as bottles, cans, cardboard, oil, paper or paper products, or
any other substance for the purpose of reclamation or other use. Nothing in
this definition shall be deemed or construed to apply to any person conducting
business as a junk dealer.
   REMOVAL OF BUSINESS SALE: A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably
cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and
discontinue business at the place upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand
and then will remove to and resume business at a new location in the city or
will continue business from other existing locations in the city.
   SEMIANNUAL: A period of six (6) calendar months. The semiannual period as
referred to in this chapter shall commence on the first days of July and
January and end on the last days of December and June. A semiannual period
shall include any fraction thereof.
   SOLICITOR OR CANVASSER: Any person who goes from house to house or from
place to place within the city, selling or taking orders for, or offering to
sell or take orders for, any goods, wares or merchandise or any article, for
future delivery, or selling or taking orders for any service or services to be
furnished or performed in the future at any place within the city other than a
fixed place of business, or for making, manufacturing, treating or repairing of
any article or thing whatsoever, for future delivery.
   STREET VENDORS/PUSH CART VENDORS: Every person conducting, carrying on or
managing the selling or offering for sale any food, beverages, goods, wares,
merchandise of any type including, but not limited to, plants, flowers, toys,
paintings, furniture, or rugs, or articles of personal property, in his/her
possession, if the offer for sale occurs from a basket, box or any other type
of receptacle, stand, wagon, motor vehicle, push cart, or any other type of
vehicle. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984; Ord. 1531 § A1, 6-18-1996; Ord. 1586 § A1, 5-
16-2000; Ord. 1820, 12-16-2014)
15-2: PURPOSE OF CHAPTER:
This chapter is enacted to raise revenue for municipal purposes and to assure
the orderly conduct of the business community of the city. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-
1984)
15-3: SUBSTITUTE FOR OTHER REVENUE ORDINANCES:
Persons required to pay a license tax for transacting and carrying on any
business under this chapter shall not be relieved from the payment of any
license tax for the privilege of doing such business required under any other
ordinance or chapter of this code and shall remain subject to the regulatory
provisions of other ordinances. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-4: EFFECT OF CHAPTER ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS PREVIOUSLY ACCRUED:
Neither this chapter nor its superseding of any portion of any other ordinance
or chapter of this code shall in any manner be construed to affect prosecution
for violation of any other ordinance or chapter committed prior to the
effective date hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of any license or any penal
provisions applicable to any such violation, nor be construed to affect the
validity of any bond or cash deposit required by any ordinance to be posted,
filed or deposited; and all rights and obligations thereunto appertaining shall
continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-5: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   General Business License: There are hereby imposed upon the businesses,
trades, professions, callings and occupations transacting business within the
city, license taxes in the amounts hereinafter prescribed. It shall be unlawful
for any person to transact and carry on any business, trade, profession,
calling or occupation in the city without first having procured a license from
said city so to do or without complying with any and all applicable provisions
of this chapter.
This section shall not be construed to require any person to obtain a license
prior to doing business within the city if such requirement conflicts with
applicable statutes of the United States or of the state of California.
Persons not required to obtain a license prior to doing business within the
city because of conflict with applicable statutes of the United States or of
the state of California shall not be liable for payment of the tax imposed by
this chapter.
   B.   Card Room: A license shall be obtained by any person to conduct,
operate, or carry on, or permit to be carried on, the business of a card room.
   C.   Junk Dealer And/Or Collector: A license shall be obtained by any person
before engaging in the business of maintaining or operating, conducting,
carrying on, or managing a junk or secondhand dealership.
   D.   Branch Establishments Or Multiple Businesses: A separate business
license must be obtained for each branch establishment or location of the
business transacted and carried on and for each separate type of business at
the same location, and each business license shall authorize the holder to
transact and carry on only the business described thereby at the location or in
the manner designated in such business license; provided, that warehouses used
in connection with or incidental to a business taxed under the provisions of
this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch
establishments; and provided further that any person conducting two (2) or more
types of businesses at the same location and under the same management, or at
different locations, but which businesses use a single set or integrated set of
books and records, may at his option, pay only one tax calculated on all gross
receipts of the businesses under the schedule that applies to the type of
business of such person which requires the highest percentage payment on such
gross receipts.
Vehicles, coin operated machines or any other type of operation incidental to
the licensed business shall fall within the gross receipts schedule designated
for said business. However, wherein two (2) or more businesses are operated
under the same ownership or management that are licensed under the "flat rate"
section of this chapter, that flat rate of each type of business shall apply.
   E.   Sale Of Salvaged Goods: No license shall be required under the
provisions of this chapter for the sale of goods, wares or merchandise salvaged
from any fire, wreck or other calamity in the city. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-5.1: REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSE:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the city council
from refusing to grant to any person a license to carry on and conduct any
business in the city, when it shall appear to the city council that such
business is, or is reasonably certain to be, carried on in such manner as to be
unlawful, immoral or a menace to the health, safety, peace or general welfare
of the people of the city, or that the applicant is not a fit or proper person
to carry on such business, or of such character and reputation as to render it
reasonably certain that such business will be carried on by the applicant in an
illegal or immoral manner, or in such manner as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, morals, peace or general welfare of the people of the city, or
that the applicant has theretofore been convicted of any crime in connection
with, or while engaged in the operation of a similar business in the city, or
has been convicted of any crime affecting the moral character of such
applicant.
   B.   The city council shall refuse to issue a business license to any
applicant where it is apparent that the issuance of such license would allow
for the practice, operation or carrying out of any activity that conflicts with
any local, state or federal law. (Ord. 1817, 10-7-2014)
15-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Interstate Commerce: Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or
construed to apply to any person transacting and carrying on any business
exempt by virtue of the constitution or applicable statutes of the United
States or of the state of California from the payment of such taxes as are
herein prescribed.
None of the license taxes provided for by this chapter shall be so applied as
to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case where a
license tax is believed by a licensee or applicant for license to place an
undue burden upon such commerce, he may apply to the collector for an
adjustment of the tax so that it shall not be discriminatory or unreasonable as
to such commerce. Such application may be made before, at, or within six (6)
months after payment of the prescribed license tax. The applicant shall, by
affidavit and supporting testimony, show his method of business and the gross
volume or estimated gross volume of business and such other information as the
collector may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden on such commerce. The collector shall then conduct an
investigation and, after having first obtained the written approval of the city
attorney, shall fix as the license tax for the applicant, an amount that is
reasonable and nondiscriminatory, or if the license tax has already been paid,
shall order a refund of the amount over and above the license tax so fixed. In
fixing the license tax to be charged, the collector shall have the power to
base the license upon a percentage of gross receipts or any other measure which
will assure that the license tax assessed shall be uniform with that assessed
on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount assessed does not exceed
the license tax as prescribed by this chapter. Should the collector determine
the gross receipts measure of license tax to be the proper basis, he may
require the applicant to submit, either at the time of termination of
applicant's business in the city, or at the end of each six (6) month period, a
sworn statement of the gross receipts and pay the amount of license tax
therefor; provided, that no additional license tax during any one calendar year
shall be required after the licensee shall have paid an amount equal to the
annual license tax as prescribed in this chapter.
Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to this section shall file a verified
statement with the collector stating the facts upon which exemption is claimed.
The collector shall, upon a proper showing contained in the verified statement,
issue a license to such person claiming exemption under this section without
payment to the city of the license tax required by this chapter. The collector,
after giving notice and a reasonable opportunity for hearing to a licensee, may
revoke any license granted pursuant to the provisions of this section upon
information that the licensee is not entitled to the exemption as provided
herein.
   B.   Charitable And Nonprofit Organizations: The provisions of this chapter
shall not be deemed or construed to require the payment of a license tax to
conduct, manage or carry on any business, occupation or activity from any
institution or organization which is conducted, managed or carried on wholly
for the benefit of charitable purposes or from which profit is not derived
either directly or indirectly, by an individual such to be classified as a
nonprofit corporation or organization; nor shall any license tax be required
for the conducting of any entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture on
scientific, historical, literary, religious or moral subjects within the city
whenever the receipts of any such entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture
are to be appropriated to any church or school or to any religious or
benevolent purpose; nor shall any license tax be required for the conducting of
any entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or lecture by any religious,
charitable, fraternal, educational, military, state, county, or municipal
organization or association whenever the receipts of any such entertainment,
dance, concert, exhibition or lecture are to be appropriated for the purpose
and objects for which such organization or association was formed and from
which profit is not derived, either directly or indirectly, by any individual;
provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be deemed to exempt any
such organization or association from complying with any of the provisions of
this chapter requiring a permit from the city council or any commission or
officer to conduct, manage or carry on any profession, trade, calling or
occupation. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   General Business License: Every person required to have a license under
the provisions of this chapter shall make application for same to the collector
of the city. Every applicant for a business license shall pay to the collector,
in addition to the prescribed license tax, a nonrefundable application fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) prior to processing of said application.
Where the application is approved, the application fee shall be applied to the
business license fee for the first licensing period. Where approval of the
application is denied, or if the applicant withdraws or cancels request for
business license, or if the business license is not issued for any reason, the
twenty five dollar ($25.00) application fee will be retained by the city to
cover processing costs of the application. Upon payment of the prescribed
license tax the collector shall issue to such person a license which shall
contain: 1) the name of the person to whom the license is issued; 2) the
business or profession licensed; 3) the place where such business or profession
is to be transacted and carried on; 4) the date of the expiration of such
license; and 5) such other information as may be necessary for the enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter.
Upon a person making application for the first license to be issued hereunder
or for a newly established business or profession, in all cases where the
amount of license tax to be paid is measured by gross receipts, such person
shall furnish to the collector for his guidance in ascertaining the amount of
license tax to be paid by the applicant, a written statement, upon a form
provided by the collector, sworn to before a person authorized to administer
oaths, setting forth such information as may be therein required and as may be
necessary to determine the amount of the license tax to be paid by the
applicant.
If the amount of the license tax to be paid by the applicant is measured by
gross receipts, he shall estimate the gross receipts for the period to be
covered by the license to be issued. Such estimate, if accepted by the
collector as reasonable, shall be used in determining the amount of license tax
to be paid by the applicant; provided, however, the amount of the license tax
so determined shall be tentative only, and such person shall, within thirty
(30) days after the expiration of the period for which such license was issued,
furnish the collector with a sworn statement, upon a form furnished by the
collector, showing the gross receipts during the period of such license, and
the license tax for such period shall be finally ascertained and paid in the
manner provided by this chapter for the ascertaining and paying of renewal
license taxes for other businesses or professions, after deducting from the
payment found to be due, the amount paid at the time such first license was
issued.
The collector shall not issue to any such person another license for the same
or any other business or profession, until such person shall have furnished to
him the written statement and paid the license tax as herein required.
In all cases, the applicant for the renewal of a license shall submit to the
collector for his guidance in ascertaining the amount of the license tax to be
paid by the applicant, a written statement, upon a form to be provided by the
collector, written under penalty of perjury, or sworn to before a person
authorized to administer oaths, setting forth such information concerning the
applicant's business or profession during the preceding year as may be required
by the collector to enable him to ascertain the amount of the license tax to be
paid by said applicant pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Card Room License: Every person desiring to conduct, operate or carry
on the business of a card room shall make written application to the chief of
police for a license to do so on forms provided by him. The chief of police
shall make such investigation of the applicant and of the premises as he deems
necessary or is deemed necessary by the city council. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-8: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   General Business License: The collector shall issue a business license
to any person applying therefor when he is satisfied that the business will not
conflict with any law, ordinance or regulation of the city.
   B.   Card Room License: The chief of police shall report the findings of his
investigation as described in subsection 15-7B of this article, together with
his recommendation, to the city council. The city council may, in its
discretion, issue the license subject to such conditions as it deems
reasonable, or refuse to issue the license. The city council shall be the sole
judge of the sufficiency of whether the issuance or denial of the license is
detrimental to the public health, morals, general welfare or the public peace.
The decision of the city council shall be final.
   C.   Street Vendors/Peddlers Business License: The following information
will be collected prior to the issuance of a street vendor/peddler license:
      1.   A description of the type of food/merchandise to be sold.
      2.   A description of the type of conveyance or vehicle and proposed
locations.
      3.   Evidence of Tulare County health department certificate.
      4.   Evidence of general liability insurance, automobile liability, and
workers compensation (when applicable).
         a.   General liability insurance, including public liability, property
damage insurance, and products liability, the form of which shall be subject to
the approval of the city risk manager, indemnifying the city from any liability
whatsoever arising out of the carrying on of any business authorized by such
permit. Such insurance shall name the city, its officers, employees, agents and
volunteers as additional insured, shall provide for cross liability between
insured and provide that the applicant's insurance is primary to any insurance
coverage administered or owned by the city. The amounts of insurance coverage
shall be in the form of a one hundred thousand dollar ($100,000.00) umbrella
policy aggregate per incident;
         b.   Workers' compensation insurance as required by state statutes,
when operators are employees and not owners; and
         c.   Automobile liability coverage as required by state statutes.
      5.   Evidence of payment of the city's business license fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) semiannually per vehicle, cart or any other type of
conveyance.
      6.   Photo identification cards to be carried by vendor.
      7.   Evidence of state sales tax identification number or certificate of
state sales tax exemption.
      8.   Evidence of sound registration statement approval by city police
department in accordance with section
3-12 of this code for those street vendors with sound systems.
      9.   This requirement shall not apply to caterers licensed under section
15-23, gross receipts, classification B, of this code. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984;
Ord. 1531 § A2, 6-18-1996)
15-9: LICENSE RENEWAL:
The collector shall renew any general business license upon payment of the
proper fee and when the conditions set forth under subsection
15-8A of this article are met. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-9.1: TERMINATION OF BUSINESS:
Any business which shall remain within closed doors, without being open to the
public for the transaction of business for thirty (30) days shall be deemed and
considered to be finally terminated, and the license to conduct same shall be
declared to be forfeited, and any person desiring to reopen or continue such
business will be required to take out a new license in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
In the event that the period of thirty (30) days is not or appears to be not
sufficient time for the closing of such business, the proprietor or operator of
the business may make application to the city council for an extension of time,
submitting such evidence as he may have in support of his application, and the
decision of the city council shall be final.
The terms conducting business continuously or remaining in business in the city
shall mean any business which is open to the public for the transaction of
business on every legal business day of the year, Sundays and legal holidays
being excepted. An exception will be made in case of a business which is being
prepared for a sale or for the purpose of inventory taking at which time not to
exceed five (5) days' closure will be allowed; provided, that any business,
which from its nature is seasonal or operative for only a portion of each year,
may be excepted from the above definition if the applicant for a license will
file with the city a declaration or statement of this fact when applying for
license; provided, further, that in no case shall a greater than fifty percent
(50%) reduction be made from the regular license rate on account of the
seasonal nature of the business. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   All license taxes due hereunder shall be paid in the office of the
collector unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   For failure to pay a license tax for a general business license when
due, whether for renewal of an existing license or for failure to make
application and payment for license prior to first day of commencing business,
the collector shall add successive, cumulative penalties in the amount of
twenty five percent (25%) of the business tax per month on the last day of each
month after the due date thereof, providing that the amount of such penalty to
be added shall in no event exceed three hundred percent (300%) of the amount of
the business tax due.
   C.   License taxes shall be considered due and payable and delinquent as
follows:
      1.   Application and payment for license must be made prior to the first
day of conducting business and shall be considered delinquent at eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. on the first day of conducting such business.
      2.   Annual license taxes shall be due on July 1 and shall be delinquent
at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on July 31.
      3.   Semiannual license taxes shall be due on the first day of July and
January and shall be delinquent at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the last day of
the first month in which the semiannual tax is due.
      4.   Quarterly license taxes shall be due on the first day of July,
October, January and April, and delinquent at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the
last day of the first month in which the quarterly tax is due.
      5.   Monthly license taxes shall be due on the first day of the month for
which the license is sought and delinquent at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the
last day of said month.
      6.   Weekly license taxes shall be due on Monday of each week and shall
be delinquent at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on Friday of said week.
      7.   Daily license taxes shall be due on its effective date and
delinquent at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of due date.
   D.   In lieu of paying said license taxes at the office of the collector as
specified in subsection A of this section, said license taxes may be deposited
in United States mail, postage prepaid, on the due date, provided the
transmitting envelope contains a postage cancellation stamp showing
cancellation not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the due date.
   E.   If the due day falls on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the due day
shall be the next regular business day on which the city hall is open to the
public.
   F.   The collector may, for good cause, extend for not more than thirty (30)
days the time for filing any report or paying any sum required to be paid
hereunder. The extension may be granted at any time provided a written request
therefor is filed with the collector prior to the delinquency date.
   G.   The provisions in this section are in addition to and shall not limit
the provisions of section
15-21 of this article. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-11: ENFORCEMENT, INSPECTIONS AND AUDITS OF BUSINESSES:
It shall be the duty of the collector, and he is hereby directed, to enforce
each and all of the provisions of this chapter. The chief of police shall
render such assistance in the enforcement hereof as may from time to time be
required by the collector or the city council.
The collector in the exercise of the duties imposed upon him hereunder and,
acting through his deputies or duly authorized assistants, shall examine or
cause to be examined all places of business in the city to ascertain whether
the provisions of this chapter have been complied with.
The collector and each and all of his assistants and any police officer of the
city of Porterville shall have the power and authority to enter, free of
charge, and at any reasonable time, any place of business required to procure a
business license herein, and demand an exhibition of said license. Any person
having such business license theretofore issued, in his possession or under his
control, who wilfully fails to exhibit the same on demand, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the penalties provided for by the provisions of this
chapter. It shall be the duty of the collector and each of his assistants to
seek a complaint from the appropriate authority to be filed against any and all
persons found to be violating any of said provisions.
No statements shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein, nor
shall the filing of the same preclude the city from collecting by appropriate
action such sum as is actually due and payable hereunder. Such statement and
each of the several items therein contained shall be subject to audit and
verification by the collector, his deputies, or authorized employees of the
city, who are hereby authorized to examine, audit and inspect such books and
records of any licensee or applicant for license, as may be necessary in their
judgment to verify or ascertain the amount of license fee due.
All licenses, applicants for licenses, and persons engaged in business in the
city are hereby required to permit an examination of such books and records for
the purposes aforesaid.
The information furnished or secured pursuant to this section or any other
section of this chapter shall be confidential except that the business name,
address, telephone number, the owner's name and dates business commenced or
closed, which information shall be subject to public inspection. (Ord. 1324,
12-18-1984)
15-11.1: LICENSE FEE DEBT; MINIMUM FEE:
The amount of any license imposed by this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the
city; and any person carrying on any trade, calling, profession or occupation
mentioned in this chapter without having a license from the city to do so shall
be liable to an action in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction, for the amount of license imposed on such trade, calling,
profession or occupation by the provisions of this chapter.
A suit may be brought against any person for any license fee in this chapter
specified, due and unpaid, in the name of the city, in any court of competent
jurisdiction. The city attorney is authorized to bring such action when in his
judgment there is reason to believe the amount can be collected, and an
attachment may also be issued.
The conviction and punishment of any person for transacting any trade, calling,
profession or occupation without a license shall not excuse or exempt such
person from the payment of any license due or unpaid at the time of conviction,
and nothing in this chapter shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
If any person fails or refuses to file any required return within the time
prescribed, or if after demand therefor made by the collector, fails to file a
corrected return; or if any person subject to the tax imposed by this chapter
fails or refuses to apply for a business license, such person shall be required
to pay a license at such return as the collector may, after investigation, fix
as the proper return to be paid by such person, in any event not less than a
minimum license tax of seventy dollars ($70.00) semiannually and shall be
guilty of a violation of this chapter.
If any license or penalty be not paid when due, the same shall be delinquent,
and such nonpayment shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter,
and the applicant shall be subject to the penalties provided by this chapter,
and the city shall be entitled to enforce the collection of such license fee in
the manner specified in this chapter, and the collector may rescind and revoke
any license issued, or the right to do or carry on business in the city. (Ord.
1324, 12-18-1984)
15-12: REVOCABILITY OF LICENSE:
The city council reserves the right to revoke the license granted any person,
when, after notice to the licensee and upon hearing had, it shall appear the
business licensed is unlawful, immoral or a menace to the public health,
safety, morals, peace or general welfare, or is, or has been carried on in an
illegal or immoral manner, or in such manner as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, morals, peace or general welfare of the people of the city.
   A.   General Business License: The collector may revoke any license for
extended nonpayment of the license fees or for violation of any of the
regulations set forth in this chapter. Said revocation may be appealed to the
city council by the licensee as set forth in subsection 15-13A of this article.
   B.   Card Room: A card room license may be revoked at any time by the chief
of police if, in his judgment, such action is necessary. Said revocation may be
appealed to the city council as set forth in section
15-13B of this article. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-13: APPEALS:
   A.   General Business License: Any person aggrieved by any decision of the
collector with respect to the issuance or refusal to issue such license may
appeal to the council by filing a notice of appeal with the clerk of the
council. The council shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing such
appeal. The clerk of the council shall give notice to such person of the time
and place of hearing by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United
States post office at Porterville, California, postage prepaid, addressed to
such person at his last known address. The council shall have authority to
determine all questions raised on such appeal. No such determination shall
conflict with any substantive provision of this chapter.
   B.   Card Room License: The licensee may appeal revocation of a license by
filing a written appeal with the city council within ten (10) calendar days of
the action by the chief of police. The city council shall hear the appeal and
shall affirm or revoke said action as in its judgment appears to be in the
public interest. The decision of the city council shall be final. If the
licensee does not appeal within the ten (10) calendar day period, the
revocation of the license shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-
1984)
15-14: FAILURE TO FILE STATEMENT OR CORRECTED STATEMENT:
If any person fails to file any required statement within the time prescribed,
or if after demand therefor made by the collector he fails to file a corrected
statement, the collector may determine the amount of license tax due from such
person by means of such information as he may be able to obtain. If such a
determination is made, the collector shall give a notice of the amount so
assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States post
office at Porterville, California, postage prepaid, addressed to the person so
assessed at his last known address. Such person may, within fifteen (15) days
after the mailing or serving of such notice, make application in writing to the
collector for a hearing on the amount of the license tax. If such application
is made, the collector shall cause the matter to be set for hearing within
thirty (30) days before the city council. The collector shall give at least ten
(10) days' notice to such person of the time and place of hearing in the manner
prescribed above for serving notices of assessment. The council shall consider
all evidence produced; and shall make findings thereon, which shall be final.
Notice of such findings shall be served upon the applicant in the manner
prescribed above for serving notices of assessment. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-15: ADDITIONAL POWER OF COLLECTOR:
In addition to all other power conferred upon him, the collector shall have the
power, for good cause shown, to extend the time for filing any required sworn
statement for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, and in such case to
waive any penalty that would otherwise have accrued; and shall have the further
power, with the consent of the city council, to compromise any claim as to
amount of license tax due. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-16: ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER; LICENSE OR LOCATION:
No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable; provided that
where a license is issued authorizing a person to transact and carry on a
business at a particular place, such licensee may upon application therefor
have the license amended to authorize the transacting and carrying on of such
business under said license at some other location to which the business is or
is to be moved. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984; Ord. 1540, 9-3-1996)
15-17: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
15-18: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
A duplicate license may be issued by the collector to replace any license
previously issued hereunder which has been lost or destroyed upon the licensee
filing statement of such fact, and at the time of filing such statement paying
to the collector a duplicate license fee of five dollars ($5.00). (Ord. 1324,
12-18-1984)
15-18.1: REFUNDS:
License taxes, penalties and costs collected or received by the city may be
refunded as herein provided and not otherwise if a signed and verified claim
therefor is filed with the collector within six (6) months after the date of
payment. Such refund may be made only under the following conditions:
   A.   Where a refund is specifically authorized by the provision of law
requiring payment of the license, permit or application fee.
   B.   Where the money is paid to secure a license or permit not required by
law.
   C.   Where the amount paid was in excess of the amount required by law.
   D.   Where the money paid was not required by law.
   E.   Where the applicant for any license has not, at any time after the
commencement of the period or term during which the requested license would
have been effective, commenced or engaged in the business or occupation, or
performed any act for which the license was required.
   F.   Where the money paid was not required by law, or was erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the city through mistake, inadvertence or
error of law or of fact, and whether paid or charged under color of any
provision of this chapter, or otherwise.
This section is remedial in purpose. Its terms and requirements shall not be
deemed to limit or qualify the lawful right of any person to bring or maintain
an action or proceeding based upon the general law of this state for any remedy
provided by law. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-19: POSTING AND KEEPING LICENSES:
All licenses must be kept and posted in the following manner:
   A.   Any licensee transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of
business in the city shall keep the license posted in a conspicuous place upon
the premises where such business is carried on.
   B.   Any licensee transacting and carrying on business but not operating at
a fixed place of business in the city shall keep the license upon his person at
all times while transacting and carrying on such business. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-
1984)
15-20: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Card Tables:
      1.   Conformance With State Law: It is the stated purpose of this
subsection to regulate card rooms, licenses and permits in the city of
Porterville concurrently with the state of California, and to impose local
controls and conditions upon establishments operating card rooms and card
tables as permitted in the "gambling control act" as codified in division 8,
chapter 5 of the California Business and Professions Code.
      2.   Licenses: Each card table shall be assigned a separate license with
such license designating the number of the table and the location of the table,
and the exact place of business where such card table is to be maintained. The
operator shall attach to each licensed table a metal identification number,
which shall be plainly visible at all times; and no license or identification
number shall be transferable; provided, however, that it may be moved to a new
location with the approval of the city council.
      3.   Hours Of Operation: Playing at all card tables shall absolutely
cease and terminate at two o'clock (2:00) A.M. of each day; and it is hereby
declared to be unlawful for any person to deal, participate in, play, carry on
or bet at, against, rent, open up, carry on, conduct or have charge of or to
control any card table in the city between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of each day.
      4.   Patron Security And Safety: All licensees shall have in effect a
security plan to address the safety and security of patrons in and around the
card room. The plan, and any amendments thereto, must be filed with and
approved by the chief of police. The licensee shall be liable for the security
and safety of its patrons to the extent required by law. Any information about
security measures that is provided to the city by an establishment operating a
card table shall be confidential and not open to public inspection.
The physical arrangements of the gambling area and parking lots of the
establishment operating card tables shall meet the requirements and
specifications determined necessary by the chief of police for the security and
safety of citizens, patrons, and police officers. During all hours of
operation, the outside doors to the establishments wherein card tables are
operated and the main doors to rooms wherein the tables are located must be
unlocked and accessible to the general public. Any part and all of the
establishment where a card table is operated shall be open to police inspection
during all hours of operation.
      5.   Wagering Limits: Unless otherwise authorized by the chief of police
based upon a finding of necessity because of the rules relating to a particular
game, a maximum of ten (10) hands may be dealt at any one table. The maximum
number of persons who may participate in play at a table may be limited by the
licensee consistent with the provisions of this chapter, provided that in any
event, the number of persons present in any establishment or room shall not
exceed the occupant load as otherwise prescribed by law. There shall be posted
in a conspicuous place on the establishment premises the minimum buy-in and
wagering limits. Not later than July 1 of each calendar year, the licensee
shall execute under penalty of perjury and file with the chief of police a
declaration stating the following: a) the minimum buy- in, table and wagering
limits and any and all charges or other fees assessed of all players at a
table; and b) a set of the then current posted detailed house rules applicable
to the games played. There is no wagering limit imposed by this subsection.
However, all wagering limits fixed by the licensee shall be posted as required
in this subsection, and shall comply with all state laws and all ordinances of
the city.
      6.   Number Of Gambling Tables: Not more than three (3) card tables shall
be located at each establishment. Not more than nine (9) tables total shall be
located in the city of Porterville, and not more than three (3) establishments
operating such tables shall be located in the city of Porterville.
      7.   Location: No license shall be issued except for a location deemed
suitable by the city council.
      8.   Permit Required For Dealers And Employees: All card room dealers and
employees shall be required to obtain a permit from the chief of police. In
addition, all card room dealers and employees are required to submit to a
fingerprint based criminal history background check by the department of
justice. Permit applicants are responsible for all fees charged for applying
for and obtaining the permit and submitting to the background check. The chief
of police shall deny said permit for any of the following reasons, as set forth
in California Business and Professions Code section 19850A(a):
         a.   Failure of the applicant to clearly establish eligibility and
qualification in accordance with California Business and Professions Code,
division 8, chapter 5;
         b.   Failure of the applicant to provide any information,
documentation, and assurances required by said chapter of the Business and
Professions Code or requested by the director of the division of gambling
control, department of justice, or failure of the applicant to reveal any fact
material to qualification, or the supplying of information that is untrue or
misleading as to a material fact pertaining to the qualification criteria;
         c.   Conviction of the applicant for any crime punishable as a felony;
         d.   Conviction of the applicant for any misdemeanor involving
dishonesty or moral turpitude within the ten (10) year period immediately
preceding the submission of the application, unless the applicant has been
granted relief pursuant to sections 1203.4, 1203.4a and 1203.45 of the
California Penal Code;
         e.   Association of the applicant with criminal profiteering activity
or organized crime, as defined by section 186.2 of the Penal Code;
         f.   Wilful and obstinate defiance by the applicant of any legislative
investigatory body, or other official investigatory body of any state or of the
United States, when that body is engaged in the investigation of crimes
relating to gambling; official corruption related to gambling activities; or
criminal profiteering activity or organized crime, as defined by section 186.2
of the Penal Code; or
         g.   The applicant is less than twenty one (21) years of age.
The department of justice's division of gambling control may object to the
issuance of a work permit by the city for any cause deemed reasonable by the
division.
      9.   Revocation And Appeal:
         a.   By The Chief Of Police: The chief of police may refuse to issue
or may revoke the permit of a card room dealer or employee at any time if, in
his judgment, such action is necessary. A person whose application for a permit
is denied or a person whose permit is revoked, if the decision to deny or
revoke was made solely by the chief of police, may appeal the action of the
chief of police to the city council in accordance with the procedure set forth
in subsection
15-13B of this article.
         b.   By The Division Of Gambling Control: If the division objects to
the issuance of a work permit, the permit shall be denied. Any person whose
application for a work permit has been denied because of an objection by the
division may apply to the California gambling commission for an evidentiary
hearing in accordance with regulations. In addition, the California gambling
control commission may notify the chief of police to revoke a work permit, if
the commission makes the necessary findings after a hearing, pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code section 19912A.
   B.   Coin Operated Machines:
      1.   Contents Of Applications: At the time a license is applied for, the
applicant shall give the serial number, and kind or character of such machine.
      2.   Display Of License Or Stamp: No person shall maintain any vending,
weighing, entertainment or amusement machine within the city without having
posted thereon in a conspicuous place a stamp or label, which shall be issued
and supplied by the collector, which stamp or label shall indicate the number
of the license, together with the date of expiration thereof; and in the event
any duly qualified officer of the city finds any such machine being maintained
in the city without such stamp or label being maintained thereon in a
conspicuous place, or without such stamp or label indicating that there is a
valid and unexpired license issued covering such machine, it shall be his duty
to seize and hold such machine for the payment of the license tax, which
machine shall be disposed of upon the nonpayment of such tax as provided by the
laws relative thereto.
      3.   Transfer Of License: In the event any person discontinues
maintaining any vending, weighing, entertainment or amusement machine duly
licensed pursuant to this chapter during a period when such license remains
unexpired, the licensee may substitute another similar machine in place of the
machine, the use of which is so discontinued, and may maintain such substituted
machine without the payment of an additional license tax for the unexpired
period of the license carried on such discontinued machine; provided, however,
that such person surrender the unexpired license of such discontinued machine
to the collector and obtain from the collector a new license for such unexpired
period for the replacing machine.
      4.   Location Of Machines: No license as provided in this chapter shall
be issued for the maintaining of any vending, weighing, entertainment or
amusement machine upon any public street, sidewalk, alleyway or court within
the city.
   C.   Junk Dealers And/Or Collectors:
      1.   Permit Required: Before any person shall engage in the city in the
business of buying or selling old rope, brass, copper, tin, lead, rags, slush,
empty bottles, paper, bagging, or other junk whether at a fixed place of
business or as an itinerant peddler, he shall make application to the city
council for a permit to engage in such business. Such application shall be
referred to the chief of police, who shall make an investigation concerning the
character of the applicant, and within seven (7) days shall report thereon to
the city council. Upon receiving such report, the city council shall grant or
deny the applicant a permit to engage in such business, and such permit shall
be granted unless it shall appear from such report of the chief of police that
the applicant is not a person of good moral character, or has not a good
character in respect to honesty and integrity; provided, however, that no such
permit shall be granted unless the city council find that such applicant, or if
the applicant be a corporation, the manager thereof, has been a resident of the
city for not less than ninety (90) days prior to such application.
      2.   Registration Of Purchases: Every person maintaining or operating a
junk shop or junkyard shall keep at his place of business a substantial well
bound book, and shall promptly enter therein an exact description of all
personal property purchased by him or it, the date of purchase, name and
residence or place of business of the person from whom purchased, and all
particular or prominent marks of identification that may be found on such
property. Such book shall be kept neat and clean, and all entries made therein
shall be neatly and legibly written in ink. Such book shall at all times during
the ordinary hours of business be open to the inspection of the chief of
police, or any other city officer.
      3.   Required Holding Period: All junk purchased by owners or keepers of
junk shops or junkyards shall be held for a period of at least nine (9) days
before the same shall be sold.
      4.   Pawning And Pledging Prohibited: No owner or keeper of a junk shop
or junkyard shall receive any personal property by way of pledge or pawn, nor
shall any owner or keeper of a junk shop or junkyard engage in the business of
pawnbroking on the same premises wherein a junk shop or junkyard is located.
      5.   Hours Of Business: No junk peddler shall purchase or collect any
junk in the city between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M.
      6.   Revocation Of Permit: The city council may revoke the junk dealer
permit granted to any person upon failure of such person to conduct and carry
on such business in accordance with the provisions of this subsection; and such
permit may likewise be revoked, if in the conduct of such business, any law of
the state, county or city be violated.
      7.   Places Of Business: It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant or
lessee of any premises in the city, or the owner, tenant or lessee of any
trailer house, trailer, truck, automobile, motor vehicle or other vehicle to
keep, place or maintain thereon, or to permit the keeping, placing or
maintaining thereon, of any trailer house, trailer, truck, automobile, motor
vehicle or other vehicle which is used or which is to be used for a dental or
chemical laboratory or for the display or selling of merchandise therein, or to
use or permit the use of any trailer house, trailer, truck, automobile, motor
vehicle or other vehicle on any premises in the city for business, religious,
educational, retail, commissary, shop, storage, office purposes or for other
type of commercial retail purpose.
   D.   Bingo Games:
      1.   Bingo Games Allowed Only By Eligible Organizations With Proper City
Permit: Bingo games within the city are illegal except those organizations
exempted from the payment of the bank incorporation tax by sections 23701a,
23701b, 23701d, 23701e, 23701f, 23701g, and 23701l of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code and by mobile home park associations and senior citizens'
organizations; provided, that the proceeds of such games are used only for
charitable purposes; and provided, that these eligible organizations have
applied for and received the proper city bingo license and conformed to section
326.5 of the California Penal Code and the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Application And Fee For License: Eligible organizations desiring to
obtain such license to conduct bingo games in the city shall file an
application, in writing, to the office of the finance director on a form
provided by the city. The issuing authority shall be the finance director,
after approval of the chief of police. The license shall be for a term of one
year from the date of issuance. The license fee, whether for the initial
license or renewal, will be fifty dollars ($50.00) annually. If an application
for a license is denied, one-half (1/2) of the license fee paid shall be
refunded to the organization.
      3.   Contents Of Application: Said application for a bingo license shall
obtain the following information:
         a.   The name, address, date, place of birth, physical description and
driver's license number of every officer of the charitable organization.
         b.   The name, address, date, place of birth, physical description and
driver's license number of not more than twenty (20) members who will be
authorized to operate the licensed bingo games on behalf of the organization.
         c.   The particular property within the city including the street
number owned or leased by the applicant, and used by such applicant for an
office or for the performance of the purposes for which the applicant is
organized, on which property bingo games will be conducted together with the
occupancy capacity of such place.
         d.   The proposed days of week and hours of day for conduct of bingo
games.
         e.   That the applicant agrees to conduct the bingo games in strict
accordance with section 326.5 of the California Penal Code and this chapter as
they may be amended from time to time and agrees that the license to conduct
bingo games may be revoked by the chief of police when there is a violation of
this chapter or other applicable laws.
         f.   The application shall be signed by said applicant under penalty
of perjury.
         g.   The annual license fee shall accompany the application.
         h.   The applicant shall also submit, with its application, a
certificate or determination of exemption under section 23701d of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, or a letter of good standing from the
exemption division of the franchise tax board in Sacramento, showing exemption
under said section 23701d.
      4.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon receipt of the completed
application and the fee, the finance director shall refer the application to
the appropriate departments of the city for investigation, as to whether or not
all the statements in the application are true, and whether or not the property
of the applicant qualifies and the extent to which it qualifies, as property in
which bingo games may lawfully be conducted, as to fire, occupancy and other
applicable restrictions.
      5.   Contents Of License: Upon being satisfied that the applicant is
fully qualified under the law to conduct bingo games within the city, and the
police department has investigated the application, the finance director shall
issue a license to said applicant, which shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The name and nature of the organization to whom the license is
issued.
         b.   The address where bingo games are authorized to be conducted.
         c.   The occupancy capacity of the room in which bingo games are to be
conducted.
         d.   The days of the week and times during which games may be
conducted.
         e.   The date of the expiration of such license.
         f.   Such other information as may be necessary or desirable for the
enforcement of this subsection.
      6.   Consent: The application for or acceptance of a license constitutes:
         a.   Consent to the entry of any peace officer to investigate the
location identified in the application before the issuance of a license, as
well as during any game thereafter.
         b.   Consent to the chief of police or his agents to review or audit
the charitable organization's records relating to the conduct of bingo games
into the special account required by California Penal Code section 326.5(j) for
the purposes of verifying compliance with the financial interest and special
fund requirements of Penal Code section 326.5 and with this chapter and with
all other applicable laws and regulations.
      7.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any person who conducts a bingo game
without the proper license as required by this chapter, or who operates a bingo
game in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter, or who operates
any bingo game after the suspension or revocation of a bingo license is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
      8.   Summary Suspension Or Revocation: The chief of police may suspend or
revoke a license for any violation of the provisions of this subsection or of
any applicable law or regulation, or for any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of a material fact in the application for the license, or in the
promotion, supervision, operation, conduct or staffing of any bingo game.
      9.   Notice Of Suspension Or Revocation: When it appears that there is
probable cause for a suspension or revocation, the chief of police shall
prepare a written statement showing the cause and the specific action to be
taken. This written notice shall be served on an officer or member of the
organization listed on the license application.
      10.   Appeal Process:
         a.   After receiving the written notice of suspension or revocation,
the affected licensee may file a written request for an appeal hearing with the
city manager. The decision of the city manager will be final. The written
request for an appeal hearing must be filed with the city manager's office no
later than seven (7) calendar days after receiving the written notice of
suspension from the chief of police.
         b.   This appeal hearing must be held within thirty (30) days of the
request being filed with the city manager. Upon the conclusion of the appeal
hearing, the city manager shall issue his written decision within ten (10)
days.
         c.   Any organization whose license is finally revoked may not again
apply for a license to conduct bingo games in the city for a period of one year
from the date of such revocation; provided, however, if the ground for
revocation is the cancellation of the exemption granted under section 23701d of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, such organization may again apply for a license
upon proof of reinstatement of said exemption.
      11.   Definition Of Bingo: As used in this chapter, "bingo" means a game
of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of designated numbers or
symbols designated on a card which conform to numbers or symbols selected at
random.
      12.   Maximum Amount Of Prize: The total value of prizes awarded during
the conduct of any bingo games shall not exceed two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) in cash or kind, or both, for each separate game which is held.
      13.   Profits To Be Kept In Separate Fund Or Account: All profits derived
from a bingo game shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall not be
commingled with any other fund or account. The licensee shall keep full and
accurate record of the income and expenses received and disbursed in connection
with its operation, conduct, promotion, supervision and any other phase of
bingo games which are authorized by this chapter. The city, by and through its
authorized officers, shall have the right to examine and audit such record at
any reasonable time and licensee shall fully cooperate with the city by making
such records available.
      14.   Financial Interest In Licensee Only: No individual, corporation,
partnership or other legal entity except the licensee shall hold a financial
interest in the conduct of such bingo game.
      15.   Exclusive Operation By Licensee: A bingo game shall be operated and
staffed only by members of the licensee organization. Such members shall not
receive a profit, wage or salary from bingo game. Only the licensee shall
operate such game, or participate in the promotion, supervision or any phase of
such game.
      16.   Bingo Games Open To Public: All bingo games shall be open to the
public, not just to the members of the licensee organization.
      17.   Attendance Limited To Occupancy Capacity: Notwithstanding that
bingo games are open to the public, attendance at any bingo game shall be
limited to the occupancy capacity of the room in which such game is conducted
as determined by the fire department and building department of the city in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Licensee shall not reserve
seats or space for any person.
      18.   Bingo Games Conducted Only On Licensee's Property: A licensee shall
conduct a bingo game only on property owned or leased by it, and which property
is used by such organization for an office or for performance of the purposes
for which the organization is organized. The license issued under this chapter
shall authorize the holder thereof to conduct bingo games only on such
property, the address of which is stated in the application. In the event the
described property ceases to be used as an office and as a place for
performance of the purposes for which the licensee is organized, the license
shall have no further force or effect. A new license may be obtained by an
eligible organization, upon application under this chapter, when it again owns
or leases property used by it for an office or for performance of the purposes
for which the organization is organized. Nothing in this subsection should be
construed to require that the property owned or leased by the organization be
used or leased exclusively by such organization.
      19.   Bingo Cards: Only preprinted cards that bear the legend, "for sale
or use only in a bingo game authorized under California law and pursuant to
local ordinances" are to be used in any bingo game.
      20.   Minors Not To Participate: No person under the age of eighteen (18)
years of age shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game.
      21.   Intoxicated Persons Not To Participate: No person who is obviously
intoxicated shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game.
      22.   Hours Of Operation: No licensee shall conduct any bingo game more
than ten (10) hours out of any twenty four (24) hour period. No bingo game
shall be conducted before ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. nor after twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight of any day.
      23.   Participant Must Be Present: No person shall be allowed to
participate in a bingo game unless the person is physically present at the time
and place in which the bingo game is being conducted.
      24.   Receipt Of Profit By A Person A Misdemeanor Under State Law: It is
a misdemeanor under section 326.5(b) of the Penal Code of the state of
California for any person to receive a profit, wage or salary from any bingo
game authorized under this chapter, a violation of which is punishable by a
fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), which fine shall be
deposited in the general fund of the city.
      25.   City May Enjoin Violation: The city may bring an action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to enjoin a violation of section 326.5 of the
California Penal Code or of this subsection.
      26.   Severability: If any portion of this subsection is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this subsection. The city council hereby declares that it
would have adopted this subsection and each portion thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections or portion be declared
invalid or unconstitutional.
   E.   Community Civic Events:
      1.   City Council Findings: The city council finds and declares that it
has historically closed city streets in portions of the downtown area, for the
purpose of assisting certain community and regional events benefitting the
city, the community at large, and nonprofit organizations operating in the
city. Control over the operation of these community civic events has
traditionally been turned over to the entity sponsoring the event. The city
council finds and declares that there is a need to provide written guidelines
and regulations on how these community civic events shall operate.
      2.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to establish a legal
framework for the operation of community civic events, to set forth minimal
requirements for sponsors of these events, to meet the need for order and
control during these events, and to ensure that the theme or character of the
event is maintained, and that use of public property is compatible with the
event.
      3.   Definition: "Community civic event" (hereafter referred to as "CCE")
shall mean the sponsoring and conducting by a nonprofit organization of a
civic, artistic, cultural, charitable, educational, veteran or benevolent
activity of community interest. The council shall require reasonable proof of
the nonprofit status of the sponsoring organization.
      4.   Participation: Participation in a CCE and use of public right of way
shall be limited to those members of the sponsoring organization, in good
standing with the organization, and those persons and vendors as may be
approved by the sponsoring organization.
      5.   Permit Required: The CCE sponsor shall obtain a CCE permit from the
city not less than thirty (30) nor more than one hundred eighty (180) days
before the commencement date of the proposed permit activities; provided, that
the council may waive these time requirements if it determines such a waiver to
be in the public interest. Upon receipt of an application, the business license
clerk shall circulate the application to the following departments for comments
and approval: police department, fire department, finance department,
department of community development, public works department, parks and
recreation department, and risk management department. These departments may
impose terms and conditions upon the CCE permit and issuance and approval of
the permit is conditioned upon compliance with the required conditions. At a
minimum, the permit shall include conditions for holding the city harmless,
maintaining minimum limits of liability insurance in accordance with city
standards, providing security and traffic control, providing adequate restroom
and sanitation facilities, and paying for the cost of city services. The
nonprofit sponsor of the CCE shall be exempt from a license fee. Said permit
shall be valid for a maximum of four (4) consecutive days. If an event runs for
four (4) consecutive days, one of those days must include a Saturday, Sunday or
national holiday. No person or sponsoring organization shall fail to keep the
permit, at all times, at the place where the activities are being conducted,
nor fail upon demand therefor to exhibit such permit to any public officer. The
permit may be revoked for noncompliance with the conditions of the permit and
the provisions of this subsection. Revocation may be made by the council, city
manager, chief of police, or their designees. If the grounds for revocation
occur during the CCE, the council, city manager, chief of police or their
designee shall first advise the CCE sponsor of the grounds for revocation and
provide an opportunity to correct the same. The permit may also be revoked
during the CCE if fire or another emergency requires the CCE to be terminated
to protect the public safety. When the permit is revoked for this reason, all
CCE participants must immediately comply with instructions from any city police
officer or fire department personnel.
      6.   Application: The application for the CCE permit shall contain:
         a.   The name of the applicant, the sponsoring organization, the CCE
chairperson, and the addresses and telephone numbers of each.
         b.   The location and outside perimeter of the CCE area, indicated
upon a map of the area.
         c.   The date and times at which the CCE activities are to take place.
         d.   A description of the CCE activities which will be conducted.
A preliminary list of persons who will be engaging in the CCE, and a
preliminary list of persons engaging in temporary selling activities at any
time during the dates and times for which a temporary selling permit has been
granted shall be furnished to the city no later than one week before the CCE is
to take place. An amended list of all participants is required to be submitted
in conjunction with the payment of business license fees per subsection E16 of
this section.
The council shall cause such application to be investigated and shall grant the
permit if it determines that the proposed CCE activities will not disrupt to an
unreasonable extent the movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or create a
hazard to the public; that the proposed CCE activities are not of a size or
nature that requires the diversion of so great a number of police personnel to
regulate such CCE activities that it prevents reasonable police protection for
the city; that the concentration of persons, equipment and materials is not so
great in the CCE areas that it would prevent proper fire, police and ambulance
protection; and that the CCE permit applicant agrees to be responsible for
cleanup necessitated by the proposed activities. The council may, in its
discretion, require a cleanup deposit to guarantee that cleanup takes place.
The council shall condition the granting of permits upon compliance with the
provisions of this subsection and also with such other conditions as the
council may deem necessary to impose for the proper protection of persons and
property.
      7.   Responsible Party: The sponsoring organization shall be responsible
for the CCE and for all necessary planning, physical facilities, equipment,
fire lanes, and removal, cleanup, and staffing. The sponsoring organization
shall be responsible for any necessary permits and code requirements for the
conduct of such CCE as may be required by county and state agencies and
coordination with appropriate city departments, such as police and fire. All
necessary certificates and approvals by any health or other governmental
organization shall be in possession of the person representing the sponsoring
entity in such CCE.
      8.   Management: Subject to the minimum requirements imposed by this
subsection, the CCE sponsor shall:
         a.   Promulgate rules and regulations for the CCE, including rules and
regulations to maintain the theme or character of the CCE. A copy of the rules
and regulations shall be submitted to the business license clerk prior to the
CCE.
         b.   Have control over the terms and conditions under which persons
chosen to provide vending services will operate at a CCE including, but not
limited to, products sold, hours of sale, fees, vendor locations and issuance
of seller permits.
         c.   Take any other actions which are necessary for the efficient
management and operation of the CCE.
      9.   Minimum Requirements: The CCE sponsor shall abide by the following
minimum requirements. These minimum requirements shall be deemed a part of the
permit conditions and may be supplemented by resolution of the city council.
         a.   Maintain openings between vendor booths or sizes, and at
locations and distances, required by the city. The required openings shall be
identified on the CCE sponsor's street plan.
         b.   Not use any permanent or semipermanent paint or other markers to
delineate or mark the location or other direction on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or parking lot.
         c.   Not discriminate in the selection of any vendor on the basis of
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or familial status, or violate any
law with respect to the selection of any vendor.
         d.   Require that all vendors obtain and display all appropriate
permits, licenses, and certificates, and comply with all applicable federal,
state and local laws, ordinances, and regulations.
         e.   Require that all vendors maintain their spaces in a clean and
sanitary condition, including the removal of containers, waste and trimmings
before leaving the area.
         f.   Require that vendors take sufficient measures to keep the city
storm drain system free from contamination, and require that food vendors take
special precaution to keep grease and other waste products off all public
streets, sidewalks, alleys and parking lots.
         g.   Provide on site personnel who can be contacted by appropriate
city officials for immediate corrective action either for noncompliance with
this subsection or the permit conditions, for emergencies, or for actions
deemed necessary by the city official. Such personnel shall be equipped with
appropriate means of communication to be made known to the city by the CCE
sponsor prior to the CCE.
         h.   Distribute the rules and regulations to each person participating
in the CCE.
      10.   Cost Of CCE: The CCE sponsor will be responsible for the costs
associated with the CCE, including, but not limited to, the cost of city
services related to the CCE, and the cost of repair of any damage caused to any
public property and rights of way, including landscaping. The CCE sponsor may
apply to the city council for cooperation in presenting a CCE and request
financial assistance for some or all of the costs of city services related to
the CCE.
      11.   Permit To Sell: No person shall sell or offer to sell any item at
the CCE except under the authority of a valid permit approved by the CCE
sponsor. The CCE sponsor shall designate a person or persons responsible for
issuing permits to sell. A seller's permit shall not be required for existing
businesses selling merchandise from their stores. Whenever the CCE sponsor in
good faith believes that a vendor has violated the conditions of the seller's
permit, the CCE sponsor may immediately suspend the seller's permit. Vendors
shall have an opportunity to appeal the denial or suspension of a seller's
permit as set forth in subsection E20 of this section. Permits to sell shall
give a seller (including vendors, peddlers and other sellers) the privilege of
selling at the CCE only if the following conditions are met:
         a.   The seller properly files an application for a permit to sell at
the CCE with the CCE sponsor.
         b.   The seller complies with all federal, state and local laws and
regulations relating to the CCE, including the rules and regulations of the CCE
sponsor.
         c.   The seller obtains all required permits, licenses and
certificates.
         d.   The seller pays all required fees to the appropriate authorities,
including any fees due the sponsor.
         e.   The seller grants permission to the CCE sponsor, or an authorized
representative, to enter the seller's premises for the reasonable inspection of
land, facilities, and records, in order to determine whether the seller is in
compliance with the permit conditions, the rules and regulations of the CCE
sponsor, and the terms of this subsection.
      12.   Peddlers And Itinerant Vendors: All peddler and itinerant vendor
permits and licenses issued by the city shall be deemed suspended for the
duration of any CCE. All permit and license holders shall be notified of this
provision. No person holding a peddler or itinerant vendor permit or license
shall sell merchandise within the designated CCE area for the duration of any
declared CCE unless the holder of the peddler or itinerant vendor permit or
license has a written agreement with the CCE sponsor to participate in the CCE,
or otherwise has a seller's permit from the CCE sponsor. The CCE sponsor shall
allow peddler and itinerant vendor permit and license holders with suspended
city permits and licenses under this subsection the same opportunity to
participate in a declared CCE as the CCE sponsor offers to other vendors.
      13.   Sidewalks: The city shall not approve vendor or sidewalk sales or
other activities within the closure area for a CCE. The sponsoring entity may
allow such sales or events, however selling activity during a parade must take
place in conformity with subsection G of this section.
      14.   Parades: Any person or organization desiring to have a parade as a
CCE or in connection with a CCE, and all vendors, peddlers, solicitors, or
merchants not located inside a commercial location, shall comply with
subsection G of this section in addition to the provisions of this subsection.
      15.   Interference: It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere
with, disrupt or impede a permitted CCE. It shall also be unlawful for a person
to put up any booth, table, chair, stool, structure, vehicle or piece of
equipment in any public area located within a designated CCE area for which a
CCE sponsor has been issued a permit without consent of the CCE sponsor. This
subsection E15 shall not apply to persons acting under the direction or control
of the city.
      16.   Business License Fees: Any individual, company, firm,
concessionaire, fair operator, carnival operator, etc., who engages in,
conducts, organizes, or promotes business for profit shall pay a business
license fee of one dollar ($1.00) per day per amusement, entertainment,
exhibit, ride or per booth, space, stall, stand or other unenclosed location
used for the purpose of advertising, promoting, or sale of, or taking orders
for, goods or services; except that no individual, company, firm
concessionaire, fair operator, carnival operator, etc., who possesses a valid
city business license shall be subject to separate licensing pursuant to this
subsection E16.
The nonprofit sponsor shall collect said fee and remit the fee to the city
within five (5) working days following the CCE. Said remittance shall be
accompanied by a complete list of participants and consecutively numbered
receipts written in triplicate, containing the name, address and telephone
number of the licensee, and the licensee's California seller's permit number.
Said receipts shall be furnished by the city. One copy of the receipt shall be
furnished to the licensee, one copy filed with the finance department of the
city, and one copy retained by the CCE sponsor for a period of three (3) years
for audit purposes.
      17.   Charges And Exhibit Fees: The sponsoring entity may impose a
reasonable charge or exhibit fee on each participating seller or exhibitor and
shall be responsible for enforcing all requirements of this subsection and
regulations imposed by the sponsoring entity. Any net profit received by the
sponsoring organization shall be utilized for the civic, artistic, cultural,
charitable, educational, veteran or benevolent activities of the organization
within the city of Porterville.
      18.   Insurance: The council shall condition the granting of a CCE permit
upon the sponsoring entity's filing with the council a policy of public
liability insurance in which the city has been named as insured or coinsured
with the permittee. The policy of insurance shall insure the city, its
officers, and its employees against all claims arising out of, or in connection
with, the issuance of the CCE permit or the operation of the permittee or its
agents or representatives, pursuant to the permit. The policy of insurance
shall provide coverage of no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence of bodily injury and property damage, combined single limit.
      19.   Violations: Any person who violates the provisions of this
subsection E shall be deemed guilty of either a misdemeanor or an infraction,
in accordance with section
15-21 of this article. In addition, civil penalties of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a first violation and up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
subsequent violations may be imposed. Every day that any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. In addition, the CCE sponsor is
authorized to take civil action to enforce the requirements of this subsection,
and the rules and regulations established by the CCE sponsor. The remedies
provided herein shall not be exclusive, and the violation of any provision of
this subsection E shall be subject to other remedies as may be provided by law.
      20.   Appeal Of The Denial Or Suspension Of A Seller Permit: After the
denial or suspension of a seller's permit, the CCE sponsor shall allow the
vendor an opportunity for an appeal hearing before the CCE sponsor's governing
board, or if no governing board, the person with the highest decision making
authority, to determine if the permit shall be issued, further suspended,
reinstated, or revoked for repeated violations. The hearing shall be held
within a reasonable time, depending on the date and duration of the CCE, no
later than thirty five (35) days. The CCE sponsor shall establish procedures
for the conduct of the hearing.
      21.   Other Rules And Regulations; Applicability: The CCE sponsor shall
comply with all other applicable city ordinances, resolutions, policies, rules
and regulations.
      22.   Compatibility With State And Federal Laws And Constitutions: It is
the intention of the city council and the people of the city of Porterville
that these subsections shall be interpreted in a manner compatible with the
state of California constitution and the United States constitution and the
laws of the state of California and the United States.
      23.   Severability: If any paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
subsection are for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, that
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter. The city council hereby declares that it would have passed these
subsections, irrespective of the fact any one or more sections, subsections,
sentences, clauses or phrases might be declared unconstitutional or invalid.
   F.   Fortune Telling:
      1.   Purposes And Findings:
         a.   The practice of "fortune telling", as defined in this subsection,
has historically been subject to abuse by certain unscrupulous practitioners
using the practice to commit fraud and larceny upon clients.
         b.   It is the purpose of this subsection to regulate the practice of
fortune telling in such a manner as to reduce the risk of fraud and larceny to
clients while allowing fortune tellers to provide their services to clients
with only minimal restrictions.
         c.   The provisions of this subsection requiring a permit, posting of
fees, providing receipts and allowing client recordation of the consultation,
will make it more difficult for an unscrupulous fortune teller to commit fraud
or larceny, and yet, as informational regulations, will not affect the nature
of the information conveyed by the fortune teller nor the manner in which it is
conveyed. These regulations require only minimal expense and effort on the part
of the fortune teller and will not, therefore, impose any undue burden on their
practices.
         d.   "Fortune telling" for entertainment purposes, as defined in this
subsection, does not create the same risk of fraud and larceny by an
unscrupulous practitioner as would the practice with an individual client
because it is done with a group at a public place for the purpose of
entertaining and not to deal with the private concerns of an individual.
         e.   For these and other reasons, the provisions of this subsection
are necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the community.
      2.   Permit Required: No person shall conduct, engage in, carry on,
participate in, or practice fortune telling or cause the same to be done for
pay without having first obtained a permit therefor.
      3.   Definitions: As used in this subsection:
   FOR PAY: For a fee, reward, donation, loan or receipt of anything of value.
   FORTUNE TELLING: Shall mean and include telling of fortunes, forecasting of
future events or furnishing of any information not otherwise obtainable by the
ordinary process of knowledge, by means of any occult or psychic power, faculty
or force, including, but not limited to, clairvoyance, clairaudience,
cartomancy, phrenology, spirits, tea leaves or other such reading, mediumship,
seership, prophecy, augury, astrology, palmistry, divination, soothsaying,
mantic, necromancy, mind reading, telepathy, or other craft, art, cards,
talisman, charm, potion, magnetism, magnetized article or substance, crystal
gazing, or magic, of any kind or nature.
      4.   Permit Application: Every natural person who, for pay, conducts,
engages in, carries on, or practices fortune telling shall file a separate
verified application or a permit with the business license officer. The
application shall contain:
         a.   The name, home and business address, and home and business
telephone number of the applicant.
         b.   The record of conviction for violations of the law, excluding
minor traffic violations.
         c.   The fingerprints of the applicant on a form provided by the
police department.
         d.   The address, city and state, and the approximate dates where and
when the applicant practiced a similar business, either alone or in conjunction
with others.
         e.   A nonrefundable application fee in an amount of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) to cover cost incurred by the city in staff time, and other
expenses involved in investigation and processing of permit.
      5.   Investigation: Upon the filing of the application, it shall be
referred to the police department for investigation, report and recommendation.
The investigation shall be conducted to verify the facts contained in the
application and any supporting data. The investigation shall be completed and a
report and recommendation made in writing to the business license officer
within twenty one (21) days after the filing of the application, unless the
applicant requests or consents to an extension of the time period. If the
report recommends denial of the permit to the applicant, the grounds for the
recommended denial shall be set forth therein.
      6.   Hearing And Decision By Business License Officer: The business
license officer shall consider the application and the police department report
and recommendation at a hearing held not less than seven (7) nor more than
fourteen (14) days following receipt of the police department report described
in subsection F5 of this section. Notice of the time and place of the hearing
and a copy of the police department report shall be given to the applicant
personally or by certified mail by the business license officer at least five
(5) days prior to the hearing. Any interested parties shall be heard at the
hearing. City shall have the burden of proof to show the permit should be
denied. The decision of the business license officer to approve, deny or
conditionally approve the permit shall be in writing, and if adverse to the
applicant, shall contain findings of fact and a determination of the issues
presented. Unless the applicant agrees in writing to an extension of time, the
business license officer shall make his or her decision approving, denying, or
conditionally approving the permit within twenty four (24) hours after
completion of the hearing on the application for a permit and shall notify the
applicant of his or her action by personal service or certified mail.
      7.   Approval Of Permit: The business license officer shall approve or
conditionally approve the permit if he or she makes all of the following
findings:
         a.   All the information contained in the application and supporting
data is true;
         b.   The applicant has not, within one year from the date of the
application, been convicted of any violation of this subsection or crimes
involving prediction of future events by the occult arts, larceny, perjury,
bribery, extortion, fraud, or crimes involving moral turpitude;
         c.   The applicant has paid the required business license fee; and
         d.   The applicant agrees to abide by and comply with all conditions
of the permit and applicable laws.
      8.   Term Of Permit: The term of the permit and the term of the business
license shall be for one year from the date of issuance. A renewal application
shall be filed no later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the
permit and shall be processed in the same manner as a new application.
      9.   Posting Of Fees:
         a.   Each person required to obtain a permit pursuant to this
subsection shall post on his or her business premises a sign containing the
following information:
            (1)   The true name of the fortune telling practitioner;
            (2)   Each service provided by the fortune telling practitioner;
            (3)   The fees charged for each service provided by the fortune
telling practitioner;
            (4)   The statement, "By law, this business is prohibited from
charging or soliciting any fee, payment or remuneration beyond these
established rates".
         b.   The sign required by this subsection F9 shall be prominently
posted in the interior of the business premises at a point near the entry and
shall be conspicuously visible to every person seeking the services of the
fortune teller. The sign lettering shall be of uniform size with each letter at
least one-half inch (1/2") in height.
         c.   If the fortune telling service is provided at a location other
than the fortune teller's permanent place of business, the fortune teller shall
provide the information required by this subsection on eight and one-half by
eleven inch (81/2 x 11") paper and legibly printed or typewritten. The paper
shall also include the name and permanent address of the person providing the
fortune telling services. A true, correct and complete copy of such paper shall
be given to each client prior to providing any fortune telling services.
         d.   No person shall charge any fee, payment, remuneration, or item of
value for fortune telling services in excess of the fees set forth on the sign
or paper required by this subsection F9.
      10.   Receipts: Prior to the acceptance of any money or item of value
from a client, other than the acceptance of a gratuitous tip given voluntarily
by the client, which is in addition to the fee, the fortune teller shall issue
a written receipt to the client, clearly showing:
         a.   Date;
         b.   Name of client;
         c.   Amount of money received or specific description of item of value
received; and
         d.   Purpose for which the money or item of value was received.
      11.   Client's Record Of Consultation: No person engaging in fortune
telling services shall prohibit a client from making an audio recording or
taking written notes of the information conveyed by the fortune teller.
      12.   Exception Entertainment: The provisions of this subsection shall
not apply to any person engaged solely in the business of entertaining the
public by demonstrations of fortune telling at public places and in the
presence of and within the hearing of all other persons in attendance, and at
which no questions are answered as part of such entertainment except in a
manner to permit all persons present at such public place to hear such answers.
      13.   Exception; Religious Practice: The provisions of this subsection
shall not be applicable to any person conducting or participating in any
religious ceremony or service when such person holds a certificate of
ordination as a minister, missionary, medium, healer, clairvoyant, or similar
position (hereinafter collectively referred to as "minister") from any bona
fide church or religious association having a creed or set of religious
principles that is recognized by all churches of like faith which provides for
fortune telling; provided, that:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection F13c of this section, the
minister's fees, gratuities, emoluments, and profits shall be regularly
accounted for and paid solely to or for the benefit of the bona fide church or
religious association, as defined in this subsection.
         b.   The minister holding a certificate of ordination from such bona
fide church or religious association, as defined in this subsection, shall file
with the business license officer a certified copy of the minister's
certificate of ordination and the minister's name, age, street address, and
telephone number in this city where the activity set forth in this subsection
is to be conducted.
         c.   Such bona fide church or religious association, as defined in
this subsection, may pay to its ministers a salary or compensation based upon a
percentage basis, pursuant to an agreement between the church or religious
association and the minister which is embodied in a resolution and transcribed
in the minutes of such church or religious association.
   G.   Parades:
      1.   Application And Approval: Parades will only be allowed in
conjunction with a community civic event referenced in subsection E of this
section.
      2.   Selling Activity During A Parade: In order to maintain public safety
and promote the good order of a parade, no vendor, peddler, solicitor, or
merchant shall be permitted in the parade route once the parade begins. No
vendor, peddler, solicitor, or merchant shall be permitted to conduct business
on sidewalks or walkways or other areas that may impede pedestrian traffic. Any
vendor, peddler, solicitor, or merchant not located inside a commercial
location shall be limited to side streets once the parade begins. No vendor,
peddler, solicitor, or merchant shall impede the view of any spectator during
the event. All vendors, peddlers, solicitors, and merchants shall be prohibited
from selling products at or near the event that are deemed to be a nuisance or
contrary to the good order of the parade. These items include, but are not
limited to:
         a.   Silly string;
         b.   Snap caps;
         c.   Party poppers;
         d.   Any projectile and/or launcher.
      3.   Movement Of Public Safety Equipment: The conduct of such parade
shall not interfere with the movement of firefighting or police equipment.
(Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984; Ord. 1326, 5-7-1985; Ord. 1346, 3-18-1986; Ord. 1384 §
2, 8-4-1987; Ord. 1584, 10-19-1999; Ord. 1586, 5-16-2000; Ord. 1612, 8-20-2002;
Ord. 1613 §§ 1, 2, 3, 9-17-2002; Ord. 1625, 11-19-2002; Ord. 1718 § 1, 3-20-
2007)
15-21: VIOLATION:
Any person violating this chapter or any provisions thereof shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that
any provision of this chapter is violated is a separate and distinct offense
and shall be punishable as a separate and distinct offense. Notwithstanding the
classification of a violation of this article as a misdemeanor, at the time an
action is commenced to enforce provisions of this article, the trial court,
upon recommendation of the prosecuting attorney, may reduce the charged offense
from a misdemeanor to an infraction. Any person convicted of an infraction
under this article shall be punished by:
   A.   A fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation;
   B.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second
violation of this article within one year; and
   C.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
additional violation of this article within one year. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984;
Ord. 1531 § A3, 6-18-1996)
ARTICLE II. LICENSE TAXES
SECTION:
15-22: How And When Payable
15-23: Gross Receipts, Semiannual
15-24: Other Than Gross Receipts
15-22: HOW AND WHEN PAYABLE:
All license fees shall be payable in advance and shall be refundable only as
allowed in this chapter.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, all annual license taxes, under the
provisions of this chapter, shall be due and payable in advance on July 1 of
each year.
Except as otherwise herein provided, license taxes, other than annual, required
hereunder shall be due and payable as follows:
   A.   Semiannual license taxes, on January 1 and July 1 of each year.
   B.   Quarterly license taxes, on the first day of July, October, January and
April of each year.
   C.   Monthly license taxes, on the first day of each and every month.
   D.   Weekly license taxes on Monday of each week in advance.
   E.   Daily license taxes each day in advance. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-23: GROSS RECEIPTS, SEMIANNUAL:
   A.   Classification A:
Gross Receipts License Tax
Gross Receipts              License Tax
$ 0.00    to    $ 25,0$ 25.00
25,001.00    to          50.00
   50,000.00
50,001.00    to          75.00
   75,000.00
75,001.00    to          100.00
   100,000.00
100,001.00    to         125.00
   150,000.00
150,001.00    to         150.00
   200,000.00
200,001.00    to         200.00
   300,000.00
300,001.00    to         300.00
   400,000.00
400,001.00    to         400.00
   600,000.00
600,001.00    to         500.00
   800,000.00
800,001.00    to         600.00
   1,000,000.00
1,000,001.00    and over 700.00 plus, per each additional $200,000.00    
                            $100.00
 
Acupuncture.
Appraiser.
Architect.
Assayer.
Attorney at law.
Auctioneer.
Auditor or accountant.
Bacteriologist.
Chemists or chemical laboratory.
Chiropractor.
Civil engineer.
Collection agency.
Dental laboratory.
Dentists.
Electrical engineer.
Financial planner.
Geologist.
Hydraulic or mining engineer.
Insurance adjuster.
Insurance broker.
Investment counselor.
Mechanical engineer.
Medical laboratory.
Optician.
Optometrist.
Osteopath.
Personal loans/supplier of financing.
Physician.
Podiatrist.
Psychiatrist.
Psychoanalyst.
Psychologist.
Real estate broker.
Stock salesperson.
Stockbroker.
Structural engineer.
Surgeon.
Surveyor.
Veterinarian.
All other professions not hereinabove specifically set forth, and other
businesses not specifically set forth in this chapter, operating on a net
profit of ten and one- hundredth percent (10.01%) or more will be classified in
the above category.
   B.   Classification B:
Gross Receipts License Tax
Gross Receipts          License Tax
$ 0.00    to    $    $ 25.00
25,000.00
25,001.00    to         47.50
   50,000.00
50,001.00    to         65.00
   75,000.00
75,001.00    to         80.00
   100,000.00
100,001.00    to        95.00
   150,000.00
150,001.00    to        110.00
   200,000.00
200,001.00    to        135.00
   300,000.00
300,001.00    to        160.00
   400,000.00
400,001.00    to        185.00
   600,000.00
600,001.00    to        210.00
   800,000.00
800,001.00    to        235.00
   1,000,000.00
1,000,001.00    and     260.00 plus, per each additional $200,000.00    
over                    $25.00
 
Auction sales.
Bakeries.
Barbershops.
Bedsprings and mattress manufacturers.
Book publishing and printing.
Builders.
Bus lines.
Confectioners.
Contractors.
Dairy product manufacturers.
Dry cleaning plants and agencies.
Foundries.
Fruit and vegetable canneries.
Gardening.
Handymen.
Hospitals.
Hotels, motels, auto courts, etc.
Iron and steel fabricators.
Junk dealer/collector.
Laundry.
Linen supply.
Machine shops.
Maintenance service - building, janitorial, yard, etc.
Manufacture of agricultural or industrial chemicals.
Manufacture of bodies for automobiles, buses, or trucks.
Manufacture of concrete, gypsum, and plaster products.
Manufacture of paints, varnishes, and lacquers.
Maternity homes.
Meat and provisions packers.
Mortuaries.
Newspapers, other than daily, with offices inside city.
Petroleum refineries.
Photographer (itinerant photographers, see subsection 15-24A29 of this
article).
Printers.
Private patrol, private patrol service.
Recyclable waste hauler.
Renting of automobiles, trucks and trailers.
Rest homes.
Sanatorium.
Secondhand dealers.
Soft drink bottles.
Stamp redemption.
Trade schools.
Transient vehicles and recreation vehicle parks.
Tree trimming.
Water companies not under city franchise.
Manufacturers and other businesses not specifically set forth in this chapter,
operating on a net profit of ten percent (10%) to four and one-hundredth
percent (4.01%) will be classified in the above category.
   C.   Classification C:
Gross Receipts License Tax
Gross Receipts          License Tax
$ 0.00    to    $    $ 25.00
25,000.00
25,001.00    to         45.00
   50,000.00
50,001.00    to         60.00
   75,000.00
75,001.00    to         75.00
   100,000.00
100,001.00    to        90.00
   150,000.00
150,001.00    to        105.00
   200,000.00
200,001.00    to        120.00
   300,000.00
300,001.00    to        135.00
   400,000.00
400,001.00    to        150.00
   600,000.00
600,001.00    to        165.00
   800,000.00
800,001.00    to        180.00
   1,000,000.00
1,000,001.00    and     195.00 plus, per each additional $200,000.00    
over                    $15.00
 
Bowling alleys.
Gasoline service stations.
Ice depot and production.
Restaurants.
Retail milk trucks.
Rock, sand, gravel, dirt, mixed concrete, etc.
Skating rinks.
Theaters and movie houses.
Retailers and other businesses not specifically set forth in this chapter,
operating on a net profit of four percent (4%) to two and one-hundredth percent
(2.01%) will be classified in the above category.
   D.   Classification D:
Gross Receipts License Tax
Gross Receipts          License Tax
$ 0.00    to    $    $ 25.00
25,000.00
25,001.00    to         40.00
   50,000.00
50,001.00    to         50.00
   75,000.00
75,001.00    to         60.00
   100,000.00
100,001.00    to        75.00
   150,000.00
150,001.00    to        90.00
   200,000.00
200,001.00    to        100.00
   300,000.00
300,001.00    to        110.00
   400,000.00
400,001.00    to        125.00
   600,000.00
600,001.00    to        140.00
   800,000.00
800,001.00    to        155.00
   1,000,000.00
1,000,001.00    and     170.00 plus, per each additional $200,000.00    
over                    $15.00
 
Automobile dealers.
Automobile wrecking.
Drays, motor trucks, etc., for transportation of freight.
Gasoline and oil distributors.
Trucking or delivery, with offices within city.
Wholesale and other businesses not specifically set forth in this chapter,
operating on a net profit of two percent (2%) or under will be classified in
the above category.
   E.   Classification; Procedure For Review: In any case where a business
license holder or an applicant for a business license believes that his
individual business is not assigned to the proper classification under this
section because of circumstances peculiar to it, as distinguished from other
businesses of the same kind, he may apply to the collector for
reclassification. Such application shall contain such relevant information as
the collector may deem necessary and required in order to determine whether the
applicant's individual business is properly classified. The collector shall
then conduct an investigation, following which he shall assign the applicant's
individual business to the classification shown to be proper on the basis of
such investigation. The proper classification is that classification which, in
the opinion of the collector, most nearly fits the applicant's individual
business. The reclassification shall not be retroactive but shall apply at the
time of the next regularly ensuing calculation of the applicant's tax. No
business shall be classified more than once in one year.
   F.   Reclassification; Notice Of Action; Procedure For Hearing: The
collector shall notify the applicant of the action taken on the application for
reclassification. Such notice shall be given by serving it personally or by
depositing it in the United States post office at Porterville, California,
postage prepaid, addressed to the applicant at his last known address. Such
applicant may, within fifteen (15) days after the mailing or serving of such
notice, make written request to the collector for a hearing on his application
for reclassification. If such request is made within the time prescribed, the
collector shall cause the matter to be set for hearing. The collector shall
give the applicant at least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the
hearing in the manner prescribed above for serving notice of the action taken
on the application for reclassification. The collector shall consider all
evidence adduced and render his decision. Written notice of such findings shall
be served upon the applicant in the manner prescribed above for service of
notice of the action taken on the application for reclassification. The
decision of the collector may be appealed to the city council. (Ord. 1324, 12-
18-1984; Ord. 1358 § 2, 7-15-1986)
15-24: OTHER THAN GROSS RECEIPTS:
   A.   Every person who engages in a business within the city as specified
below shall pay a license tax of the amount and frequency indicated:
      1.   Advertising solicitor, the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
semiannually for each person so employed.
      2.   "Amusements, amusement rides", as defined in section
15-1 of this chapter, wherein they are held in conjunction with and on premises
owned or leased by commercial houses for commercial purposes, the sum of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per period not to exceed four (4) days per calendar
month; wherein amusement rides are not conducted as a promotion for a
commercial house, the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day per unit or
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year per unit.
      3.   "Arcade", as defined in section
15-1 of this chapter, of five (5) or more amusement machines, games of chance
or skill, at one location, shall pay five dollars ($5.00) per machine
semiannually.
      4.   Auctioneers shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification A, of this article except that those auctioneers who are
duly licensed by the state of California and whose permanent place of business
is not within the city limits shall pay no license tax.
      5.   Auctions sales. Reserved.
      6.   Barbershops shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      7.   Boxing and wrestling matches. Every person conducting, carrying on
or managing boxing or wrestling matches in the city shall pay the following
license: Fifty dollars ($50.00) per day or one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
semiannually.
      8.   Bus lines, who transport passengers from or to a terminus within the
city, shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article, except that common carriers shall be
exempt.
      9.   Card rooms, the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
calendar quarter per table, except that tables where the players or
participants at said table play solely for merchandise or so called "garbage"
games, the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per calendar quarter per table.
      10.   Carnival, including each separate show, game, amusement,
exhibition, vaudeville or dramatic performance, game of chance or skill, food
and drink stands, the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per day.
"Amusements, amusement rides" as defined in section
15-1 of this chapter shall be licensed as provided in subsection A12 of this
section.
      11.   Circuses. For the purpose of this section, a "circus" is defined to
be an exhibition or entertainment at which feats of horsemanship, acrobatic
feats, and trained or wild animals are exhibited or displayed, to which
exhibition or entertainment an admission fee is charged. For any person
conducting, carrying on or managing a circus, or other similar exhibition, side
show, or other show or concert to a circus, the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00) per day.
      12.   Coin operated machines. For each machine operated by depositing
therein coin(s) or operated by other consideration of value, the sum of five
dollars ($5.00) per machine semiannually. Machines owned and operated by a
person in conjunction with his established business shall be licensed under the
gross receipts of the established business. Newspaper vending machines, money
changing machines and coin operated laundries are exempt from this subsection
A12.
      13.   Contractors, and every person who is required to have a state
contractor's license and who is conducting, carrying on or managing the
business of a contractor, shall be required to have a city contractor's
business license. Contractor's license fee shall be paid semiannually under the
gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      14.   Demonstrators and hawkers. For every person who advertises or calls
attention to the business, profession, trade or calling of any person by giving
demonstration on foot, or from any wagon, automobile or vehicle, or from any
stand, box or platform, on any street, alley, sidewalk or place, or in any
doorway of any room or building, unenclosed or vacant lot, the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per month, or fraction thereof; provided, that
nothing in this subsection A14 shall be deemed to authorize licensing of any
act now prohibited by law or ordinance. The provisions of this subsection A14
shall not apply to newsboys selling newspapers.
      15.   Detective agency or private detective, the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) semiannually.
      16.   Flea market or swap meet operator, the sum of twenty five dollars
($25.00) semiannually, plus one dollar ($1.00) per day per single space or area
of contiguous spaces rented by the vendor, except that if a vendor possesses
and exhibits a current and valid business license issued by the city then the
operator need not remit the one dollar ($1.00) per day for any such vendor.
Said fee shall be collected by the operator from the vendor and remitted to the
city on a weekly basis, along with a complete list of the name and address of
all vendors who were exempt from paying the tax pursuant to this subsection
A16. Said remittance shall be accompanied by consecutively numbered receipts
written in triplicate, containing the name and address of the vendor, the make
and license number of a vehicle owned by the vendor, and the vendor's
California seller's permit number. Said receipt shall be furnished by the city.
One copy of the receipt shall be furnished to the vendor, one copy filed with
the finance department of the city on a weekly basis, and one copy to be
retained by the swap meet operator for a period of three (3) years for audit
purposes.
16.1. Fortune teller. The business license fee for "fortune telling" for pay,
as defined in subsection
15-20F of this chapter, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per year.
      17.   Handyman shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      18.   Hotels, motels, auto courts, etc., shall be licensed under the
gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      19.   Insurance broker shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      20.   Itinerant vendor, itinerant merchant, the sum of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per day per person for each person so employed, with a minimum fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      21.   Junk dealer and/or collector shall be licensed under the gross
receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      22.   Maintenance service: building, janitorial, yard, etc., shall be
licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      23.   Newspapers, daily, with offices within the city, the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) semiannually.
      24.   Newspapers, other than daily, with offices within the city, shall
be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      25.   Newspaper agents and/or distributors, the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) semiannually.
      26.   Paid promoters, the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
semiannually.
      27.   Pawnbrokers. For any person conducting, carrying on or managing a
pawnshop or acting as pawnbrokers, the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
semiannually.
      28.   Peddler, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per day per person so
employed, with a minimum fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      29.   Photographer, itinerant, the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
semiannually for each person so employed.
      30.   Private police, private patrol service shall be licensed under the
gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      31.   Real estate broker, who maintains an office or place of business
within the city and who engages in the activities of acting as a real estate
broker in the sale or lease of any property within the city, the license fee
shall be under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification A, of this article. Said gross receipts shall include
gross commissions of the broker and gross commissions of all salespersons
acting as agents of the broker.
      32.   Real estate broker, out of city, who does not maintain an office or
place of business within the city but who engages in the activities of acting
as a real estate broker in the sale or lease of any property within the city,
the license fee shall be under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification A, of this article. Said gross receipts shall include
gross commissions of the broker and gross commissions of all salespersons
acting as agents of the broker.
      33.   Reserved.
      34.   Shoeshine parlors or persons engaged in the business of shining
shoes, the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the initial application fee
inclusive of license fee for first semiannual license period. Thereafter the
renewal license fee shall be the sum of seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50)
semiannually.
      35.   Solicitor, the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day per
person so employed.
      36.   Solicitor, by means of telephone, the sum of twenty five dollars
($25.00) semiannually per person so employed.
      37.   Stamp redemption shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      38.   Stockbroker shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification A, of this article.
      39.   Stock salesman, shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification A, of this article.
39.1. Street vendors/peddlers, the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
semiannually for each vehicle, cart, or any other type of conveyance.
      40.   Taxicabs or vehicles for hire, the sum of twenty five dollars
($25.00) semiannually for each vehicle.
      41.   Trade school. Every person engaged in conducting or operating a
trade school shall be licensed under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      42.   Transient trailer and recreation vehicle parks shall be licensed
under the gross receipts section
15-23, classification B, of this article.
      43.   Trucking or delivering, with offices within the city, but not
subject to public utilities commission regulations, shall be licensed under the
gross receipts section
15-23, classification D, of this article.
      44.   Trucking or delivering, with offices outside the city, but not
subject to the public utilities commission regulations, shall pay the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) semiannually for each vehicle with one ton or less
load capacity, and the sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00) semiannually for
each vehicle with load capacity of over one ton.
   B.   Any business not designated under this section or in any other section
of this chapter or in any other ordinance or code of the city of Porterville
shall be licensed under section
15-23 of this article.
All licenses shall be paid in advance, in the legal currency of the United
States, at the office of the city.
No greater or less amount of money shall be charged or received for any license
than is provided in this chapter, and no license shall be sold or issued for
any period of time other than is provided in this chapter. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-
1984; Ord. 1358 § 1, 7-15-1986; Ord. 1384 § 3, 8-4-1987; Ord. 1494, 3-15-1994;
Ord. 1531 § A4, 6-18-1996)
ARTICLE III. GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE OR REMOVAL OF BUSINESS SALE
SECTION:
15-25.1: License Required
15-25.2: Surrender Of Business License
15-25.3: Application For License
15-25.4: License Issuance
15-25.5: License Renewal
15-25.6: Penalties
15-25.7: Revocability Of License
15-25.8: Appeals
15-25.9: Regulations
15-25.10: License Tax
15-25.1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
A license shall be obtained by any person before selling or offering to sell
any goods at a sale to be advertised or held out by means to be a "going out of
business sale" or a "removal of business sale", as defined under section
15-1 of this chapter. The provisions of this article shall not apply to or
affect persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent
jurisdiction or persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as
public officials. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-25.2: SURRENDER OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A.   Upon being issued a permit pursuant to this article for a going out of
business sale or removal of business sale, the permittee shall surrender
concurrently to the finance director each business license the permittee may
hold at that time applicable to the business location covered by the
application for a permit under this article, if the sale is advertised or
conducted in a manner calculated to convey to the public the belief that the
business will cease to be conducted at that location upon the disposal of the
goods to be placed on sale.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom a closeout sale permit is
issued to engage in a business of similar nature at the same location for a
period of one year following the closing date of the sale. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-
1984)
15-25.3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any person desiring to conduct a "going out of business sale" or a
"removal of business sale", as defined in this chapter, shall make a written
application to the collector setting forth and containing the following
information:
      1.   The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be subject of
the sale;
      2.   The true name and address of the person from whom he purchased the
goods to be sold and the price therefor, and if not purchased, the manner of
such acquisition;
      3.   A description of the place where such sale is to be held;
      4.   The nature of the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease, and the
effective date of termination of such occupancy;
      5.   The dates of the period of time in which the sale is to be
conducted;
      6.   A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale,
including the reason for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby
and the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
      7.   The means to be employed in advertising such sale, together with the
proposed context of any advertising;
      8.   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such
sale as disclosed by the applicant's records; said inventory shall be attached
to and become a part of the required application;
      9.   All goods included in such inventory shall have been purchased by
the applicant for resale on bona fide orders, without cancellation privileges,
and shall not comprise goods purchased on consignment.
Such inventory shall not include goods ordered in contemplation of conducting a
going out of business sale or a removal of business sale. Any unusual purchase
or additions to the stock of goods of the business hereby effected within sixty
(60) days before the filing of an application hereunder shall be deemed to be
of such character.
   B.   In the event of delay of construction of a new facility or remodeling
of a facility into which the business is to be relocated, which delay is not
the fault of the licensee, new merchandise ordered after the application for
removal of business sale may be offered for sale and excluded from this
restriction. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-25.4: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
The collector shall issue a license for a going out of business sale or a
removal of business sale after all requirements of this article have been met.
The license shall authorize the sale described in the application for a period
of not more than forty five (45) consecutive days, following the issuance
thereof for a going out of business sale and for a period of not more than
ninety (90) consecutive days following the issuance thereof for a removal of
business sale. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-25.5: LICENSE RENEWAL:
The collector shall renew a license for one period of time only, such period to
be in addition to the time permitted in the original license and not to exceed
forty five (45) consecutive days, when he ascertains:
   A.   The facts existing justify the renewal;
   B.   That the licensee has filed an application for renewal;
   C.   That the licensee has submitted with the application for renewal a
revised inventory showing the items on the original inventory remaining unsold
and not listing any goods not included in the original application and
inventory. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-25.6: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall hold, conduct or carry on a "going out of business sale"
or a "removal of business sale" as defined in this chapter, without securing a
license as herein provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1324, 12-
18-1984)
15-25.7: REVOCABILITY OF LICENSE:
The collector may revoke any going out of business sale or removal of business
sale license when any regulations set forth in this article are violated. Said
revocation may be appealed to the city council as set forth in subsection 15-
13A of this chapter. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-25.8: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the collector with respect to the
issuance or refusal to issue such license may appeal to the council by filing a
notice of appeal with the clerk of the council. The council shall thereupon fix
a time and place for hearing such appeal. The clerk of the council shall give
notice to such person of the time and place of hearing by serving it personally
or by depositing it in the United States post office at Porterville,
California, postage prepaid, addressed to such person at his last known
address. The council shall have authority to determine all questions raised on
such appeal. No such determination shall conflict with any substantive
provision of this article. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-25.9: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Established Business Requisite: No license shall be granted to any
person who has not been the bona fide owner of a business advertised or
described in the application for a license hereunder for a period of at least
twelve (12) months prior to the date of the proposed sale.
   B.   Restricted Location: Where a person applying for a license hereunder
operates more than one place of business, the license issued shall apply only
to the one store or branch specified in the application; and no other store or
branch shall advertise or represent that it is cooperating with or in any way
participating in the licensed sale, nor shall the store or branch conducting
the licensed sale advertise or represent that any other store or branch is
cooperating with or participating in any way in the licensed sale.
   C.   Operation At Other Than Fixed Premises: Any licensee transacting and
carrying on business, but not operating at a fixed place of business in the
city, shall keep the license upon his person at all times while transacting and
carrying on such business. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
15-25.10: LICENSE TAX:
   A.   Going Out Of Business Sale: The sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
period of not more than forty five (45) days; and a renewal fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for one additional forty five (45) day period.
   B.   Removal Of Business Sale: The sum of five dollars ($5.00) for a period
of not more than ninety (90) days; and a renewal fee of ten dollars ($10.00)
for one additional forty five (45) day period. (Ord. 1324, 12-18-1984)
ARTICLE IV. RESERVED
(Rep. by Ord. 1702 § 2, 8-15-2006)
ARTICLE V. LICENSES AND REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
15-40: Prohibited Uses, Conduct And Activities
15-41: Purpose And Intent
15-42: Classifications Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
15-43: Definitions
15-44: Permit Required
15-45: Application For Permit
15-46: Continuing Permit Obligations
15-47: Filing Of Completed Application
15-48: Issuance Of Permit
15-49: Processing Completed Application
15-50: Notification Of Permit Denial; Subsequent Application
15-51: Annual Permit Fee
15-52: Inspection
15-53: Administrative And Judicial Review Or Permit Denial, Suspension Or
Revocation
15-54: Transfer Of Permit
15-55: Registration Of New Employees/Independent Contractors
15-56: Business License Required
15-57: Business Operations
15-58: Prohibitions Regarding Minors And Sexually Oriented Businesses
15-59: Display Regulations
15-60: Additional Requirements
15-61: Exemptions
15-62: Criminal Penalties And Additional Legal, Equitable, And Injunctive
Relief
15-63: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
15-64: Immunity From Prosecution
15-65: Severability
15-40: PROHIBITED USES, CONDUCT AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   One of the important purposes of the regulations set forth in this
article is to discourage and to minimize the opportunity for criminal conduct.
As such, nothing in this article shall permit or be interpreted to permit any
use, conduct, and/or activity which is specifically prohibited under the
following California Penal Code sections:
      1.   Receipt of money for placement of person for purposes of
cohabitation (Penal Code § 266d).
      2.   Purchase of person for purposes of prostitution or placement of
person for immoral purposes (Penal Code § 266e).
      3.   Sale of person for immoral purposes (Penal Code § 266f).
      4.   Pimping (Penal Code § 266h).
      5.   Pandering (Penal Code § 266i).
      6.   Lewd or obscene conduct (Penal Code § 314).
      7.   Houses of ill fame (Penal Code § 315).
      8.   Disorderly houses which disturb the immediate neighborhood (Penal
Code § 316).
      9.   Places of prostitution (Penal Code § 317).
      10.   Place of prostitution; place of lewdness; place used as bathhouse
permitting conduct capable of transmitting AIDS (Penal Code § 11225).
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to permit or permit any
use, conduct, and/or activity which violates any federal, state or local law or
regulation.
   C.   A sexual encounter establishment is not a permitted use. For purposes
of these regulations, a "sexual encounter establishment" means any business or
commercial establishment that as one of its important business purposes offers
for any form of consideration a place where two (2) or more persons may
congregate, associate, or consort for the purpose of specified sexual
activities when one or more of the persons in the establishment is in a state
of nudity or where two (2) or more persons may congregate, associate, or
consort for the purpose of the exposure of specified anatomical areas where one
of the patrons of the establishment is in a state of nudity or state of
seminudity. The definition of "sexual encounter establishment" shall not
include an establishment where a medical practitioner, physiologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-41: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this article to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses. The provisions of
this article have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this article
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected
by the first amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this article to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-42: CLASSIFICATIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
The following uses and/or activities shall be classified as "sexually oriented
businesses":
   A.   Adult arcades.
   B.   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, and adult video stores.
   C.   Adult cabarets.
   D.   Adult motels.
   E.   Adult motion picture theaters.
   F.   Adult theaters.
   G.   Adult model studios. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-43: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, certain words and phrases are defined as follows:
   EMPLOYEE: A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
article;
   C.   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
article to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business; or
   E.   The substantial enlargement of any such sexually oriented business.
   NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: a) The appearance or display of human bare
buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple of the
female breast; or b) a state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a
human buttock, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple
of the female breast.
   OPERATOR: The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or person
in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED OR UNLICENSED PREMISES: Any premises that requires a license and/
or permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE: A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BUILDING REGULARLY FREQUENTED BY CHILDREN: Any building owned, leased
or held by the United States, the state, the county, the city, any special
district, school district, or any other agency or political subdivision of the
state or the United States, which building is used as a library, community
center, children's center, or any other use having special attraction to
children, or which building is often visited by children for social activities
unaccompanied by their parents or other adult custodians.
   PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREAS: Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, open space wilderness areas, or similar public land within
the city which is under the control, operation, or management of the city park
and recreation authorities.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities,
as identified on the latest equalized tax assessment roll.
   SCHOOL: Any public or private educational facility including, but not
limited to, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools,
primary schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools, middle schools,
high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools, continuation schools,
special education schools, junior colleges, and universities. School includes
the school grounds, but does not include the facilities used primarily for
another purpose and only incidentally as a school.
   SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areolae of the female breasts, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps and devices.
   SENSITIVE USE: Any cemetery; religious institution; school; public building
regularly frequented by children; public park; or boys' club, girls' club, or
similar youth organization.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Those businesses defined as follows:
      Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one
or more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar
machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer
persons each, are regularly available or used to show films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Store Or Adult Video Store: A commercial
establishment which: a) has a significant or substantial portion of its stock
in trade; or b) derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues;
or c) devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior floor or
display space; or d) devotes a significant or substantial part of its business
activities or employees' time, or advertising, to the sale, rental or viewing
for any form of consideration, of any one or more of the following:
      A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other visual
representatives which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
      B.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
      C.   An establishment may have other significant or substantial business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of
materials, depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, and still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to
exempt such establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult
novelty store or adult video store so long as one of its significant or
substantial business purposes is offering for sale or rental, for some form of
consideration, the specified materials which depict or describe specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, "bottle club", or similar
commercial establishment, which regularly features: a) seminude persons or live
performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical
areas, or by specified sexual activities; or b) films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      Adult Model Studio: Any place where a person appears seminude or who
displays specified anatomical areas or who engages in specified sexual
activities is provided for money or any form of consideration to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons. This term does not include a modeling class operated by a
proprietary school, licensed by the state of California; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; by a private
college or university which maintains and operates educational programs in
which credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or university
supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a structure which has no sign
visible from the exterior of the structure and no other advertising that
indicates a nude person is available for viewing, where in order to participate
in a class a student must enroll at least three (3) days in advance of the
class, and where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
      Adult Motel: A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which: a)
offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and which
regularly provides or makes available to patrons with closed circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
which advertises the availability of this sexually oriented type of material by
means of a sign visible from the public right of way or by means of any off
premises advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines,
pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television; or b) offers a sleeping room for
rent for a period of time less than ten (10) hours; or c) allows a tenant or
occupant to rent or subrent the sleeping room for a time period of less than
ten (10) hours.
      Adult Motion Picture Theater: Commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features seminude
persons or live performances which are characterized by exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
      Regularly Features Or Regularly Shown: With respect to an adult cabaret,
adult theater, or adult motion picture theater means a regular and substantial
course of conduct. The fact that a live performance or film which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities is exhibited on two (2) or more
occasions within a thirty (30) day period; three (3) or more occasions within a
sixty (60) day period; or four (4) or more occasions within a one hundred
eighty (180) day period, shall to the extent permitted by law be deemed to be a
regular and substantial course of conduct.
      Significant Or Substantial Portion: Such a percentage of its activities,
space allocation, revenues, advertising targeting, stock in trade, floor or
display space, business receipts, revenues, or other business undertakings as
to indicate to a reasonable person that the sexually oriented portion of the
business is one of its important activities, though not necessarily its only or
even primary activity; for this purpose, evidence that twenty five percent
(25%) or more of its revenue is derived from such sexually oriented activities
or materials, or that twenty five percent (25%) or more of its interior floor
space or display space is devoted to such sexually oriented activities or
materials, or that twenty five percent (25%) or more of its actual stock in
trade regularly displayed and immediately available for use, rental, purchase,
viewing or perusal is comprised of such sexually oriented materials, all as
defined in this section
15-43, shall be evidence that a "significant or substantial portion" of the
business is devoted to such uses.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: As used in this article, means and includes any
of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areolae; or
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: As used in this article, means and includes any
of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other intentional touching of buttocks for purpose of
sexual arousal, or fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals,
pubic region, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
   E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through D of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business as the floor areas existed on the
effective date of this article.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business.
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-
2001)
15-44: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall operate, maintain, manage or conduct a sexually oriented
business without a valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the city
for the particular type of sexually oriented business. Any sexually oriented
business in operation on the effective date hereof shall have thirty (30) days
from the effective date to apply to the city of Porterville for a sexually
oriented business license under the provisions of this article. (Ord. 1600 § 1,
5-1-2001)
15-45: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   The city's designee is responsible for granting, denying, revoking,
renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually oriented business permits for
proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses.
   B.   The city's designee shall be the city manager, or any other officer or
employee designated in writing by the city manager to deal with the provisions
of this article.
   C.   A completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name, any
aliases, and date of birth;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all general partners;
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
names and capacity of all officers, directors and the name and address of the
registered corporate agent for service of process.
      2.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that on the application, he/she must state the sexually
oriented business's fictitious name.
      3.   A statement as to whether the applicant or any other individuals
identified in the application, excluding any agent for service of process who
is not also listed as a director or officer, has had a previous permit under
this article, or any other similar sexually oriented business ordinance of the
city, denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation.
      4.   A statement as to whether the applicant or any other individuals
identified in the application, excluding any agent for service of process who
is not also listed as a director or officer, has been a sole proprietor,
general partner, officer, a director of a sexually oriented business that has
had a previous permit under this article, or any other similar sexually
oriented business ordinance of the city denied, suspended or revoked by the
city, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well.
      5.   The name(s) of the responsible person(s) who will be on the premises
to act as manager during the times that the business is open, or a statement
that the applicant has not yet selected the manager(s).
      6.   The classification, as defined in this article, of sexually oriented
business for which the applicant is seeking a permit.
      7.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s)
currently in service.
      8.   The applicant's address.
      9.   A recent photograph of the applicant.
      10.   The applicant's driver's license number or permit number or
identification number and social security number and/or the applicant's state
or federally issued tax identification number.
      11.   A clearly legible sketch or diagram showing the configuration of
the premises and all improvements to the site including, parking, landscaping,
sign configuration and location and outdoor lighting, including a statement of
total floor space and its purpose, occupied by the business. The sketch or
diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
      12.   A radius map prepared within thirty (30) days prior to application
depicting the building and the portion thereof to be occupied by the sexually
oriented business, and: a) the property lines of any other sexually oriented
business within six hundred feet (600') of the property line of the sexually
oriented businesses for which a permit is requested; and b) the property lines
of any sensitive use within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property line of
the sexually oriented business for which a permit is requested.
      13.   A diagram of the off street parking areas and premises entries of
the sexually oriented business showing the location of the lighting system
required pursuant to this article.
      14.   Each individual listed on the application pursuant to subsection C1
of this section, excluding any agent for service of process who is not also
listed as a director or officer, shall sign the application. If the applicant
is a corporation, its authorized representative may sign the application on
behalf of the corporation upon submission of proof of such authorization.
      15.   The applicant's fingerprint on a form approved by the city's police
department.
   D.   The applicant shall be required to pay a nonrefundable application fee
as set forth by resolution at the time of filing an application pursuant to
this article. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-46: CONTINUING PERMIT OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him/her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit.
   B.   By applying for a permit under this article, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this article and to the exercise
by the city or its designee, the police chief's office, and all other city
departments charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances and codes applicable in
the city, of their respective responsibilities under this article.
   C.   An operator shall promptly update, correct or supplement the
information contained in the application for a sexually oriented business
permit on file with the city as necessary to keep the information contained
therein accurate. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-47: FILING OF COMPLETED APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the city and upon
payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the city or its designee shall
immediately stamp the application as received on that date.
   B.   If the city designee determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, or otherwise deems the application to be incomplete,
the city designee shall, within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the original
application, notify the applicant of such fact and, on request of the
applicant, grant the applicant an extension of time, twenty (20) days or less,
to submit a complete application. In addition, the applicant may request an
extension, not to exceed fifteen (15) days, of the time for the city designee
to act on the application. The time period for granting or denying a permit
shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an
extension of time. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-48: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Within thirty (30) business days of receipt of a completed application, the
city shall issue a sexually oriented business permit, which will be deemed to
have been approved as of the date the application was filed for the purpose of
determining the proper location of the business, upon verification of the
following facts:
   A.   The location of the business complies with all applicable zoning laws.
   B.   The configuration of the premises, as set out in the sketch or plan
submitted with the application, does not reveal any violation of applicable
health, zoning, fire and safety laws of the state of California and ordinances
of the city of Porterville applicable thereto, including those set out in this
article.
   C.   The applicants or individuals identified therein, excluding any agent
for service of process who is not also listed as a director or officer, are not
otherwise disqualified from lawful operation of a sexually oriented business
pursuant to any state, county, federal or local law, including those set out in
this article.
   D.   The applicant is eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   E.   The applicant has provided all information required by this article,
none of which is known to the city to be incorrect.
   F.   The application or permit fees required by this article have been paid.
   G.   Applicant has no prior conviction of sexually related convictions
listed in subsection 15-40A of this article. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-49: PROCESSING COMPLETED APPLICATION:
The city, or its designee, shall grant or deny a completed application for a
permit within thirty (30) business days from the date of receipt by the city of
a complete application. Upon the expiration of the thirtieth day, unless the
city or its designee has given written notice to the applicant, the application
shall be deemed granted and the operator shall be excused from the requirement
that a duly issued permit be posted at the premises until such time as said
permit is issued pursuant to this section. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-50: NOTIFICATION OF PERMIT DENIAL; SUBSEQUENT APPLICATION:
If the city or its designee denies the application, he/she shall notify the
applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the denial. Any subsequent
application which has been supplemented to cure the grounds for prior denial
shall be treated as a new application. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-51: ANNUAL PERMIT FEE:
   A.   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is set forth by
resolution, to partially offset the costs of monitoring and policing the
operation of the business entities involved.
   B.   The city council hereby determines that the actual cost of monitoring
and policing each such business is at least that amount.
   C.   Said fee shall be due yearly on the anniversary of the issuance of the
permit and shall be deemed delinquent thirty (30) days thereafter. (Ord. 1600 §
1, 5-1-2001)
15-52: INSPECTION:
Every operator shall permit representatives of the city and/or police, fire or
health departments to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or
open for business. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-53: ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REVIEW OR PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR
REVOCATION:
   A.   Administrative Appeal To City Council: After denial of an application
or suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
prompt review of such administrative action through the city council by filing
a written appeal within ten (10) calendar days of the action. The council shall
promptly set an administrative hearing in accordance with the provisions of
section
15-13 of this chapter.
   B.   Expedited Review Of Free Speech Claims: An administrative appeal shall
be heard and decided at the next regularly scheduled city council meeting when
the written request for an administrative appeal alleges that the
administrative action constitutes a violation of the applicant or permittee's
state or federal constitutional rights to free speech, press or expression. If
affirmed by the city council, the administrative action is subject to prompt
review by the superior court for the state of California, in and for the county
of Tulare, pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.8.
Additionally, the applicant or permittee may seek a temporary or preliminary
injunction, stay of the administrative action pending judicial review and/or a
permanent injunction or declaratory relief. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-54: TRANSFER OF PERMIT:
   A.   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   B.   A permittee shall not transfer his/her permit to another person unless
and until such other person satisfies the following requirements:
      1.   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the city or its designee,
which provides that he/she is now the permittee, which amendment may be
obtained only if he/she has completed and properly filed an application with
the city or its designee, setting forth the information called for under
subsection
15-45C of this article in the application; and
      2.   Pays a transfer fee of fifty percent (50%) of the annual permit fee
set by resolution.
   C.   No permit may be transferred during the pendency of administrative
procedures following notice by the city or its designee to the permittee that
suspension or revocation proceedings have been or will be brought against the
permittee, until such proceedings have been completed, withdrawn or otherwise
canceled.
   D.   Permittee shall not transfer a permit whether directly or indirectly in
violation of this section. Such a transfer is hereby declared void, and the
permit shall be considered abandoned and shall automatically revert to the
city. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-55: REGISTRATION OF NEW EMPLOYEES/INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS:
   A.   As a further condition of approval of every sexually oriented business
permit issued pursuant to this article, every owner or operator shall register
every employee or independent contractor working on its premises with the
police department within five (5) business days of the commencement of the
employee's period of employment at the sexually oriented business.
   B.   Each employee/independent contractor shall be required to provide two
(2) recent color passport quality photographs and shall allow himself or
herself to be fingerprinted by the police department for purposes of
identification. In addition, each new employee/independent contractor shall
provide the following information on a form provided by the police department:
      1.   Name, current resident address, telephone number.
      2.   Date of birth.
      3.   Social security number.
      4.   Height, weight, color of eyes and hair.
      5.   Stage name (if applicable) and other aliases used within the
previous two (2) years.
   C.   The information provided for purposes of this section shall be
maintained by the police department as confidential information and shall not
be disclosed as public records unless pursuant to an order issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Each owner or operator of a sexually oriented business shall maintain a
current register of names of all employees and independent contractors
currently employed by or working at the sexually oriented business, and shall
disclose such registration for inspection by any designated city representative
for purposes of determining compliance with this section.
   E.   Failure to register each new employee/independent contractor within
five (5) days of commencement of employment, or to maintain a current register
of the names of all employees, shall be deemed a violation of the conditions of
the permit and may be considered grounds for suspension or revocation of the
permit. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-56: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
In addition to any licenses or permits required by this article, sexually
oriented businesses shall secure a semiannual business license as prescribed by
section
15-23 of this chapter. Such licenses shall be calculated based on gross
receipts. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-57: BUSINESS OPERATIONS:
   A.   Visibility:
      1.   The entire interior of an adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, adult cabaret, adult video arcade, adult model studio, and any
nonconforming sexual encounter establishment and the entire concession area of
an adult motion picture theater or adult theater, the entire common areas of an
adult motel, and the entire exhibition area of an adult motion picture theater
or adult theater, shall be visible upon entrance to such areas.
      2.   Visibility from the entrance shall not be obstructed by any curtain,
door, wall, merchandise rack, or any other thing.
      3.   No partially or fully enclosed booths or partially or fully
concealed booths shall be maintained within the sexually oriented business.
      4.   No patrons shall be permitted access to any area of the premises not
visible from the entrance.
      5.   Customers, patrons or visitors of adult arcades shall be prohibited
from standing idly by in the vicinity of any such video booths, or from
remaining in the common area of such business, other than the restrooms, who
are not actively engaged in shopping for or reviewing the products available on
display for purchaser viewing. Signs prohibiting loitering shall be posted in
prominent places in and near the video booths.
      6.   All areas of the sexually oriented business shall be illuminated at
a minimum of the following foot-candles, minimally maintained and evenly
distributed at ground level:
 
Area                        Foot-Candles
Arcades                        10
Bookstores and other retail    20
establishments
                            5 (except during performances, at which
Theaters and cabarets       times lighting shall be at least 1.25
                            foot- candles)
 
      7.   All off street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. The required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
      8.   The building entrance to a sexually oriented business shall be
clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that persons under eighteen
(18) years of age are precluded from entering the premises. Said notice shall
consist of letters no less than one inch (1") in height. No person under the
age of eighteen (18) years shall be permitted within the premises at any time.
      9.   The building entrance to a sexually oriented business shall be
clearly and legibly posted with a notice indicating that no alcoholic beverages
are permitted on the premises.
   B.   Exceptions To Visibility Requirements:
      1.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to those areas of a
sexually oriented business to which only employees are permitted access and
patrons are excluded and which cannot be viewed from any area accessible to
patrons.
      2.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to a restroom; however,
no restroom shall contain any merchandise, materials, product, or service
referenced in section
15-43 of this article.
   C.   Private Viewing Booths Or Rooms:
      1.   No viewing room or booth of an adult arcade or adult video arcade
may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
      2.   The walls or partitions between viewing rooms or booths shall be
maintained in good repair at all times, with no holes between any two (2) such
rooms such as would allow viewing from one booth into another or such as to
allow physical contact of any kind between the occupants of any two (2) such
booths or rooms.
      3.   The floors, seats, walls and other interior portions of all viewing
rooms or booths shall be maintained clean and free from waste and bodily
secretions.
   D.   Business Hours: A sexually oriented business shall be open for business
only between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on any particular day to two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. the next morning.
   E.   Posting Permit: A valid sexually oriented business permit duly issued
pursuant to this article shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it can be easily read at all
times.
   F.   Manager On Duty:
      1.   There shall be a responsible person on the premises to act as
manager at all times during which the business is open.
      2.   At all times that any patron is present inside the premises, at
least one manager shall be situated at a location within the premises so as to
allow her/him an unobstructed view of the entire area accessible to patrons.
Within those sexually oriented businesses lawfully configured to include more
than one open room accessible to patrons, such as an adult theater with both a
concession area and an exhibition area, or various common areas of an adult
motel, sufficient additional managers shall be present as necessary to allow
management personnel to maintain an unobstructed view of all areas accessible
to patrons, at all times.
      3.   Every permittee shall ensure that all employees are familiar with
the provisions of this article as amended from time to time and with all other
regulations adopted by the city related to sexually oriented businesses.
   G.   Required Physical Modification To Premises:
      1.   An operator of a sexually oriented business shall be permitted a
reasonable period of time to make modifications to the business premises if
such modifications are made necessary by the implementation of the provisions
of this article.
      2.   The reasonable period of time shall normally be thirty (30) days
from the effective date hereof to file the appropriate plans and designs with
the city, and up to ninety (90) days thereafter for completion of the
modifications.
      3.   Should modifications be so extensive as to reasonably require a
longer period of time, the city or its designee may grant a longer period of
time for completion of such modifications, in consultation with the city's
building officials.
   H.   Separate Restrooms: The sexually oriented business shall provide and
maintain separate restroom facilities for male patrons and employees, and
female patrons and employees. Male patrons and employees shall be prohibited
from using the restroom(s) for females, and female patrons and employees shall
be prohibited from using the restroom(s) for males, except to carry out duties
of repair, maintenance and cleaning of the restroom facilities. The restrooms
shall be free from any motion picture or video projection, recording or
reproduction equipment. The foregoing provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to a sexually oriented business which deals exclusively with sale or
rental of adult material which is not used or consumed on the premises, such as
an adult bookstore or adult video store, and which does not provide restroom
facilities to its patrons or the general public.
   I.   No Alcohol: No alcoholic beverages shall be served or consumed on the
premises of any sexually oriented business. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-58: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she operates or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or
not a permit has been issued for said business under this article, and
knowingly, or with the reasonable cause to know, permits, suffers, or allows:
   A.   Admittance of a person under eighteen (18) years of age to the business
premises;
   B.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to remain at the business
premises;
   C.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase goods or services
at the business premises; or
   D.   A person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to work at the
business premises in any capacity. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-59: DISPLAY REGULATIONS:
   A.   No display or exhibit depicting or describing specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas shall be placed in, on, or at the site
of the subject premises in such a manner as to be visible from the exterior of
the premises.
   B.   The building entrance to a sexually oriented business shall be clearly
and legibly posted with a notice indicating that persons under eighteen (18)
years of age are precluded from entering the premises. Said notice shall
consist of letters no less than one inch (1") in height.
   C.   The building entrance to a sexually oriented business shall be clearly
and legibly posted with a notice indicting that no alcoholic beverages are to
be served or consumed on the premises. Said notice shall consist of letters no
less than one inch (1") in height.
   D.   The building entrance to a sexually oriented business shall be clearly
and legibly posted with a notice indicating business's hours of operation.
   E.   The view of the entrance to any sexually oriented business from outside
of the business shall be designed in a manner that obscures the view of the
interior of the premises from individuals outside the premises so as to
prohibit minors from viewing or seeing any material, conduct or activities
which depict, describe or display specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-60: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following additional requirements shall pertain to sexually oriented
businesses providing live entertainment depicting seminude persons, specified
anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities:
   A.   No person shall perform live entertainment for patrons of a sexually
oriented business except upon a stage at least eighteen inches (18") above the
level of the floor which is separated by a distance of at least ten feet (10')
from the nearest area occupied by patrons, and no patron shall be permitted
within ten feet (10') of the stage while the stage is occupied by an
entertainer. "Entertainer" shall mean any person who is an employee or
independent contractor of the sexually oriented business, or any person who
with or without any compensation or other form of consideration performs live
entertainment for patrons of a sexually oriented business.
   B.   The sexually oriented business shall provide separate dressing room
facilities for entertainers which are exclusively dedicated to the
entertainers' use.
   C.   The sexually oriented business shall provide an entrance/exit for
entertainers which is separate from the entrance/exit used by patrons.
   D.   The sexually oriented business shall provide access for entertainers
between the stage and dressing rooms which is completely separated from the
patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible, the sexually
oriented business shall provide a minimum three foot (3') wide walk aisle for
entertainers, between the dressing room area and the stage, with a railing,
fence or other barrier, separating the patrons and the entertainers, capable of
(and which actually results in) preventing any physical contact between patrons
and entertainers.
   E.   No entertainer, either before, during or after performance, shall have
physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact with
any entertainer either before, during or after performances by such
entertainer. This subsection shall only apply to physical contact on the
premises of the sexually oriented business.
   F.   Fixed rail(s) at least thirty inches (30") in height shall be
maintained establishing the separations between entertainers and patrons
required by this subsection.
   G.   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any entertainer
and no entertainer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
   H.   No owner or other person with managerial control over a sexually
oriented business (as that term is defined herein) shall permit any person on
the premises of the sexually oriented business to engage in a live showing of
the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a
fully opaque coverage and/or the female breast with less than a fully opaque
coverage over any part of the areola.
   I.   Sexually oriented businesses featuring live entertainment shall provide
at least one security guard at all times while the business is open. If the
occupancy limit of the premises is greater than thirty five (35) persons, an
additional security guard shall be on duty. Additional security guards may be
required if the occupancy limit of the premises is greater than seventy (70)
persons. Security guard(s) shall be charged with preventing the violations of
law and enforcing compliance by patrons of the requirements of these
regulations. Security guards shall be uniformed in such a manner so as to be
readily identifiable as a security guard by the public and shall be duly
licensed as a security guard as required pursuant to this subsection and shall
not act as a door person, ticket seller, ticket taker, admittance person, or
sole occupant of the manager's station while acting as a security guard.
   J.   The foregoing applicable requirements of this section shall be deemed
conditions of sexually oriented business regulatory permit approvals, and
failure to comply with every such requirement shall be grounds for revocation
of the permit issued pursuant to these regulations.
   K.   Every permittee of a sexually oriented business which provides live
entertainment pursuant to this article must maintain a register of all persons
so performing on the premises. Such register shall be available for inspection
during the regular business hours by any designee of the city of Porterville.
(Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-61: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this article that a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation; or
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
not other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing,
and
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class, and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution of a violation of this article that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this article, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee's bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee's bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-
2001)
15-62: CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND ADDITIONAL LEGAL, EQUITABLE, AND INJUNCTIVE
RELIEF:
   A.   If any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or violates any
of the provisions of this article, such person, upon conviction of such
offense, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty
(60) days in the jail, or both, in the discretion of the court. Each violation
or noncompliance shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. Further,
each day of continued violation or noncompliance shall be considered as a
separate offense.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the city from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation or
noncompliance.
Such other lawful actions shall include, but shall not be limited to, a
nuisance abatement proceeding pursuant to chapter 21, section 614.03 of this
code, a civil nuisance abatement of equitable action for injunctive relief or
an action at law for damages in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   All remedies and penalties provided for in this article shall be
cumulative and independently available to the city, and the city shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law.
   D.   The city shall be entitled to recover all attorney fees and costs
incurred in the filing or prosecution of any action or administrative
proceeding brought to enforce any provision(s) of this article. (Ord. 1600 § 1,
5-1-2001)
15-63: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   After an investigation, notice and hearing, the city manager or his
designee shall suspend or revoke an existing permit, or impose such conditions
upon the retention of the permit as shall be found to be necessary to assure
the preservation of the public health and safety, if the evidence presented
established that one of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The building, structure, equipment, location, or manner of operation
of such business does not comply with the requirements of, or fails to meet the
standards of, the health, zoning, fire and safety laws of the state of
California and ordinances of the city of Porterville applicable to such
business operations.
      2.   The permittee, his or her employee, agent, partner, director,
officer, stockholder or manager has knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statements of material fact in the application for a sexually
oriented business permit, or in any report or record to be filed with the city
pertaining to the permit for the sexually oriented business, or has violated
any rule or regulation duly adopted by the city relating to sexually oriented
businesses, including those set out in this article.
      3.   A court of competent jurisdiction has found that the permittee, his
or her employee, agent, partner, director, manager, or stockholder has
knowingly engaged in or allowed or permitted to be committed any unlawful act
of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or distribution
of obscenity, on or in the subject premises.
      4.   A court of competent jurisdiction has found that the permittee, his
or her employee, agent, partner, director, manager, or stockholder has
knowingly engaged in or permitted or allowed to occur unlawful solicitations
for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or distribution
of obscenity, on or in the subject premises.
      5.   A court of competent jurisdiction has found that the permittee, his
or her employee, agent, partner, director, manager, or stockholder has
knowingly engaged in or permitted or allowed, in or on the premises, the
unlawful possession, use or sale of a controlled substance, as defined by the
California uniform controlled substances act, California Health and Safety Code
section 11000 et seq., as amended from time to time.
      6.   More than thirty (30) days have elapsed since a tax, fee, fine, any
form of regulatory assessment or judgment for monetary damages, irrespective of
any other form of relief set out in the judgment, which is to be paid to the
city has been imposed against a sexually oriented business, and said sum
remains owing.
   B.   In the event that a permit for a sexually oriented business is revoked
pursuant to any applicable law, the premises shall be closed and shall not be
used as a sexually oriented business of any classification for a period of one
year commencing on the date of revocation. Further, the operators of the
sexually oriented business closed due to suspension or revocation of a permit
shall be disqualified from operating any other sexually oriented business
established thereafter within the city during the entire period of any such
suspension, or for one year if the license was revoked. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-
2001)
15-64: IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION:
The city and its designee, the chief of police's office and all other
departments and agencies, and all other city officers, agents and employees
charged with enforcement of state and local laws and codes shall be immune from
prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon a
sexually oriented business while acting within the scope of authority conferred
by this article. (Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
15-65: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase
in this article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this article or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause, or phrase in this article or any part thereof irrespective of
the fact that any one or more subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid, or ineffective.
(Ord. 1600 § 1, 5-1-2001)
ARTICLE VI. CHARITABLE CAR WASH PERMIT PROCEDURE
SECTION:
15-70: Definitions
15-71: Permit Required For Charitable Car Wash
15-72: Application For Permit
15-73: Issuance And Form Of Permit
15-74: Term Of Permit
15-75: Nontransferability Of Permit
15-76: Manner Of Car Wash
15-77: Fundraising As A Business
15-78: Revocation Of Permit
15-79: Violations
15-80: Car Washing As A Business
15-70: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
   APPLICANT: A member of a charitable organization who applies for a car wash
permit on behalf of the charitable organization.
   CHARITABLE: Benevolent, civil, religious, educational, fraternal, patriotic,
political, philanthropic or other similar purposes.
   CHARITABLE CAR WASH: A temporary vehicle washing operation conducted by
members of a charitable organization for organization fundraising purposes. It
shall not be deemed to include the operation of an authorized permanent vehicle
washing business or service station authorized to wash vehicles on its
premises, although a car wash, as defined above, may be conducted on such
premises.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Means and includes an organization which is a duly
organized governmental or not for profit charitable, religious, civic,
patriotic or community service organization; and the organization must have a
tax exempt identification number assigned to it.
   PERMIT HOLDER: The charitable organization who has been granted a permit
pursuant to this article for the purpose of conducting a charitable car wash.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, society, organization, church, congregation, assembly or league,
and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, agent or other similar
representative thereof.
   RELIGIOUS OR RELIGION: Has the meaning established by the supreme court of
the state or the supreme court of the United States.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: A building designed for or occupied by one or more
families as a residence including single-family residences, duplexes and
apartments. (Ord. 1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
15-71: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CHARITABLE CAR WASH:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage, directly or indirectly, in a
charitable car wash without first obtaining a valid charitable car wash permit
pursuant to the provisions of this article.
   B.   The permit application shall include a written application to sponsor
the charitable car wash by the owner or lessee of the property upon which the
car wash is to be held.
   C.   The car wash permit issued under this article to a charitable
organization must be prominently displayed at the location where the car wash
is conducted and shall be removed at the completion of the car wash. (Ord. 1669
§ 1, 6-21-2005)
15-72: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Applications for charitable car wash permits shall be made to the
finance department upon forms prescribed by the city. The application shall be
declared under penalty of perjury and filed with the finance department not
less than five (5) consecutive business days prior to the time at which the
applicant wishes to conduct said car wash.
   B.   A nonrefundable application fee an amount to be set by resolution shall
be paid by the applicant. The application fee shall be based solely upon the
administrative costs in processing the application and issuing the permits.
   C.   Such applications shall contain the following information and
documentation:
      1.   The full name, mailing address, principal business and telephone
number of the charitable organization or institution, the names and addresses
of the organization's or institution's principal officers and executives, and
the address of the national, state and local headquarters, if any.
      2.   The name and address of the sponsor, with a statement by the sponsor
that he/she is the owner or lessee of the property where the car wash is to be
held or is an employee or agent of the owner or lessee who has been delegated
control of the premises by the owner or lessee, and that the sponsor assumes
all liability regarding the car wash.
      3.   The full name and address of the person or persons who will be in
charge of conducting the car wash. The names and addresses of each individual
who will actually be engaged in the car wash shall be on file at the agency/
organization conducting the car wash and shall be made available to the city
police department upon request at any time.
      4.   The time when such car wash will be held, including preferred date
and hours of the day for commencement and termination of the car wash.
      5.   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement of the charitable
organization by the city or any department or officer thereof.
      6.   Proof evidencing that the permit holder is a bona fide charitable
organization.
      7.   The number of car washes that have been held by the charitable
organization in that particular calendar year, and the number of car washes
that have been held at that particular location in that particular calendar
year.
      8.   Such supplemental information requested by the finance department as
the finance department may require. The finance department may require that
such information be updated during the time the permit is in force if changes
occur subsequent to filing of the application in the planned dates and
locations for the charitable car wash.
   D.   If, while the application is pending or during the term of any permit
granted, there is a change in fact, policy or method that would alter the
information to be given on the application, the applicant shall notify the
finance director in writing thereof prior to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. the day
before such change.
   E.   The application documents shall be available for public inspection.
(Ord. 1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
15-73: ISSUANCE AND FORM OF PERMIT:
   A.   The finance department shall issue the permit, unless it finds that:
      1.   Any statement made in the application is factually incorrect, and
the applicant fails to correct the application after being requested to do so.
      2.   The applicant has not provided the information required by this
article and fails to provide the missing information after being requested to
do so.
      3.   The application indicates that the proposed car wash will violate
any of the requirements of this article and the applicant fails to amend the
application to indicate compliance with said section after being requested to
do so.
      4.   The number of charitable car washes by the charitable organization
applying for said permit exceeds four (4) in a calendar year, or the number of
charitable car washes held at a particular location exceeds four (4) per
calendar year. The location requirement shall not pertain to licensed
commercial car washes.
      5.   The applicant has violated any of the provisions of this article
within one year of the date the application is submitted, resulting in the
imposition of a fine or the revocation of a prior permit.
   B.   Nothing set forth in this article shall be construed as granting to the
finance department or any other person the authority to grant, deny, suspend,
revoke or renew any permit by reason of disapproval or agreement with the
philosophy, opinion or belief of the applicant, permit holder or person
soliciting therefor, or for any other reason not specifically provided for in
this article.
   C.   The finance department shall either issue or deny the requested permit
within two (2) consecutive business days after the date the application is
made. In the event of denial, the finance department shall give the applicant a
written notice which states with specificity the reasons therefor. In the event
the finance department fails to act within the time prescribed, the permit
shall be deemed issued.
   D.   The permit, if issued, shall include the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the permit holder;
      2.   The date for which the permit is valid;
      3.   A statement that the permit does not constitute an endorsement by
the city, or any of its departments, officers or employees, of the purpose of
the car wash;
      4.   A permit number; and
      5.   The signature of the finance director or his/her designee. (Ord.
1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
15-74: TERM OF PERMIT:
Permits issued under this article shall be valid only for the date specified in
the application for the car wash and as stated on the permit. (Ord. 1669 § 1,
6-21-2005)
15-75: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT:
No permit issued under this article shall be transferred or assigned, and any
attempt at assignment or transfer shall be void. (Ord. 1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
15-76: MANNER OF CAR WASH:
   A.   Car washes held pursuant to permits under this article:
      1.   Shall take place between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      2.   Shall be conducted for a one day period only.
      3.   Shall not be conducted by any person under the age of sixteen (16)
years, unless supervised by an adult.
      4.   Shall not be conducted at any house, apartment or other dwelling nor
an area zoned for residential use only.
      5.   Shall be conducted in an area zoned for commercial uses; and such
location shall have a means of collecting the wash water and shall discharge
the water to the city sewer collection system.
      6.   Shall use biodegradable soaps or detergents, and shall not violate
any of the provisions of chapter 25 of this code, concerning wastewater
discharge requirements.
      7.   Shall have a means in place to limit wastewater or runoff such as
pistol grip nozzle or similar apparatus affixed to each garden hose or water
source.
      8.   Shall not allow any person to solicit cars or other contributions
from a position in or on any public right of way, including, but not limited
to, sidewalks, traffic islands, driveways or the like as to endanger that
individual or others.
      9.   Shall not be conducted at any commercial property which has held
four (4) prior car washes in the calendar year (excluding licensed commercial
car wash locations).
      10.   Shall take place at a distance of more than twenty five feet (25')
from the street curb, or from the near edge of the travel lane or lanes of any
uncurbed street or road.
      11.   Shall utilize temporary signs, if any signs are utilized, in
compliance with the city's applicable regulations concerning temporary signs.
      12.   Shall not be conducted by a charitable organization which has held
four (4) prior car washes in the calendar year. Four (4) applications per tax
exempt identification number, and four (4) permits per tax exempt
identification number, will be allowed in the calendar year.
   B.   It is unlawful for a "permit holder", as defined herein, to:
      1.   Refuse to provide their name and a copy of the permit issued under
this article, if requested by city representatives.
      2.   Misrepresent their identity or the identity of the charitable
organization conducting the charitable car wash for which he or she is an
agent.
      3.   Misrepresent that the charitable car wash permit issued under this
article is an endorsement by the city, or any department or employee thereof,
of the charitable car wash. (Ord. 1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
15-77: FUNDRAISING AS A BUSINESS:
An organization in the business of fundraising (seeking a profit and paying its
solicitors), even if engaged by a nonprofit organization, must comply with this
article. If such an organization is soliciting on behalf of a nonprofit
organization, the nonprofit organization shall obtain a permit pursuant to this
article. (Ord. 1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
15-78: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any violation of this article by applicant or permit holder shall be cause for
revocation of a permit issued pursuant to this article. Upon determination by
an authorized representative of the city that a car wash is being conducted
without a valid permit or in violation of the requirements of this article,
said unlawful activity shall cease immediately, and all persons associated with
said car wash shall be dispersed within one hour after the giving of said
notice. Failure or refusal by the charitable organization and/or the owner/
sponsor to cause a car wash in violation of these regulations to cease
operations, after receiving such notification from the city official, shall
constitute a separate violation of this article. Furthermore, any organization
that violates this article shall be ineligible for the issuance of a permit for
a period of one year. (Ord. 1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
15-79: VIOLATIONS:
Every person who, for himself or herself, or as the agent of another,
commences, engages in or conducts a car wash as provided in this article
without procuring the permit as required under this article or who fails to
comply with the conditions of this article shall be guilty of an infraction
punishable by:
   A.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation;
   B.   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation within one year; and
   C.   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional
violation within one year. (Ord. 1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
15-80: CAR WASHING AS A BUSINESS:
This article is expressly limited to charitable car washes. Any person,
corporation, business or other entity who wishes to hold impromptu or temporary
car washes on a for profit basis must comply with all city, county and state
licensing or permitting requirements and does not fall within this article.
(Ord. 1669 § 1, 6-21-2005)
ARTICLE VII. CANNABIS DISPENSARIES
SECTION:
15-85: Definitions
15-86: Cannabis Dispensaries Permitted Uses And Zoning
15-87: Cannabis Dispensaries Requirements And Restrictions
15-88: Regulatory Permit Required
15-89: Employee Permit Required
15-90: Application Fees
15-91: Investigation
15-92: Term Of Permits And Renewals
15-93: Grounds For Denial Of Regulatory Permit
15-94: Grounds For Denial Of Employee Permit
15-95: Notice Of Decision And Final Action
15-96: Suspension And Revocation Of Regulatory Permit Or Employee Permit
15-97: Effect Of Denial Or Revocation
15-98: Abandonment
15-99: Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes Or Charges
15-100: Violation Deemed Misdemeanor And Other Remedies
15-101: Actions To Collect
15-102: Severability
15-103: Remedies Cumulative
15-104: Amendment Or Repeal
15-105: Penalties
15-85: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are applicable to the terms when used in chapter 15,
18, or 21 of this Code, concerning regulations pertaining to cannabis uses,
activities and operations.
   APPLICANT: Means a person who is required to file an application for a
permit under this article.
   BUSINESS OWNER: Means the owner(s) of the cannabis business. For publicly
traded companies, owner means the chief executive officer or any person or
entity with an aggregate ownership interest of five percent (5%) or more. For
all other businesses, other than publicly traded companies, an owner is an
individual that has an aggregate ownership of interest other than a lien or
encumbrance, of twenty percent (20%) or more in the commercial cannabis
business.
   CANNABIS: Means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis
indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, or any other strain or varietal of the genus
Cannabis that may exist or hereafter be discovered or developed that has
psychoactive or medicinal properties; whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. "Cannabis" also means the
separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. "Cannabis"
does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks
(except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purposes of this
Code, "cannabis" does not mean "industrial hemp" as defined by section 11018.5
of the Health and Safety Code.
   CANNABIS ACCESSORIES: Means any equipment, products, or materials of any
kind which is intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, smoking, vaporizing, or containing cannabis, or for ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis or cannabis products into the human
body. "Cannabis accessories" also has the same meaning as in section 11018.2 of
the Health and Safety Code.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS OR CANNABIS INDUSTRY: Means any business activity in the
City relating to cannabis, including but not limited to cultivation (including
nurseries), transportation, distribution, manufacture, compounding, conversion,
processing, preparation, testing, storage, packaging, delivery and sales
(wholesale and/or retail sales) of cannabis or cannabis products, whether or
not carried on for gain or profit. A cannabis business does not include any
business whose only relationship to cannabis or cannabis products is the
production or sale of cannabis accessories.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY OR DISPENSARY: Means a facility where cannabis or
cannabis products, are offered, either individually or in combination, for
retail sale, including an establishment that engages in delivery of cannabis or
cannabis products as part of a retail sale. In addition, and without limiting
the foregoing, "dispensary" includes "dispensary" as defined in California
Business and Professions Code division 10 and any successor statute(s), as may
be adopted or amended from time to time. For the purposes of obtaining a City
permit and operating within the City, "cannabis dispensary" or "dispensary" is
limited to storefront cannabis retailers.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT: Means any product containing cannabis, including, but not
limited to, flowers, buds, oils, tinctures, concentrates, extractions, edibles
and those products described in section 11018.1 of the Health and Safety Code.
   CITY: Means the City of Porterville, either the entity or its territorial
limits, as the context requires.
   CITY COUNCIL OR COUNCIL: Means the City Council of the City of Porterville.
   COLLECTOR: Means the City's Financial Director or his or her designee.
   COMMERCIAL CANNABIS BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY, OR CANNABIS
BUSINESS OR CANNABIS OPERATION: Means any commercial marijuana activity allowed
under State law and the implementing regulations, as State law and the
implementing regulations may be amended from time to time, and all uses
permitted under any subsequently enacted State law pertaining to the same or
similar uses for recreational cannabis, including the cultivation, possession,
manufacture, distribution, processing, storing, laboratory testing, packaging,
labeling, transportation, delivery or sale of cannabis and cannabis product for
medical, non- medical, or any other purpose and includes the activities of any
business licensed by the State or other government entity under division 10 of
the California Business and Professions Code, or any provision of State law
regulating the licensing of cannabis businesses. It also includes cannabis
dispensaries, cooperatives or collectives.
   COMMERCIAL CANNABIS REGULATORY PERMIT OR REGULATORY PERMIT: Means the permit
required under this article to have a cannabis business.
   CONCENTRATED CANNABIS: Means manufactured cannabis that has undergone a
process to concentrate one or more active cannabinoids, thereby increasing the
product's potency. Resin from granular trichomes from a cannabis plant is a
concentrate.
   DELIVERY: Means the commercial transfer of cannabis or cannabis products to
a customer. "Delivery" also includes the use by a retailer of any technology
platform owned and controlled by the retailer, or independently licensed under
this article that enables customers to arrange for or facilitate the commercial
transfer by a licensed retailer of marijuana or marijuana products.
   DELIVERY EMPLOYEE: Means an individual employed by a licensed dispensary who
delivers cannabis goods from the licensed dispensary premises to a physical
address.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: Means an agreement entered into between the City and
the business owner and any other responsible parties as required by the City,
in accordance with chapter 21, series 600, article 609 of this Code.
   DISTRIBUTION: Means the procurement, sale, and transport of cannabis or
cannabis products between licensees.
   DISTRIBUTOR: Means a person engaged in procuring cannabis from a cultivator,
and/or procuring cannabis products from a manufacturer, for sale to a licensed
commercial cannabis business. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing,
"distributor" includes "distributor" as defined in California Business and
Professions Code division 10 and any successor statute, as may be adopted or
amended from time to time.
   EMPLOYEE: Means each and every person engaged in the operation or conduct of
any cannabis business, whether as owner, member of the owner's family, partner,
associate, agent, manager or solicitor, and each and every other person
employed or working in such cannabis business for a wage, salary, commission,
barter or any other form of compensation.
   GROSS RECEIPTS: Means the amount a cannabis operation received from all
sources during its accounting period, without subtracting any costs or
expenses.
   MAUCRSA: Means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety
Act as codified in division 10 of the California Business and Professions Code,
as the same may be amended from time to time.
   MANUFACTURE: Means to compound, blend, extract, infuse or otherwise make or
prepare a cannabis product.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY: Means a storefront cannabis dispensary with a
valid M-type 10 retailer license in accordance with MAUCRSA.
   OPERATOR: Means the business owner and any other person designated by the
business owner as responsible for the day to day cannabis business operation.
   PREMISES: Means the designated structure or structures and land specified in
the application that is owned, leased, or otherwise held under the control of
the applicant or licensee where the commercial cannabis activity will be or is
conducted. The premises shall be a contiguous area and shall only be occupied
by one licensee.
   PROCESSING: Means any method used to prepare cannabis or its byproducts for
personal use or commercial retail and/or wholesale, including but not limited
to: drying, cleaning, curing, packaging, and extraction of active ingredients
to create cannabis related products and concentrates.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Shall mean the business owner, operator, manager(s), and
any employee having significant control over the cannabis businesses
operations.
   STATE: Means the State of California.
   STATE LAW: Means all regulations and laws pertaining to cannabis business in
the State of California.
   STATE LICENSE: Means a State license issued pursuant to California Business
and Professions Code section 26000, et seq., or other applicable State law.
   TRANSPORT OR TRANSPORTATION: Means the transfer of cannabis or cannabis
products from the permitted business location of one licensee to the permitted
business location of another licensee, for the purposes of conducting
commercial cannabis activity authorized pursuant to this article. (Ord. 1853,
5-7-2019)
15-86: CANNABIS DISPENSARIES PERMITTED USES AND ZONING:
Business owners meeting the requirements of this article shall be allowed to
conduct storefront cannabis dispensary operations in the zone districts and
locations as specified in chapter 21 of this Code, upon obtaining a regulatory
permit from the City, obtaining a business license from the City, obtaining the
applicable license from the State of California, and entering a Development
Agreement with the City as specified further in this article. Non-storefront
cannabis retailers are not permitted within the City. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-87: CANNABIS DISPENSARIES REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Maximum Number of Permits. The number of regulatory permits for
dispensaries is limited to no more than two permits plus an additional permit
per every 25,000 residents. Said permits may be issued for medical (Type M) or
adult use (Type A) businesses as allowed by the State. However, the City
Council may, but is not required to, reserve one of the allowed permits for
exclusively a medical cannabis dispensary. No applications for regulatory
permits shall be accepted or considered for approval by the City until
authorized by the City Council, and shall only be accepted under the terms and
conditions specifically established by the City Council.
   B.   Regulatory Permit/Fees.
      1.   Regulatory Permit. No person or entity shall operate a Cannabis
Dispensary within the City of Porterville without first obtaining a Cannabis
Regulatory Permit from the City. The Regulatory Permit shall be site specific
and shall specifically identify the commercial cannabis activity that will be
allowed at that site. No commercial cannabis activity will be allowed unless
specifically identified in the Regulatory Permit.
      2.   Request for Proposals Processes. The City may conduct initial
request for proposals processes for regulatory permit applications (commercial
or medical), once it determines when dispensary regulatory permits shall become
available, and thereafter as such permits become available. Nothing in this
Chapter or Code shall be construed to create an obligation for the City to
conduct a request for proposals process for, or to create an obligation to
grant a permit to, any cannabis dispensary. The City Council may authorize the
initiation of the Request for Proposals Process at any time for any one or more
of the available permits, up to the maximum number permitted by this Article.
      3.   Medical Cannabis Dispensaries.
         a.   If, after one full year from the City’s first issuance of a
Request for Proposals solely for a Medical Cannabis Dispensary, no responses
are received within the prescribed time period for such responses, the City
Council may opt to allow the permit reserved for a medical dispensary to be
utilized for an adult-use dispensary, as otherwise permitted by this Chapter.
         b.   Any Medical Cannabis Dispensary established pursuant to this
Chapter must be in operation for a full year before it will be eligible to
apply for any transition to an adult-use dispensary (Type A), and any medical
cannabis dispensary applying for a transition shall be subject to all the
requirements of this Chapter, including applying for a new regulatory permit
and entering into a new development agreement.
      4.   Permit Availability at the Discretion of the City Council. The City
shall maintain complete discretion over whether any permit approvals are made,
how many permit approvals are made, when permits shall be issued, where the
uses may be located (subject to Chapter 21), the terms and conditions under
which any or all of the permits are issued, and the manner of permit approvals.
      5.   Fees. All related fees and charges associated with conducting a
request for proposals process, regulatory fee application process, and the
granting, administering, and enforcing of the regulatory permits, and any other
City costs related to the operations of a dispensary shall be established by
Resolution(s) of the City Council, which may be amended from time to time.
   C.   Development Agreement. No approval required by this Article shall be
given for any permit for a dispensary unless the City Council prior to or
concurrently with approves a Development Agreement, setting forth the terms and
conditions under which the commercial cannabis activity will operate in
addition to the requirements of this Article, all other local ordinances and
regulations, state law and such other terms and conditions that will protect
and promote the public health, safety and welfare. No use or operation under
any permit for a dispensary shall be allowed to begin until the development
agreement is effective.
   D.   State Law and Other State Laws. The cannabis dispensary shall at all
times be in compliance with State Law and the implementing regulations, as they
may be amended from time to time, as well as all required State license(s)
under State Law, and any other applicable State law. The Operator shall obtain
required licenses under State Law prior to opening for business, or if the
State is not ready to issue licenses under State Law prior to the time of
opening, within twelve (12) months of the State being ready to issue the
required license(s). Provided, however, that the Operator shall at all times be
in compliance with all other requirements of State Law and implementing
regulations, and any other applicable State law, regardless of the timing of
the issuance of a license under State Law. The Operator shall meet or exceed
the health and safety requirements of State Law in any operations relating to
recreational cannabis.
   E.   Register of Employees. The Operator shall maintain a current register
of the names of persons required to have Employee Permits. The register shall
be available to the Police Chief at all times immediately upon request. All
agents, officers, or other persons acting for or employed by a licensee shall
display a laminated identification badge issued by the licensee. The
identification badge shall, at a minimum, include the licensee’s “doing
business as” name and license number, the employee’s first and last name, and a
color photograph of the employee that shows the full front of the employee’s
face and that is at least 2 inches by 2 inches in size.
   F.   Labeling. All cannabis products offered to customers at a retail
location must provide testing and labeling at a minimum as required by State
law and in compliance with any additional City regulations and as they may be
amended.
   G.   Signage. All signage shall be subject to approval by the City of
Porterville and consistent with the City’s Signage Ordinances, and any other
policies or guidelines adopted by the City.
   H.   Alcoholic Beverages. Alcohol for personal consumption shall not be
provided, stored, kept, located, sold, dispensed, or used on the Premises.
   I.   Transportation. Transportation shall only be conducted according to
activity permitted by State law.
   J.   Distribution. There shall be no distributions to the Premises of
cannabis or cannabis containing products except from properly licensed and
permitted cannabis businesses. City-licensed and permitted cannabis retailers
shall not distribute cannabis as a licensed distributor within the City.
   K.   Minors. It shall be unlawful for any Operator to employ any person who
is not at least twenty-one (21) years of age, or any older age if set by the
State.
   L.   Hours of Operation. Cannabis Dispensaries shall be allowed to operate
per the requirements of the underlying zone district and subject to the City’s
noise and nuisance ordinances but in no case shall exceed the minimum State
standards.
      Additionally, the City Council may set allowed hours of operation by
Resolution that are more restrictive, if it finds that the limitations are
appropriate to protect the public health, safety, peace or welfare.
   M.   Compliance with Building and Related Codes. The Premises in which the
Cannabis Dispensary operations occur shall comply with all applicable local,
State and federal laws, rules, and regulations including, but not limited to,
building codes and the Americans with Disabilities Act, as certified by the
Building Official of the City. The Operator shall obtain all required building
permits and comply with all applicable City standards.
   N.   Secure Building. All Cannabis Dispensary operations shall occur
entirely inside of a building (excluding any expressly authorized drive-through
facility) that shall be secure, locked, and fully enclosed, with a ceiling,
roof or top. The building shall include a burglar alarm monitored by an alarm
company or private security company. The building, including all walls, doors,
and the roof, shall be of solid construction meeting the minimum building code
requirements for commercial structures and include material strong enough to
prevent entry except through an open door. Any authorized drive- through
facilities shall be designed and operated with appropriate security features
and measures as approved by the City.
   O.   Premises Security. The following security conditions shall apply:
      1.   Alarm System (both perimeter, fire and panic). A licensee shall
maintain an alarm system as defined in Business and Professions Code section
7590.1(n). A licensee shall ensure a licensed alarm company operator or one or
more of its registered alarm agents installs, maintains, monitors, and responds
to the alarm system.
      2.   Remote monitoring of alarm systems.
      3.   Exterior lighting systems for after-hours security.
      4.   Exterior and interior camera systems approved by the Police Chief.
The camera systems shall meet the minimum requirements of State Law, include
interior monitoring of all access points of the site from the interior, and be
of a minimum 5 mega pixels in resolution. Cameras shall record continuously 24
hours per day and at a minimum of 20 frames per second. Areas monitored are
defined by State law.
      5.   All security systems at the site are attached to an uninterruptable
power supply that provide continuous power.
      6.   The Porterville Police Department or Department designee shall have
access to all security systems.
      7.   Subject to the provisions below regarding the use and handling of
Confidential Information, IP access for remote monitoring of security cameras
by the Porterville Police Department or Department designee.
      8.   Subject to the provisions below regarding the use and handling of
Confidential Information, any and all video or audio tape recordings made for
security or other purposes shall be marked with the date and time made and
shall be kept, in an unaltered state, for a period of thirty (30) days and must
be made available to the Porterville Police Department or Department designee
for duplication upon demand. In addition, upon request by the Porterville
Police Department the Responsible Party shall duplicate the records for the
Porterville Police Department or Department designee.
      9.   [Reserved].
      10.   Accounting software systems need to be in place to provide audit
trails of both product and cash, where applicable.
      11.   Electronic track and trace systems for cannabis products shall be
utilized as approved by the City and as required by State law.
      12.   Premises may be inspected and records of the Business Owner audited
by the City for compliance on a quarterly basis or at any reasonable time at
the City’s discretion.
      13.   State of the art network security protocols and equipment need to
be in place to protect computer information.
      14.   The foregoing requirements shall be approved by the Police Chief
prior to commencing operations. The Police Chief may supplement these security
requirements once operations begin, subject to review by the City Council if
requested by the Business Owner.
      15.   The City, Police Chief, Police Department employees, and any other
law enforcement official acting under the direction of the Police Chief who
access the Premises and video and/or audio feeds or recordings of the Premises
(“Recipients”) may receive or be provided with confidential information
relating to the Cannabis dispensary, which may include the following: data,
records, plans, and matters relating to customers, vendors, tenants,
agreements, and business records (collectively “Confidential Information”).To
the extent Confidential Information is acquired without a warrant for access to
the Premises and video and/or audio feeds or recordings as authorized under
this section, the Recipients shall, to the maximum extent possible, keep such
Confidential Information confidential and not disclose the Confidential
Information to any third parties. Provided, however, that the Recipients may
disclose Confidential Information to the State or Federal courts in California
in connection with any criminal law enforcement action against the Business
Owner or Operator, (including its employees, contractors and agents conducting
business within the Premises) arising from or related to the Cannabis
dispensary, but only to the extent it is necessary and relevant to such
criminal prosecution, and the Recipients shall file any such documents under
seal to the extent they contain any Confidential Information. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the City may disclose Confidential Information:
         a.   As may be required by the California Public Records Act or
pursuant to a civil subpoena, provided however, the City shall notify the
Operator and provide the Operator with a reasonable opportunity to obtain a
protective order before disclosing the Confidential Information.
         b.   In connection with any City enforcement proceeding relating to
compliance with City’s Municipal Code and this section, but only to the extent
the Confidential Information is relevant to the proceeding.
   P.   Delivery.
      1.   Unless otherwise (and only to the extent) required to be permitted
by State law, deliveries to customers from dispensaries located outside the
City are prohibited.
      2.   All deliveries of cannabis goods must be performed by a delivery
employee of a licensed dispensary. Each delivery employee of a licensed
dispensary shall be at least 21 years of age.
      3.   A licensed dispensary shall not use the services of an independent
contractor or courier service to deliver cannabis goods.
      4.   All deliveries of cannabis goods shall be made in person. A delivery
of cannabis goods shall not be made through the use of an unmanned vehicle.
      5.   A delivery employee begins the process of delivering when the
delivery employee leaves the dispensary premises with the cannabis goods for
delivery. The process of delivering ends when the delivery employee returns to
the licensed dispensary premises after delivering the cannabis goods to the
cannabis patients or primary caregivers.
      6.   A delivery employee of a licensed dispensary shall, during
deliveries, carry a copy of the dispensary’s current license, the employee’s
government-issued identification, and an employer provided badge containing a
picture and the name of the delivery employee.
      7.   A licensed dispensary shall maintain an accurate list of the
dispensary’s delivery employees.
   Q.   Deliveries of Supplies and Transportation of Product. The following
rules apply to the deliveries and transportation:
      1.   Deliveries to the Premises of supplies shall only occur as provided
for in the diagram and floor plan on file with the City as part of the
application process. Delivery vehicles shall not have any markings indicating
that deliveries are being made to a Cannabis Dispensary.
      2.   The transportation of cannabis samples and product to and from the
Premises shall be in unmarked vehicles with no indication that the vehicles are
transporting cannabis samples and products. The Responsible Party shall stagger
transportation times, vary routes from the facility, and take other security
measures as requested by the Police Chief.
   R.   Premises Maintenance. The Business Owner, Operator, and all Responsible
Parties shall continually maintain the Premises and its infrastructure so that
it is visually attractive and not dangerous to the health, safety and general
welfare of employees, patrons, surrounding properties, and the general public,
and in accordance with the conditions and site plan approved with the
Development Agreement. The Premises of the Cannabis Dispensary shall not be
maintained in a manner that causes a public or private nuisance.
   S.   In addition to any regulations, policies, or procedures authorized to
be adopted by the City in accordance with this Article or this Code, the City
Manager, or his or her designee, is authorized to establish any addition rules,
regulations, policies and standards governing the application review and
approval process, the issuance, denial or renewal of cannabis dispensary
regulatory permits, the ongoing operation of commercial cannabis dispensary
businesses and the City’s oversight of same; and/or concerning any other
subject determined to be necessary to carry out the intent and purposes of this
Article. Additional rules, regulations, policies and standards shall be
published to the City’s website and maintained and available to the public if
the Office of the City Clerk.
   T.   Indemnification and Limitations on City’s Liability.
      1.   To the fullest extent permitted by local, state, and/or federal law,
the City shall not assume any liability whatsoever with respect to having
issued a regulatory permit or executed a development agreement pursuant to this
Article, or otherwise approving the operation of any commercial cannabis
business.
      2.   As a condition to the approval of any regulatory permit and approval
of a development agreement, the applicant shall be required to execute an
agreement, in a form approved by the City Attorney, agreeing to indemnify,
defend at the applicant’s sole cost and expense, and hold harmless the City,
and its officers, officials, employees, representatives, and agents from any
against all claims, losses, damages, injuries, liabilities or losses which
arise out of, or which are in any way related to the City’s drafting, adoption
and passage of regulations, related resolutions, policies, rules and
guidelines, allowing cannabis dispensaries or in the future making any
regulatory amendments; the City’s issuance of the regulatory permit; the City’s
approval and execution of a development agreement; the City’s decision to
approve the operation of the dispensary; the process used by the City in making
the decision to issue, approve or deny a permit or a development agreement;
and/or the alleged violation of any federal, state or local laws by the
dispensary or any of its officers, employees or agents.
      3.   The dispensary shall maintain insurance at coverage limits and with
conditions thereon determined necessary and appropriate from time to time by
the City.
      4.   The dispensary shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses,
including but not limited to attorney fees and court costs, which the City may
be required to pay as a result of any legal challenge related to the City’s
approval of the applicant’s regulatory permit, or related to the City’s
approval of the applicant’s commercial cannabis activity, or the City’s
approval of a development agreement. The City may, at its sole discretion,
participate at its own expense in the defense of such action, but such
participation shall not relieve any of the obligations imposed hereunder.
      5.   The terms and provisions as enumerated in this section related to
indemnification and limitation on the City’s liability shall be an explicit
term of a regulatory permit and a development agreement that an applicant and
permittee shall agree to in order for same to be valid. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019;
amd. Ord. 1879, 2-16-2021; Ord. 1910, 6-3-2025)
15-88: REGULATORY PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Application For Permit: At the time authorized by the City,
applications for regulatory permits shall be filed by the proposed business
owner(s) with the City and include the information set forth herein. The City
may request such additional information as they deem necessary to determine who
the applicant is, and may adopt additional requirements as authorized in
subsection
15-87B of this article.
The applicant shall certify under penalty of perjury that all the information
contained in the application is true and correct. The application shall contain
the following items for the business owner, operator and all responsible
parties known at the time (if different than the business owner), and any other
party designated below, to the extent the same shall apply:
      1.   The full name, present address, and telephone number, including such
information to the premises owner.
      2.   Date of birth.
      3.   Tax identification number.
      4.   The address to which notices relating to the application are to be
mailed.
      5.   Previous addresses for the five (5) years immediately preceding the
present.
      6.   The height, weight, color of eyes and hair.
      7.   Photographs for identification purposes (photographs shall be taken
by the Police Department).
      8.   All business, occupation, or employment for the five (5) years
immediately preceding the date of submittal of the application form.
      9.   The cannabis operation business history, including whether the
business owner and responsible parties while previously operating in this or
another city, county or state has had a cannabis related license revoked or
suspended, the reason therefore, and the business or activity or occupation
subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation.
      10.   Complete property ownership and lease details, where applicable. If
the business owner is not the premises owner, the application form must be
accompanied with a notarized acknowledgment from the premises owner that
cannabis sales will occur on its property.
      11.   A descriptive business plan for the cannabis operation, including a
detailed list of all cannabis business activities proposed to occur on the
premises.
      12.   A diagram and floor plan of the entire premises, denoting all the
use of areas proposed for cannabis production, including, but not necessarily
limited to, cultivation, processing, manufacturing, testing, transportation,
deliveries, and storage. For cannabis dispensaries, the floor plan should show
the layout and design of the building. The diagram and floor plan need not be
professionally prepared, but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches (±6").
      13.   The name or names of the operator. The operator shall designate one
or more responsible parties, one of which shall at all times be available as a
point of contact for the City, twenty four (24) hours per day. The contact
information and schedule of the operator and responsible parties shall be
provided to the Police Chief and updated within twenty four (24) hours of any
changes.
      14.   The proposed security arrangements for insuring the safety of
persons and to protect the premises from theft.
      15.   An accurate straight-line drawing prepared within thirty (30) days
prior to the application depicting the building and the portion thereof to be
occupied by the cannabis operation and the property line of any school or any
other sensitive use as set forth in the operational requirements.
      16.   Authorization for the City, its agents and employees to seek
verification of the information submitted.
   B.   Other Permits Or Licenses: The fact that an applicant possesses other
types of State or City permits or licenses does not exempt the applicant from
the requirement of obtaining a regulatory permit. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-89: EMPLOYEE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Every employee or independent contractor (to the extent the independent
contractor is otherwise allowed by this article) working at a cannabis
operation or involved in transportation/delivery related services for a
cannabis business shall obtain an employee permit. It shall be the duty of the
operator to ensure that employee permits are obtained from the Police
Department prior to the employee or independent contractor commencing work.
Persons who are listed as a business owner on a regulatory permit shall not be
required to obtain an employee permit if such person also serves as an employee
or contractor. All responsible parties, except the business owner, shall be
required to obtain an employee permit.
   B.   Each employee and independent contractor shall be required to provide
the following information under penalty of perjury, so that the Police
Department can perform a background check:
      1.   Name, current resident address, and telephone number.
      2.   Date of birth.
      3.   Tax identification number.
      4.   Height, weight, color of eyes, and hair.
      5.   Photographs for identification purposes (photographs shall be taken
by the Police Department).
      6.   Be fingerprinted by the Police Department.
      7.   Such other identification and information as deemed necessary by the
Police Chief and pertinent to the employee permit.
      8.   Authorization for the City, its agents and employees to seek
verification of the information contained within the application.
      9.   The name of the business owner holding the regulatory permit and the
operator for which such person is proposed to work. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019; Ord.
1910, 6-3-2025)
15-90: APPLICATION FEES:
Every new application for a regulatory permit, employee permit, or renewal
shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee, as established by resolution of
City Council. This fee shall be in addition to any other business license, tax,
or permit fee imposed by this Code or other governmental agencies. The fee
shall include an amount to cover the costs of fingerprinting, photographing,
background checks as well as general ongoing monitoring for compliance and
processing of the application. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-91: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Upon the filing of a properly completed application and the payment of
the fee, the Police Chief is authorized to conduct an investigation of the
application, including a background check of the applicant and all employees
and independent contractors. All applicants for a regulatory permit and
employee permit shall be required to submit to a fingerprint-based criminal
history records check conducted by the Porterville Police Department.
   B.   For employee permits, after the background checks and investigation are
complete, and in no case later than thirty (30) days after receipt of a
properly completed application, the Police Chief shall either approve or deny
an employee permit. At the discretion of the Police Chief, employee permits may
be conditionally approved pending the background investigation. (Ord. 1853, 5-
7-2019)
15-92: TERM OF PERMITS AND RENEWALS:
Regulatory permits issued under this chapter shall expire on December 31st each
year. Applications for renewal shall be made at least forty five (45) days
prior to the expiration date of the permit and shall be accompanied by the
nonrefundable fee referenced in this article. When made less than forty five
(45) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be
stayed. Applications for renewal shall be acted on similar to applications for
permits except that the Police Chief shall renew annual permits for additional
one year periods if the circumstances and information provided with the initial
application have not materially changed. Regulatory fees may be pro-rated based
on the term of the regulatory permit. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-93: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF REGULATORY PERMIT:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to require the City to grant a
regulatory permit. Notwithstanding this, applications for a regulatory permit
are required to be denied for one or more of the following:
   A.   The business or conduct of the business at a particular location is
prohibited by any local or State law, statute, rule or regulation.
   B.   The business owner or operator has been issued a local or State permit
related to cannabis operations at any other location in California, or another
state, and that permit was suspended or revoked, or the business owner or
operator has had disciplinary action relating to the permit.
   C.   The business owner or operator has knowingly made a false statement of
material fact or has knowingly omitted to state a material fact in the
application.
   D.   Consistent with State law or other applicable State law, the business
owner or operator, or any responsible person, has been:
      1.   Convicted of a serious or violent offense as listed under California
Penal Code sections 667.5 and 1192.7(c); or
      2.   Convicted of any of the offenses listed in Business and Professions
Code section 19323; or
      3.   Convicted of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude as defined
under State law (generally crimes relating to theft and dishonesty) within the
five (5) years preceding the date of the application; or
      4.   Convicted of a felony involving the illegal use, possession,
transportation, distribution or similar activities related to controlled
substances, as defined in the Federal Controlled Substances Act, unless the
individual has received a Certificate of Rehabilitation as defined in the Act;
or
      5.   Has engaged in misconduct related to the qualifications, functions
or duties of a permittee, such as lying on an application, falsifying legal
documents, or anything that would otherwise ban the permittee from obtaining a
State license under State law; or
      6.   Consistent with State law or other applicable State law, the
business owner or operator has engaged in unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or
deceptive business acts or practices; or
      7.   The business owner or operator is under twenty one (21) years of
age, or any older other age set by the State; or
      8.   The cannabis operation does not comply with the Zoning Ordinance
standards of the City, the development standards set forth in this Code, or the
terms of the Development Agreement; or
      9.   The required annual business license fee, annual regulatory fee or
fees specified in this Code or the Development Agreement have not been paid.
(Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-94: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF EMPLOYEE PERMIT:
The grounds for denial of an employee permit shall be one or more of the
following:
   A.   The applicant has been issued a local or State permit related to
cannabis production at any other location in California, or another state, and
that permit was suspended or revoked, or the applicant has had disciplinary
action relating to the permit.
   B.   Consistent with State law or other applicable State law, the applicant
has been:
      1.   Convicted of a serious or violent offense as listed under California
Penal Code sections 667.5 and 1192.7(c); or
      2.   Convicted of any of the offenses listed in Business and Professions
Code section 19323; or
      3.   Convicted of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude as defined
under State law (generally crimes relating to theft and dishonesty) within the
five (5) years preceding the date of the application; or
      4.   Convicted of a felony involving the illegal use, possession,
transportation, distribution or similar activities related to controlled
substances, as defined in the Federal Controlled Substances Act, unless the
individual has received a Certificate of Rehabilitation as defined in State
law; or has engaged in misconduct related to the qualifications, functions or
duties of a permittee; or
      5.   Consistent with State law or other applicable State law, the
applicant has engaged in unlawful, fraudulent, unfair, or deceptive business
acts or practices; or
      6.   The applicant has committed any act, which, if done by a permittee,
would be grounds for suspension or revocation of a permit; or
      7.   An applicant is under twenty one (21) years of age, or any older age
set by the State. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-95: NOTICE OF DECISION AND FINAL ACTION:
   A.   Regulatory Permit: Action on a properly authorized and submitted
application for a regulatory permit shall be as follows:
      1.   The Police Chief shall cause a written notice of his or her
recommendation on the issuance or denial of a regulatory permit, and the date
and time when the City Council will consider action on the regulatory permit,
to be personally delivered or mailed to the applicant by certified U.S. mail,
postage prepaid.
      2.   Following a public hearing before the City Council, the Council may
grant the regulatory permit subject to the other requirements of this article
and subject to such conditions as it deems reasonable under the circumstances
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the community, or it may
deny the issuance of the regulatory permit for any of the grounds specified in
this section. The decision of the Council shall be final, subject to judicial
review below.
   B.   Employee Permit: Action on the employee permit shall be as follows: The
Police Chief shall cause a written notice of his or her determination on the
issuance or denial of an employee permit to be personally delivered or mailed
to the applicant by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid. The Police Chief's
decision on an employee permit shall be final, subject to judicial review.
(Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-96: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF REGULATORY PERMIT OR EMPLOYEE PERMIT:
   A.   Regulatory Permit: The City Council may suspend or revoke the
regulatory permit of a commercial cannabis operation when any of the following
occur:
      1.   The cannabis operation is conducted in violation of any provision of
this article, the terms of the Development Agreement, State law, or any other
applicable State law.
      2.   The cannabis operation is conducted in such a manner as to create a
public or private nuisance.
      3.   A failure to pay the regulatory fee required by this article or
other required fees pursuant to this Code or the Development Agreement.
      4.   A failure to take reasonable measures to control patron conduct,
where applicable, resulting in disturbances, vandalism, or crowd control
problems occurring inside of or outside the premises, traffic control problems,
or obstruction of the operation of another business.
      5.   A failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the regulatory
permit issued in connection therewith or the terms of the Development
Agreement.
      6.   Any act which would be considered grounds for denial of the
regulatory permit in the first instance.
   B.   Employee Permit: The Police Chief may suspend or revoke an employee
permit when the permittee or the employee has committed any one or more of the
following acts:
      1.   Any act which would be considered a ground for denial of the permit
in the first instance.
      2.   Violates any provision of this article, State law, or any other
applicable law relating to the cannabis operation.
      3.   Violates or fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the
employee permit.
   C.   Procedures For Revoking Regulatory Permits: For regulatory permits, the
procedures for revoking conditional use permits shall be utilized except that
the matter shall be heard by the City Council in the first instance, and shall
be subject to the same judicial process as applied to a conditional use permit.
   D.   Procedures For Revoking Employee Permits: Prior to suspension or
revocation of an employee permit, the Police Chief shall conduct a hearing.
Written notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be served upon the
permittee at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date set for such
hearing. The notice shall contain a brief statement of the grounds to be relied
upon for revoking or suspending the permit. Notice may be given either by
personal delivery or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid. Any permittee
aggrieved by the decision of the Police Chief in suspending or revoking an
employee permit shall have no appeal rights and the Police Chief's decision
shall be final, subject to judicial review as set forth in this section.
   E.   Immediate Suspension: The Police Chief may immediately suspend or
revoke a regulatory permit and an employee permit without notice or a hearing,
subject to the appeal rights set forth herein, under either of the following
circumstances:
      1.   The business owner or operator is convicted of a public offense in
any court for the violation of any law which relates to the cannabis operation,
or in the case of an employee permit, the employee is convicted of a public
offense in any court for the violation of any law which relates to the permit.
      2.   The Police Chief determines that immediate suspension is necessary
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the community. The Police
Chief shall articulate the grounds for the immediate suspension in writing and
the suspension shall only be for as long as necessary to address the
circumstances which led to the immediate suspension. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-97: EFFECT OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
When the City Council shall have denied a regulatory permit or revoked a
regulatory permit, or the Police Chief shall have denied or revoked an employee
permit, no new application for a regulatory permit and no new application for
an employee permit shall be accepted and no regulatory permit or employee
permit shall be issued to such person or to any corporation in which he or she
shall have any beneficial interest for a period of one year after denying or
revoking the regulatory permit or employee permit. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-98: ABANDONMENT:
In addition to the suspension or revocation of a regulatory permit, a
regulatory permit shall be deemed abandoned if the cannabis operation ceases
for a period of more than ninety (90) consecutive days. Before restarting
operations, a new regulatory permit shall be secured. The ninety (90) day
period shall be tolled during periods of force majeure, which shall be defined
as follows: war; insurrection; strikes; lock-outs; riots; floods; earthquakes;
fires; casualties; supernatural causes; acts of the "public enemy"; epidemics;
quarantine restrictions; freight embargoes; lack of transportation; unusually
severe weather; inability to secure necessary labor, materials or tools; delays
of any contractor, subcontractor or supplier; or any other causes beyond the
reasonable control of the permittee. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-99: OTHER LICENSES, PERMITS, TAXES OR CHARGES:
Except as expressly provided in this article, nothing contained in this article
shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect
any requirements for any permit or license required by, under or by virtue of
any provision of any other title or chapter of this Code or any other ordinance
or resolution of the City, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of,
replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or
required by, under or by virtue of any other title or chapter of this Code or
any other ordinance or resolution of the City. Any references made or contained
in any other title or chapter of this Code to any permits, licenses, taxes,
fees, or charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to refer
to the permits, licenses, taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees,
provided for in other titles or chapters of this Code unless otherwise
expressly provided. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-100: VIOLATION DEEMED MISDEMEANOR AND OTHER REMEDIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this article or who other than by a
sworn statement, knowingly or intentionally misrepresents to any officer or
employee of the City any material fact herein required to be provided is guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-9 of this Code. A person who on a sworn statement states as true a material
fact that he or she knows to be false is guilty of perjury. Additionally, the
City may avail itself of any remedies or enforcement provisions provided for in
this Code. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-101: ACTIONS TO COLLECT:
The amount of any tax, fee, penalty and/or interest imposed pursuant to this
chapter shall be deemed a debt owed to the City. An action may be commenced in
the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction, for the amount of
any delinquent tax, fees, penalties and interest thereon. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-102: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or its application to any person or
circumstance, is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unlawful, unenforceable or otherwise void, that determination shall have no
effect on any other provision of this chapter or the application of this
chapter to any other person or circumstance and, to that end, the provisions
hereof are severable. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-103: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
All remedies prescribed under this chapter shall be cumulative and the use of
one or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for
the purpose of enforcing the provisions hereof. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-104: AMENDMENT OR REPEAL:
This article may be repealed or amended by ordinance of the Porterville City
Council. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
15-105: PENALTIES:
Any entity that fails to pay the taxes and/or fees required by this Code or the
Development Agreement within fifteen (15) days after the due date shall pay in
addition to those taxes and/or fees a penalty for nonpayment in the sum equal
to twenty five percent (25%) of the total amount due. Additional penalties will
be assessed in the following manner: ten percent (10%) shall be added on the
first day of each calendar month following the month of the imposition of the
twenty five percent (25%) penalty if the fee remains unpaid - up to a maximum
of one hundred percent (100%) of the fee payable on the due date. Receipt of
the fee payment by the City shall govern the determination of whether the fee
is delinquent. Postmarks will not be accepted as adequate proof of a timely
payment. (Ord. 1853, 5-7-2019)
ARTICLE VIII. ROTATIONAL TOW SERVICES
SECTION:
15-110: Purpose
15-111: Definitions
15-112: Rules And Specifications
15-113: Number Of Towing Operators Determined
15-114: Application For Rotation Tow List
15-115: Referral To The Patrol Division Commander
15-116: Towing Rotation List
15-117: Appeal
15-118: Annual Renewal Application
15-119: Removal From The Rotation List
15-120: Execution Of Agreements
15-121: Exceptions
15-122: Authority For City To Maintain Its Own Towing Operations And Towing
Storage Yard
15-123: Violation; Penalty
15-110: PURPOSE:
The city council hereby finds that it is in the public interest to establish a
rotation list for towing services to provide the police department with an
expedient means of moving damaged and disabled vehicles, illegally parked
vehicles, vehicles that must be moved for safekeeping and evidentiary purposes,
and abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles constituting a
nuisance. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-111: DEFINITIONS:
   CHIEF: The chief of police of the city. For purposes of this article,
"chief" also includes any appropriate designee of the chief of police.
   DEPARTMENT: The city police department.
   ELIGIBILITY LIST: The city's list of towing operators who have filed an
application to participate in the rotation list and who the chief has
determined to be qualified to participate in the rotation list.
   PATROL DIVISION COMMANDER: The person commanding the patrol division of the
department.
   ROTATION LIST: The city's list of towing operators who have been selected
from the eligibility list to be used by the department for the purpose of
providing tow truck services in accordance with the provisions of this article.
   RULES AND SPECIFICATIONS: The city's rules and specifications for towing
services, drivers and vehicle storage facilities, which shall be promulgated by
the patrol division commander pursuant to section
15-112 of this article.
   TOW OR TOWING: The act of moving damaged or disabled vehicles, illegally
parked vehicles, vehicles that must be moved for safekeeping and evidentiary
purposes, and abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles
constituting a nuisance.
   TOW TRUCK: A motor vehicle that has been altered or designed and equipped
for and exclusively used in the business of towing vehicles by means of a
crane, towbar, towline, dolly or rollback carrier or is otherwise used to
render emergency assistance to disabled and other vehicles.
   TOWING OPERATOR: Any person, firm or corporation with a valid business
license from the city and engaged in the business of towing and storing
vehicles in the city. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-112: RULES AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   The patrol division commander shall promulgate written rules and
specifications governing the provision of towing services, the qualifications
and conduct of drivers, and the requirements for vehicle storage facilities.
The rules and specifications may be modified from time to time as deemed
appropriate by the chief. All towing services provided pursuant to the rotation
list shall be subject to the requirements set forth in the rules and
specifications.
   B.   The rules and specifications shall include, but not be limited to,
provisions requiring that all towing operators participating in the rotation
list do the following:
      1.   Obtain a city business license;
      2.   Enter into a tow service agreement (TSA) with the city;
      3.   Pass a background check as determined by the patrol division
commander; and
      4.   Abide by the provisions of this article and the rules and
specifications promulgated by the patrol division commander and the tow service
agreement. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-113: NUMBER OF TOWING OPERATORS DETERMINED:
   A.   The patrol division commander shall determine the number of towing
operators needed to provide towing services to the police department. On or
before July 1 of each calendar year, the patrol division commander shall make a
determination as to the appropriate number of towing operators to be placed on
the rotation list for the following year. The patrol division commander's
determination shall be based upon the number of towing service providers that
may be required for the public convenience and necessity and for the efficient
operation of the department. In determining the required number of towing
operators, the patrol division commander shall consider the following factors:
      1.   The operational needs of the police department;
      2.   The population growth in the city;
      3.   The additional land area annexed into the city;
      4.   The number of currently authorized towing operators and their
average response times;
      5.   The administrative burdens imposed by the number of towing operators
to be included on the rotation list; and
      6.   Other relevant, objective factors to be determined by the patrol
division commander.
   B.   The patrol division commander's determination shall be made in writing
and shall include the number of towing operators to be included on the rotation
list. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-114: APPLICATION FOR ROTATION TOW LIST:
   A.   Any person requesting to be on the PPD rotation tow listing shall
submit a letter of interest to the patrol division commander between July 1 and
July 15 of each calendar year. This letter of interest shall be accompanied by:
      1.   A signed Porterville police department tow service agreement;
      2.   A completed rotation tow listing application (CHP 234A);
         a.   Under CHP area on the form, mark N/A;
      3.   A completed tow operator/driver information form (CHP 234F) for each
person who will be driving for the business; and
      4.   All documentation required by the Porterville police department tow
service agreement, including documentation of a satisfactory level one
inspection and local tow truck inspection. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-115: REFERRAL TO THE PATROL DIVISION COMMANDER:
   A.   During July of each calendar year, an open enrollment meeting shall be
conducted to discuss any changes in the new TSA as well as any issues
concerning the rotation tow program. Upon receiving an application, the patrol
division commander shall cause an investigation to be conducted to determine
the applicant's qualifications to comply with the provisions of this article.
Within thirty (30) days after the filing of the application, the patrol
division commander shall determine whether the towing operator is eligible for
the rotation list. The patrol division commander shall determine eligibility
pursuant to guidelines set forth in the rules and specifications. If the patrol
division commander determines that a towing operator is qualified, the towing
operator's name shall be placed on the eligibility list. Qualified towing
operators shall be placed on the eligibility list in the order in which their
complete applications were received. If the patrol division commander
determines that a towing operator is not qualified, the towing operator shall
receive a written statement of the reasons for the patrol division commander's
decision.
      1.   In response to the department's duty to protect the public, and upon
completion of a background check, the patrol division commander may disqualify
an operator or driver for various reasons. These reasons include, but are not
limited to:
         a.   Prior felony conviction.
         b.   Pattern of thefts.
         c.   Crimes of moral turpitude. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-116: TOWING ROTATION LIST:
   A.   Towing operators selected to provide towing services to the city and to
participate in the rotation list shall abide by the rules and specifications
set forth in this article and the tow service agreement.
   B.   Based on the number of towing operators needed, as determined by the
patrol division commander pursuant to section
15-113 of this article, the patrol division commander shall select from the
eligibility list the appropriate number of towing operators to be placed on the
rotation list and participate in the towing rotation program for the following
year. The patrol division commander shall select towing operators from the
eligibility list in the order in which their complete applications were
received. If a towing operator is currently on the rotation list and is deemed
to be in good standing, that operator shall be granted a place on the next
rotation list providing they meet the terms and conditions set forth in the TSA
for that year.
   C.   When the patrol division commander or chief of police determines that
an emergency exists, nothing shall prohibit a city employee from requesting
services from a towing operator who is not on the list.
   D.   The rotation list may be amended from time to time as part of the
chief's promulgation or modification of the rules and specifications. (Ord.
1743, 7-1-2008)
15-117: APPEAL:
Any applicant deemed ineligible by the patrol division commander shall have the
right to appeal the decision to the chief of police. Appeals must be made by
filing a notice of appeal with the chief of police within ten (10) days of
receipt of a notice of the patrol division commander's decision. The chief of
police shall hear the appeal within thirty (30) days after the appeal is filed.
The chief of police shall notify the applicant of the decision within ten (10)
days after the decision is made. The chief of police may affirm or overrule the
patrol division commander's decision. The chief of police's decision shall be
final. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-118: ANNUAL RENEWAL APPLICATION:
To continue to participate in the rotation program, each towing operator on the
rotation list must file with the patrol division commander a renewal
application for the following year. The renewal application must be filed
during the annual enrollment period in the year prior to the year for which the
renewal is sought. The application must describe any changes regarding the
information in the original application. If there are no material changes and
if the patrol division commander determines that the towing operator has
performed well during the preceding year, the patrol division commander may
place the towing operator on the rotation list for the following year. If there
are material changes or if the patrol division commander determines that the
towing operator has not performed well, the renewal application will be treated
as if it were an original application and will be subject to the procedures for
reviewing new applications, as set forth in this article and in the rules and
specifications. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-119: REMOVAL FROM THE ROTATION LIST:
   A.   The patrol division commander may remove a towing operator from the
rotation list on any of the following grounds:
      1.   A finding that a towing operator falsified any portion of its
application or failed to include required or important information on the
application;
      2.   A finding that the towing operator has failed to comply with or
violated any of the terms or conditions of either this article, the towing
service agreement or the rules and specifications;
      3.   A finding that the towing operator has engaged in misconduct or a
pattern of behavior, by or through its agents or otherwise, that is either
inconsistent with the goals of providing quality service to the community or
not in the best interests of the city or its residents.
   B.   If the towing operator does not agree with the patrol division
commander's decision to remove the towing operator from the rotation list, it
may file an appeal with the chief of police, following the procedures set forth
in section
15-117 of this article. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-120: EXECUTION OF AGREEMENTS:
All towing operators selected to participate in the rotation list shall enter
into a towing service agreement with the city. The written agreement shall be
in a form approved by the city attorney. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-121: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this article shall prohibit or otherwise restrict owners or
operators of a vehicle from selecting and calling a towing vehicle of their own
choice. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-122: AUTHORITY FOR CITY TO MAINTAIN ITS OWN TOWING OPERATIONS AND TOWING
STORAGE YARD:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to restrict or prohibit the city
from conducting its own towing operations or maintaining its own towing storage
yard, either in lieu of or in addition to the towing services provided by and
the towing storage yards maintained by any towing operator participating in the
rotation list. (Ord. 1743, 7-1-2008)
15-123: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any towing operator or officer, official, employee or agent thereof who
violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In
addition to any other penalties, any towing operator violating any provision of
this article shall be subject to removal from the rotation list. (Ord. 1743, 7-
1-2008)
ARTICLE IX. MASSAGE BUSINESSES AND PRACTITIONERS
SECTION:
15-124: Applicability Of Chapter
15-125: Definitions
15-126: Exemptions
15-127: Requirements For Individuals Practicing Massage
15-128: Requirements For Massage Businesses
15-129: Violations
15-130: City Registration Certificate Suspension Or Revocation
15-131: Denial/Appeals
15-132: Conditions Of Approval
15-133: Hearing Fees
15-134: Reapplication After Denial Or Revocation
15-135: No Refund Of Fee
15-136: Inspection By Officials
15-137: Notifications
15-138: Business Location Change
15-139: Sale Or Transfer Of Massage Business Interest
15-124: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, all of the provisions of this chapter
shall be applicable to all massage businesses and all massage practitioners
operating within the city of Porterville. This article shall not be construed
in a manner that is inconsistent with any state law governing the practice of
massage.
   B.   Any massage business that is legally operating under a city of
Porterville business license as of the date of adoption hereof may procure a
registration certificate pursuant to this article without having achieved CAMTC
certification, so long as that business continues to operate without change in
ownership and in good standing with all applicable provisions of state,
federal, and Porterville laws and regulations, and otherwise complies with this
article in its entirety. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-125: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
   ANCILLARY MASSAGE SERVICES: Those services where less than twenty percent
(20%) of the gross floor area of the business is devoted to massage.
   CALIFORNIA MASSAGE THERAPY COUNCIL OR CAMTC: The massage therapy
organization formed pursuant to chapter 10.5 of division 2 of the Business And
Professions Code sections 4600 et seq.
   CERTIFIED MASSAGE PRACTITIONER OR THERAPIST: Any individual certified by the
California massage therapy council (CAMTC) as a certified massage therapist,
certified massage practitioner, or conditionally certified massage practitioner
pursuant to chapter 10.5 of division 2 of the California Business And
Professions Code sections 4600 et seq.
   CITY: The city of Porterville, California.
   CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Porterville or designee.
   CITY REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE OR REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE OR REGISTRATION: A
certificate issued by the city to a massage business to practice massage for
compensation pursuant to this article.
   CLIENT: The customer or patron who pays for or receives massage services.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: The community development director of the
city of Porterville or designee.
   COMPENSATION: The payment, loan, advance, donation, contribution, deposit,
exchange, or gift of money or anything of value.
   DAY: Calendar day, unless otherwise specifically expressed.
   DISQUALIFYING CONDUCT: Any of the following:
   A.   Within five (5) years immediately preceding the date the city
registration application was filed, or any time thereafter, the person has been
convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of the commission of or any
attempt to commit, directly or indirectly, or assisting in or abetting the
commission of, or conspiring to commit:
      1.   A violation of any provision of law pursuant to which a person is
required to register under the provisions of California Penal Code section 290;
      2.   Any violation of California Penal Code sections 266, 266a, 266e,
266f, 266g, 266h, 266i, 266j, 314, 315, 316, 318, 653.22, 653.23 or subsections
(a), (b) or (d) of section 647;
      3.   Any other crime involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or moral
turpitude;
      4.   A violation of California Penal Code section 415, 602, or any lesser
included or related offense, in satisfaction of, or as a substitute for, any of
the crimes previously listed in subsections A1 through A3 of this definition;
      5.   Any crime committed while engaged in the management or ownership of
a massage business or the practice of massage;
      6.   A violation of California Health And Safety Code sections 11054,
11055, 11056, 11057, or 11058; or
      7.   Any offense in another state or territory of the United States which
is the equivalent of any of the above offenses.
   B.   Within five (5) years of the date immediately preceding the date the
application was filed, or any time thereafter, any applicant whose city
registration certificate, CAMTC certification, or trainee registration
certificate or permit, which was issued by the state of California or any
county or city has been suspended or revoked for good cause;
   C.   Committing or maintaining a nuisance pursuant to California Penal Code
sections 11225 through 11235, and/or Health And Safety Code sections 11570 et
seq., for which a permanent injunction was issued, or committing a violation of
any similar provisions of law in another state or territory of the United
States; or
   D.   Committing a violation of any provision of this article provided that
the applicant received timely notice of the violation.
   EMPLOYEE: Any person hired by a massage business or owner who renders any
service for the business/owner in exchange for any form of compensation from
the business.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR OR DIRECTOR: The finance director of the city of
Porterville or designee.
   HEARING OFFICER: The administrative hearing officer appointed by the city
manager to conduct an administrative hearing pursuant to this article.
   MANAGER: The person(s) designated by the massage business owner to act as
the representative and agent of the owner in managing day to day operations
with corresponding responsibilities. The term "manager" may also include an
owner.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS OR BUSINESS: Any business that offers massage therapy in
exchange for compensation. Any business that offers any combination of massage
therapy and bath facilities, including, but not limited to, showers, baths, wet
and dry heat rooms, pools and hot tubs, shall be deemed a massage business
under this article. The term "massage business" includes a certified massage
practitioner or therapist who is the sole owner, operator and employee of a
massage business operating as a sole proprietorship. For purposes of this
article, "massage business" shall include, without limitation, the advertising
and soliciting of massages, and includes, but is not limited to, a certified
massage practitioner or therapist who is the sole owner, operator and employee
of a massage business operating as a sole proprietorship, as well as a massage
business which employs certified massage practitioners or therapists.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS OWNER OR OWNER: Any of the following persons:
   A.   Any person who is a general partner of a general or limited partnership
that owns a massage business.
   B.   Any person who has a five percent (5%) or greater ownership interest in
a corporation that owns a massage business.
   C.   Any person who is a member of a limited liability company that owns a
massage business.
   D.   Any person who has a five percent (5%) or greater ownership interest in
any other type of business association that owns a massage business.
   MASSAGE OR MASSAGE THERAPY: The skillful application of touch, including,
but not limited to, pressure, stroking, kneading, compression on or movement of
the external surfaces of the body to produce increased awareness, relaxation,
pain relief, injury rehabilitation, or neuromuscular reeducation. Examples of
massage include, but are not limited to, Swedish massage, sports massage,
shiatsu, polarity therapy, rolfing, hellerwork and reflexology.
   RECEPTION AREA: An area immediately inside the front door of the massage
business dedicated to the reception and waiting of clients of the massage
business and visitors, and which is not a massage therapy room or otherwise
used for the provision of massage therapy services.
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE HOLDER: The applicant named on the application for
a registration certificate and all massage business owners.
   RENT-SPACE MASSAGE THERAPIST OR RENT-SPACE THERAPIST: A person who practices
massage at a massage business but is not an employee of the business.
   SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP: Means and includes any legal form of business
organization where the business owner (sometimes referred to as the "sole
proprietor") is the only person employed by that business to provide massage
services.
   VISITOR: Any person who enters a massage business and who is neither a
client, owner, manager, nor employee of the business. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-126: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following classes of
individuals or businesses while engaged in the performance of their duties:
   A.   Complete exemption. The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to
the following individuals:
      1.   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, nurses or any
physical therapists who are duly licensed to practice their respective
professions in the State of California and persons working directly under the
supervision of or at the direction of the licensed persons, working at the same
location as the licensed person, and administering massage services subject to
review or oversight by the licensed person.
      2.   Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under the laws of the
State of California while engaging in practices within the scope of their
licenses, except that this exemption shall only apply if the massaging of the
neck, face and/or scalp, hands or feet of the clients is ancillary to the
primary service being provided by the barber or beautician.
      3.   Hospitals, nursing homes, mental health facilities, or any other
health facilities duly licensed by the State of California, and employees of
these licensed institutions, while acting within the scope of their employment.
      4.   Accredited high schools, junior colleges, and colleges or
universities whose coaches and trainers are acting within the scope of their
employment.
      5.   Any other business or profession exempt from the provisions of this
chapter by state law.
   B.   Limited Exemption. In addition to any other applicable provisions of
this article, businesses that offer ancillary massage services shall only be
required to comply with the provisions set forth in this section for the
massage portion of the business. The business shall comply with the following
provisions:
      1.   Massage services must be performed by a certified massage
practitioner or therapist;
      2.   Subsection
15-128 F of this article related to facility requirements as they pertain to
the portion of business that is utilized for massage;
      3.   Subsection
15-128 G of this article related to operational requirements; and
      4.   Section
15-136  of this article related to inspections.
   C.   Additional Limited Exemption/Temporary Permit. An individual who is
currently not a certified massage practitioner or therapist by CAMTC as defined
in Section
15-125 , due to his or her school having closed on or before June 30, 2016, may
obtain a license to practice massage therapy for compensation as a sole
practitioner or therapist or employee of a massage business for one six-month
period, pending CAMTC certification under its Closed School Policy(ies),
provided that all the following requirements are met:
      1.   Prior to applying for a permit under this section, he or she is
possesses a valid business license for massage therapy services and was at all
times in good standing in another U.S. city’s jurisdiction.
      2.   The individual provides sufficient evidence to and as determined by
the City of Porterville that he or she is applying to the CAMTC for
certification as a certified massage therapist or practitioner.
      3.   The individual provides evidence of current membership with the
Associated Bodywork & Massage Professionals, including proof of current
insurance coverage obtained through that Association.
      4.   The individual’s business location and operations must comply with
all other provisions of this Article and
Chapter 21  of the Porterville Municipal Code. A Non-CAMTC certified owner of a
business where the an individual will be engaging in massage therapy services
shall continue to be required to comply with all applicable requirements
specified in Article IX, including but not limited to
15-128 B.il, even if the massage therapy services qualify as ancillary massage
services.
      5.   If the individual does not receive his or her CAMTC certification
within the period specified above, the permit shall expire and the individual
will no longer be able to practice massage therapy services in the City. The
City may extend the permit for a maximum of one additional six-month period,
upon a showing by the individual that CAMTC certification/approval is pending,
after which no further extensions shall be granted.
   D.   Furnish Evidence: Any person claiming an exemption under this section
shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the city manager upon request that he or
she is entitled to the exemption, including, proof of bona fide employment or,
if applicable, a citation to the particular provision of state law upon which
that person relies. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016; amd. Ord. 1851, 3-5-2019)
15-127: REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS PRACTICING MASSAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any individual to practice massage therapy for
compensation as a sole practitioner or therapist or employee of a massage
business or in any capacity within the city unless that individual is a
certified massage practitioner or therapist. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-128: REQUIREMENTS FOR MASSAGE BUSINESSES:
   A.   Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any massage business to provide
massage services unless all of the following requirements are met:
      1.   All of the individuals employed by the massage business to perform
massage are certified massage practitioners or therapists;
      2.   The business has a valid city business license under this chapter;
and
      3.   The business has a valid city registration certificate under this
article.
   B.   Application For City Registration Certificate: The application for new
and renewal city registration certificates shall include the following
information, without limitation, and an application fee in an amount
established by city council resolution:
      1.   The legal name, address and telephone number of the massage
business.
      2.   A floor plan indicating how the use is proposed to be conducted
within the premises, a list of services to be provided, and a description of
any other business operated on the same premises.
      3.   Legal names of all owners of the massage business and the names of
all managers.
      4.   Home address and telephone number and business address and telephone
number of all owners of the massage business, and any previous home addresses
for a period of five (5) years immediately prior to the date of the application
and the dates of residence at each.
      5.   For all owners, a valid and current driver's license and/or photo
identification issued by a state or federal governmental agency, or other
photographic identification bearing a bona fide seal by a foreign government.
      6.   The form of business under which the massage business will be
operating (i.e., corporation, general or limited partnership, limited liability
company, or other form).
      7.   For all owners, a signed statement that all of the information
contained in the application is true and correct; that all owners shall be
responsible for the conduct of the business's employees or independent
contractors providing massage services; and acknowledging that failure to
comply with the California Business And Professions Code section 4600 et seq.,
any local, state, or federal law, or the provisions of this article may result
in revocation of the business's city registration certificate.
      8.   The massage license and registration history of all of the owners,
including whether the owner has operated any massage business or similar
business or occupation within any other county, city, or state; and whether or
not the applicant, in previously operating a massage business, has had the
license or registration certificate revoked, suspended, or denied. In the case
of revocation, suspension, or denial, the owner shall also include within the
form the reason(s) therefor, and any employment obtained subsequent to any
revocation, suspension or denial.
      9.   The employment history of each owner for five (5) years preceding
the date of the application, the inclusive dates of the employment history, and
the name and address of any massage business or similar business owned by the
individual, whether inside or outside the city. Employment history shall also
include whether the owner, including a corporation or partnership, or a former
employer of the applicant while so employed, was ever subjected to an abatement
proceeding under California Penal Code sections 11225 through 11235, or any
similar provisions of law in a jurisdiction outside the state.
      10.   For each owner of the massage business that is a certified massage
practitioner, a copy of that person's current certification from the California
massage therapy council as a certified massage practitioner, certified massage
therapist, or conditionally certified massage practitioner, and copy of that
person's CAMTC issued identification card.
      11.   For each owner that is not CAMTC certified, current fingerprints
taken by the city of Porterville police department or a certified and approved
California live scan fingerprinting center for the purpose of conducting a
background check on behalf of the city, to determine the criminal history of
the applicant, including whether the applicant has been convicted of any
felony, misdemeanor, infraction, or municipal code violation, or has been held
liable for any administrative or civil action, for an act that is substantially
related to the practice of massage or disqualifying conduct.
      12.   The name of each person the massage business employs or retains to
perform massage therapy for compensation. For each person the massage business
does or will employ or retain to perform massage therapy for compensation, a
copy of that person's current certification from the California massage therapy
council as a certified massage practitioner, certified massage therapist, or
conditionally certified massage practitioner and a copy of that person's CAMTC
issued identification card for each certified massage practitioner.
      13.   The name and address of the owner of the real property upon, in, or
from which the massage business is to be operated. In the event the applicant
or owner is not the legal owner of the property, the application shall be
accompanied by a copy of any written lease between the massage business and the
property owner authorizing use of the premises for a massage business, or,
alternatively, if there is no written lease, then a written, notarized
acknowledgment from the property owner that the property owner has been advised
that a massage business will be operated by the applicant upon, in, or from the
property owner's property.
      14.   Proof of current and valid workers' compensation insurance from an
insurer authorized to do business in California, in an amount as required by
law.
      15.   Authorization for the city, its employees and agents to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
registration certificate.
      16.   The name of the individual to receive notices on behalf of the
business.
      17.   Any other identification and information necessary to discover the
truth of the matters required to be set in the application.
   C.   Changes To Application Information: Any changes to the application
information during the period the city is reviewing the application shall be
immediately reported to the city. Failure to report these changes shall result
in denial of application.
   D.   Approval Or Denial Of City Registration Certificate And Massage
Business Registration Certificate Renewals:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days following receipt of a completed
application, the finance director shall either issue the registration
certificate or mail a written statement of the reasons for denial as set forth
below. The director shall deny a registration certificate to the applicant
where any of the following conditions exist:
         a.   The applicant or any owner has procured or attempted to procure a
registration certificate or other license by fraud, misrepresentation or
material misstatement;
         b.   The applicant or any owner is a person who, as established by
clear and convincing evidence, has engaged in "disqualifying conduct" as
defined in this article within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of
filing of the application;
         c.   The massage business, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted,
would not comply or has not complied with all the applicable laws, including,
but not limited to, all the city's building, fire, zoning, and health
regulations;
         d.   The applicant or any owner has violated any provision of this
article, or any similar ordinance, law, rule, or regulation of any other public
agency which regulates the operation of massage businesses;
         e.   The applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age;
         f.   The application is incomplete and the required supplementary
documents were not submitted within twenty (20) days of a request for these
documents by the finance director;
         g.   The applicant or any owner has been denied for good cause a
business registration certificate or license; has had their registration
certificate or registration revoked, suspended, or restricted for good cause;
has been proven to have violated any ordinance related to the practice of
massage; or has had any other disciplinary action taken for good cause against
them by another city, state, county or territory of the United States, or by
any other government agency; or
         h.   The applicant or any owner is indebted to the city for any unpaid
fee or fine.
      2.   If prosecution is pending against the applicant or any owner for
either conduct violating this article's provisions or conduct violating
Business And Professions Code section 4600 et seq., the director may postpone
the decision on the application until the prosecution's final resolution. As
used in this subsection, "prosecution" means charges filed by the district
attorney, administrative proceedings brought by a local government or agency,
or a civil or criminal action maintained by the Porterville city attorney or
prosecution attorney.
   E.   Written Notice Of Denial: Upon determining that grounds for denial
exist, the finance director shall furnish written notice of the denial to the
applicant. The notice shall summarize the principal reasons for the denial,
shall state that the applicant may request an appeal pursuant to section
15-131 of this article, and shall be delivered by mail to the applicant as that
name and address appear on the application.
   F.   Facilities Prerequisite To Registration Certificate Issuance: A
registration certificate shall not be issued pursuant to this article unless an
inspection reveals that the business complies with each of the following
minimum requirements of this article and chapter 21 of this code:
      1.   Facility Requirements:
         a.   No massage or massage services shall be given in a business, or
premises registered pursuant to this article, in any room or space enclosed or
divided by walls and fitted with a door capable of being locked from the
inside. This section shall not apply to the business's external doors and shall
not operate to prohibit a massage business from locking its external doors if
the business is a business entity owned by one individual with one or no
employees or independent contractors.
         b.   A list of services available and the cost of the services shall
be posted in an open and conspicuous public place on the premises. The services
shall be described in English and any other languages that the business
chooses. Only services on the posted list shall be performed.
         c.   Minimum lighting consisting of at least one artificial light of
not less than forty (40) watts shall be provided and shall be operating in each
room or enclosure where massage services are being performed on clients, and in
all areas where clients are present.
         d.   Massage businesses shall at all times be equipped with an
adequate supply of clean sanitary towels, coverings, and linens. Clean towels,
coverings, and linens shall be stored in enclosed cabinets. Towels and linens
shall not be used on more than one client, unless they have first been
laundered and disinfected. Disposable towels and coverings shall not be used on
more than one client. Soiled linens and paper towels shall be deposited in
separate, approved receptacles.
         e.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam
rooms, and all other physical facilities, shall be in good repair and
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
         f.   Adequate bathing, dressing, locker and toilet facilities shall be
provided for clients. A minimum of one tub or shower; one dressing room
containing a separate locker for each client to be served, which locker shall
be capable of being locked; as well as a minimum of one toilet and washbasin,
shall be provided in every massage business; provided, however, that if male
and female clients are to be served simultaneously at the business, separate
bathing, massage room(s), dressing room(s), and toilet facilities shall be
provided for male and female clients. This requirement may be modified upon
approval of the city manager if the services provided or site plan do not
necessitate some or all of these facilities.
         g.   A minimum of one washbasin for employees shall be provided at all
times. The basin shall be located within, or as close as practicable, to the
area devoted to performing massage services. Sanitary towels shall also be
provided at each basin. Hot and cold running water shall be provided at all
times.
         h.   In the reception area, in letters that are a minimum of one inch
(1") in height, a notice in English (and any other language that the business
chooses) that provides information substantially as follows:
THIS MASSAGE BUSINESS AND THE MASSAGE ROOMS DO NOT PROVIDE COMPLETE PRIVACY AND
ARE SUBJECT TO INSPECTION BY CITY AND HEALTH OFFICIALS WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE
         i.   No room or space enclosed or divided by walls and fitted with a
door where massage or massage services are performed shall be equipped with any
electronic, mechanical, or artificial device used or capable of being used, for
the recording or videotaping of visual images and/or sound.
         j.   Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms or cabinets, toilet
rooms, shower and bath rooms, tanning booths, whirlpool baths and pools shall
be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected as needed or required.
         k.   Standard or portable massage tables shall be used with a durable,
washable plastic or other waterproof material as a covering. The tables shall
be sanitized after each use.
         l.   A massage business shall operate only under the name specified in
its city registration certificate.
         m.   No massage business located in a building or structure with
exterior windows fronting a public street, highway, walkway, or parking area
shall block visibility into the interior reception and waiting area through the
use of curtains, closed blinds, tints, or any other material that obstructs,
blurs, or unreasonably darkens the view into the premises.
   G.   Operating Requirements:
      1.   Massage may be provided only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. No massage business shall be open and no
massage services shall be provided between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. A massage commenced prior to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. shall
nevertheless terminate at nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., and all clients shall exit
the premises at that time. It is the obligation of the massage business to
inform clients of the requirement that services must cease at nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M.
      2.   The owner and manager of a massage business shall be responsible for
displaying the city registration certificate and the CAMTC registration
certificate of each and every certified massage practitioner or therapist
employed in the business in an open and conspicuous place on the premises.
Passport size photographs of the registration certificate holder shall be
affixed to the respective registration certificate on display pursuant to this
section.
      3.   For each massage service provided, every massage business shall keep
a complete and legible written record of the following information:
         a.   The date and hour that service was provided;
         b.   The service received;
         c.   The name or initials of the employee entering the information;
and
         d.   The name of the employee administering the service.
The records shall be open to inspection and copying by the Porterville police
department, or other city officials charged with enforcement of this article.
These records may not be used by any massage business owner or employee for any
purpose other than as records of service provided and may not be provided to
other parties by any person unless otherwise required by law. The records shall
be retained on the premises of the massage business for a period of two (2)
years.
      4.   All massage business owners and their employees shall wear clean
outer garments. The garments shall not include any of the following:
         a.   Attire that is transparent or see through, or substantially
exposes the employee's undergarments;
         b.   Swim attire, if not providing a water based massage modality
accepted by the California massage therapy council;
         c.   Attire that exposes the employee's genitals, pubic areas,
buttocks, or breasts;
         d.   Attire worn in a manner that constitutes a violation of
California Penal Code section 314;
         e.   Attire worn in a manner that is otherwise deemed by the
California massage therapy council to constitute unprofessional attire based on
the custom and practice of the profession in California.
      5.   At all times during the massage, the client's genitals shall be
fully covered and contact shall not be made with the genitals.
      6.   The premises' exterior doors and the doors separating the waiting or
reception area from the remainder of the premises shall remain unlocked during
the business hours (including electronic locking devices) or when clients are
present. External doors may only be locked during business hours if the massage
business is a business entity owned by one individual with one or no employees
or independent contractors who are not employees of the business and there is
no staff available to assure security for clients and massage staff behind
closed doors.
      7.   During hours of operation, no person other than the listed manager
on duty, an employee, or a client shall be allowed beyond the reception area of
the massage business.
      8.   Clients and visitors shall only be permitted in the massage business
during the hours of operation.
      9.   Visitors shall only be permitted in the reception area of the
massage business.
      10.   Clients shall only be permitted in massage treatment areas if at
least one massage practitioner is on the premises.
      11.   The massage business shall be supervised, during all hours of
operation, by a manager specified in the city's registration application. The
name of the manager on duty shall be posted in a conspicuous place within the
reception area daily.
      12.   The owner and manager shall maintain a register of all employees or
rent-space massage therapists. The employee register shall be maintained on the
premises for a minimum period of two (2) years following an employee's
termination. The owner and manager shall make the employee register immediately
available for inspection upon demand by a representative of the Porterville
police department or the city at all reasonable times. The employee register
shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
         a.   The name, nicknames and/or aliases used by an employee or rent-
space massage therapist.
         b.   A good quality color photocopy of a lawfully issued CAMTC
certificate for each employee and rent-space therapist that provides massage
services.
         c.   The employee's or rent-space therapist's home address and
relevant phone numbers (including, but not limited to, home and cellular
numbers).
         d.   The employee or rent-space therapist's age, date of birth,
gender, height, weight, color of hair and eyes.
         e.   The date of employment and termination, if applicable, or, in the
case of a rent-space therapist, the start and end dates of the lease agreement,
as well as a copy of the agreement for all employees.
         f.   The duties of each employee.
      13.   While the city registration is in effect and at all times during
operation, the massage business shall fully maintain current and valid workers'
compensation insurance as required by law. Proof of insurance shall be
maintained on the premises at all times.
      14.   The massage business shall apply to the city for an amended city
registration certificate within twenty (20) days after the occurrence of any
circumstance which changes the registration information initially provided to
the city pursuant to this section, including, but not limited to, the
termination of certified massage practitioners or therapists. There shall be no
charge for an amended registration certificate unless the director determines
that the changes are substantial and a new certificate is required.
   H.   City Registration Certificate: A city registration certificate issued
pursuant to the terms of this article shall be valid for a term of one year
from the date of issuance and, unless suspended or revoked, may be renewed
annually upon application by the massage business owner so long as the massage
business is operating within the city. No registration certificate shall confer
any vested right to any person or business for more than the registration
period. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-129: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   In addition to any other remedy available under the law, violations of
this article are subject to all applicable remedies within this code,
including, but not limited to, section
1-9 of this code and/or the administrative citations and penalties provisions
in chapter 1 of this code.
   B.   Any massage business operated, conducted, or maintained contrary to the
provisions of this article shall constitute an unlawful business practice
pursuant to Business And Professions Code section 17200 et seq., and the city
attorney or district attorney may, in the exercise of discretion, in addition
to or in lieu of taking any other action permitted by this article, commence an
action or actions, proceeding or proceedings in the superior court of Tulare
County, seeking an injunction prohibiting the unlawful business practice and/or
any other remedy available at law, including, but not limited to, fines,
attorney fees and costs. All remedies provided for in this article are
cumulative.
   C.   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for a massage business to be
operated, conducted, or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article.
The city may exercise its discretion, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting
a criminal action, to commence proceedings for the abatement, removal, and
enjoinment of that business in any manner provided by law. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-
2016)
15-130: CITY REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   In addition to any other remedy available to the city under this code
or state law, any registration certificate may be suspended or revoked by the
director where it is found by substantial evidence that any of the following
have occurred:
      1.   The registration certificate holder and/or agent has violated any
provision of this article or the grounds for denial of the registration
certificate exist;
      2.   The registration certificate holder and/or agent is a person who has
engaged in "disqualifying conduct" as defined in this article;
      3.   The registration certificate holder and/or agent has failed to
comply with one or more of the facilities and operations requirements of this
article;
      4.   The registration certificate holder and/or agent has engaged in
fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement in conducting the massage
business;
      5.   The registration certificate holder and/or agent has continued to
operate the massage business after the city registration certificate or
registration has been suspended; or
      6.   The registration certificate holder and/or agent has failed to apply
with the city for an amended city registration certificate within twenty (20)
days after the occurrence of any circumstance which substantially changes the
registration information initially provided to the city pursuant to section
15-128 of this article, including, but not limited to, the termination of
certified massage practitioners or therapists; or
      7.   Massage treatments have been performed on the premises of the
massage business, with or without the registration certificate holder's actual
knowledge, by any person who:
         a.   Does not have a valid CAMTC certification; or
         b.   As established by clear and convincing evidence, has engaged in
conduct or has been convicted of the offenses described as disqualifying
conduct. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-131: DENIAL/APPEALS:
   A.   Notice of denial, suspension or revocation shall contain a statement of
the violation(s) which constitute the basis for the suspension or revocation
and information about the right to appeal. Notice of the suspension or
revocation shall be given by first class mail to the owner and real property
owner at the addresses shown on the registration certificate. Service shall be
deemed complete when the notice is mailed by first class mail. The owner shall
have ten (10) calendar days from the date the notice is served to appeal to the
finance director in writing and upon payment of a fee in an amount established
by city council resolution. Upon issuance of a notice of suspension or
revocation, the registration certificate shall be surrendered and no massage
activity may occur while any appeal proceeds.
   B.   Upon receipt of an appeal, the finance director shall appoint a hearing
officer. A hearing shall be scheduled upon not less than ten (10) calendar days
and not more than thirty (30) days, unless extended by mutual agreement. Notice
of the hearing shall be given by first class mail to the owner and real
property owner at the address shown on the registration certificate. Service
shall be deemed complete when the notice is mailed.
   C.   The hearing officer's jurisdiction is limited to determining whether
evidence exists to provide grounds for the registration certificate denial,
suspension or revocation.
   D.   The city shall provide proof of any violations by a preponderance of
the evidence. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to the hearing.
   E.   The hearing officer shall:
      1.   Receive evidence regarding the proposed suspension, revocation or
certificate denial.
      2.   Maintain a record of all evidence introduced.
      3.   Record the hearing.
      4.   Consider the nature, volume, severity, and frequency of any
violations.
      5.   Decide whether grounds exist of the suspension or revocation or
denial.
      6.   Issue a written decision within seven (7) days of the hearing that
includes the factual and legal basis of the decision and a notice of the appeal
rights contained in this article.
   F.   The hearing officer's decision shall be final upon mailing by first
class mail to the owner and real property owner at the address listed on the
registration certificate.
   G.   The hearing officer's decision is subject to review pursuant to
California Code Of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-132: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
The director or hearing officer may condition any city registration certificate
if they find that grounds for denial or revocation of a registration
certificate exist. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-133: HEARING FEES:
All hearings held as provided in this article may be subject to a filing fee in
an amount established by the city council resolution. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-134: REAPPLICATION AFTER DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   An applicant for a city registration certificate under this article
whose application for registration has been denied may not reapply for
registration for a period of two (2) years from the date of the denial.
However, a reapplication prior to the termination of two (2) years may be made
if accompanied by evidence that the ground(s) for denial of the application no
longer exist. Notwithstanding, if an application or renewal is denied due to
criminal activity at the business, no reapplication for a new massage business
at the same location will be accepted within two (2) years after the effective
date of the denial.
   B.   A registration certificate holder under this article whose registration
or renewal has been revoked or denied may not reapply for a registration
certificate for a period of two (2) years from the date of the revocation or
denial.
   C.   If an application or renewal is denied due to criminal activity at the
business, no reapplication for a new massage business at the same location will
be accepted within two (2) years after the effective date of the denial. (Ord.
1831, 1-19-2016)
15-135: NO REFUND OF FEE:
No refund or rebate of a registration certificate fee shall be allowed
regardless of whether the city registration certificate has been suspended or
revoked, or because the registration certificate holder discontinues an
activity for which a city registration certificate is required pursuant to this
article. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-136: INSPECTION BY OFFICIALS:
The investigating and enforcing officials, including, but not limited to, the
Porterville police department; Tulare County health department; or the city's
community development director, finance director, code enforcement, or building
and safety officials, or their designees, shall have the right to enter the
premises from time to time during regular business hours for the purpose of
making reasonable inspections to observe and enforce compliance with building,
fire, electrical, plumbing or health regulations, and to enforce compliance
with applicable regulations, laws, and statutes, and with the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-137: NOTIFICATIONS:
A massage business shall immediately report to the city's business license
department any of the following:
   A.   Arrests of any employees, owners, or managers of the registrant's
massage business for an offense other than a misdemeanor traffic offense;
   B.   Resignations, terminations, or transfers of certified massage
practitioners or therapists employed by the registrant's massage business;
   C.   The occurrence of any event involving the registrant's massage business
or the massage practitioners or therapists employed there that constitutes a
violation of this article or state or federal law. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
15-138: BUSINESS LOCATION CHANGE:
Upon a change of location of a massage business, a new application shall be
made to the director for a city registration certificate pursuant to the
requirements of section
15-128 of this article prior to commencing operation at the new location. The
application shall be granted, provided all applicable provisions of this
article and
chapter 21 of this code are complied with, and a change of location fee in an
amount established by city council resolution to defray the costs of
investigation and report has been paid to the city. A new location shall be
subject to an inspection under section
15-136 of this article before a new registration will be issued. (Ord. 1831, 1-
19-2016)
15-139: SALE OR TRANSFER OF MASSAGE BUSINESS INTEREST:
A sale or transfer of any interest in a massage business, which interest would
be reported as required in this article upon application for a city
registration certificate, shall be reported to the finance director within ten
(10) days of the sale or transfer. The finance director shall investigate any
person receiving any interest in a massage business as a result of the sale or
transfer, and if the person satisfies the requirements relating to city
registration certificate applicants, the existing registration certificate
shall be endorsed to include the person. A fee as set by resolution of the city
council shall be paid to the city for the investigation by the finance director
necessitated by each sale or transfer. (Ord. 1831, 1-19-2016)
CHAPTER 16
MINORS
SECTION:
16-1: Curfew; Generally
16-2: Curfew; Responsibility Of Parents, Guardians For Violation
16-3: Entering Poolrooms And Billiard Halls Where Alcoholic Beverages Served,
Etc., Prohibited
16-4: Penalties For Violation Of Section 16-3
16-1: CURFEW; GENERALLY:
Every person under the age of eighteen (18) years who loiters, wanders,
strolls, loafs or plays about or upon the public streets, avenues, alleys,
parks, public parking grounds or public places, between the hour of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M., and the time of sunrise the following day, when not accompanied
by his parent or legal guardian having legal custody and control of such
person, or spouse of such person over the age of twenty one (21) years, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. Code § 6211)
16-2: CURFEW; RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS FOR VIOLATION:
Every parent, guardian or other person having the legal care, custody or
control of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years who allows or
permits such person to violate any provision of section
16-1 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. Code § 6211.1)
16-3: ENTERING POOLROOMS AND BILLIARD HALLS WHERE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES SERVED,
ETC., PROHIBITED:
   A.   Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to visit, enter, frequent or patronize any poolroom or
billiard hall in the city of Porterville where beer, wine or any other
alcoholic beverage is served, sold or consumed.
   B.   Owners Prohibited From Permitting Minors To Enter: It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation or for the owner, manager or other person
in charge of or in control of or otherwise conducting any poolroom or billiard
hall in the city of Porterville where beer, wine or any other alcoholic
beverage is served, sold or consumed to permit or allow any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to visit, enter, frequent or patronize said
poolroom or billiard hall.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, a poolroom or billiard
hall that adjoins a place where beer, wine or any other alcoholic beverage is
served, sold or consumed and is connected by a common entryway, passageway,
door, window or other opening of any kind whatsoever shall be considered as a
poolroom or billiard hall where beer, wine or any other alcoholic beverage is
served, sold or consumed. (Ord. Code § 6221; Ord. 772 §§ 1–3, 9-17-1963)
16-4: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF SECTION 16-3:
Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of section
16-3 of this chapter shall be liable to have his license to do business in the
city of Porterville summarily revoked by action of the city council, and in
addition thereto, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment in the city or county jail not exceeding six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. Code § 6221.1; Ord. 772 §
4, 9-17-1963)
CHAPTER 17
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
17-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
17-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section. Whenever any words or phrases used herein are not defined, but
are defined in the Vehicle Code of the state of California and amendments
thereto, such definitions shall apply.
   CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT: All streets and portions of streets within the
area described as follows: All that area bounded by Morton Avenue, Third
Street, Olive and D Street.
   COACH: Any motor bus, motor coach, trackless trolley or passenger stage used
as a common carrier of passengers.
   COUNCIL: The council of the city of Porterville.
   CURB: The lateral boundary of the roadway, whether such curb be marked by
curbing construction, or not so marked; the word "curb", as herein used, shall
not include the line dividing the roadway of a street from parking strips in
the center of a street, nor from tracks or rights of way of public utility
companies.
   DIVISIONAL ISLAND: A raised island located in the roadway and separating
opposing or conflicting streams of traffic.
   HOLIDAYS: Within the meaning of this chapter, "holidays" are January 1,
February 12, the third Monday in February, the last Monday in May, July 4, the
first Monday in September, November 11, December 25 and Thanksgiving Day. If
January 1, February 12, July 4, November 11 or December 25 fall upon a Sunday,
the Monday following is a holiday.
   LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
city.
   PARKWAY: That portion of a street other than a roadway or a sidewalk.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the police department of this city or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   STOP: When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   VEHICLE CODE: The Vehicle Code of the state of California. (Ord. 1162 § 1,
12-5-1978; Ord. 1537 § B53, 8-6-1996)
ARTICLE II. TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
17-2: Police Administration
17-2.1: Duty Of Traffic Division
17-2.2: Traffic Accident Studies
17-2.3: Traffic Accident Reports
17-2.4: Traffic Division To Submit Annual Traffic Safety Report
17-2.5: City Traffic Engineer
17-2.6: Powers And Duties Of City Traffic Engineer; Delegation
17-2: POLICE ADMINISTRATION:
There is hereby established in the police department of this city a traffic
division to be under the control of an officer of police appointed by and
directly responsible to the chief of police. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-2.1: DUTY OF TRAFFIC DIVISION:
It shall be the duty of the traffic division, with such aid as may be rendered
by other members of the police department, to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
traffic accidents and to cooperate with the city traffic engineer and other
officers of the city in the administration of the traffic laws, and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon said division by this chapter and the traffic
ordinances of this city. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-2.2: TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES:
Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the traffic
division shall cooperate with the city traffic engineer in conducting studies
of such accidents and determining remedial measures. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-2.3: TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS:
The traffic division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for the use and
information of the city traffic engineer. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-2.4: TRAFFIC DIVISION TO SUBMIT ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT:
The traffic division shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the city council. Such a report shall contain information on traffic
matters in this city as follows:
   A.   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data.
   B.   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police.
   C.   The plans and recommendations of the division for future traffic safety
activities. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-2.5: CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER:
The office of city traffic engineer is hereby established. The city engineer
shall serve as city traffic engineer in addition to his other functions and
shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to traffic as provided in
this chapter. Whenever the city traffic engineer is required or authorized to
place or maintain official traffic control devices or signals, he may cause
such devices or signals to be placed or maintained. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-2.6: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER; DELEGATION:
It shall be the general duty of the city traffic engineer to determine the
installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic control devices and
signals, to conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents and to devise
remedial measures, to conduct engineering and traffic investigations of traffic
conditions, and to cooperate with other city officials in the development of
ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the additional
powers and duties imposed by ordinances of this city. Whenever, by the
provisions of this chapter, a power is granted to the city traffic engineer or
a duty imposed upon him, the power may be exercised or the duty performed by
his deputy or by a person authorized in writing by him. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-
1978)
ARTICLE III. ENFORCEMENT OF AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
17-3: Authority Of Police And Fire Department Officials
17-3.1: Persons Other Than Officials Shall Not Direct Traffic
17-3.2: Obedience To Police Or Authorized Officers
17-3.3: Traffic Regulations Apply To Persons Riding Bicycles Or Animals
17-3.4: Obstruction Or Interference With Police Or Authorized Officers
17-3.5: Public Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations
17-3.6: Exemption Of Certain Vehicles
17-3.7: Report Of Damage To Certain Property
17-3.8: When Vehicles May Be Removed From Streets (Tow Away Zones)
17-3: AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS:
Officers of the police department and such officers as are assigned by the
chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
audible or other signal in conformance with traffic laws, except that in the
event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the police department or members of the fire
department may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the
provisions to the contrary contained in this chapter or the state Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-3.1: PERSONS OTHER THAN OFFICIALS SHALL NOT DIRECT TRAFFIC:
No person other than an officer of the police department or members of the fire
department, or a person authorized by the chief of police, or a person
authorized by law, shall direct or attempt to direct traffic by voice, hand or
other signal, except that persons may operate, when and as herein provided, any
mechanical push button signal erected by order of the city traffic engineer.
(Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-3.2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OR AUTHORIZED OFFICERS:
No person shall fail or refuse to comply with, or shall perform any act
forbidden by, any lawful order, signal or direction of a traffic or police
officer, or a member of the fire department, or a person authorized by the
chief of police or by law. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-3.3: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES OR ANIMALS:
Every person riding a bicycle or riding or driving an animal upon a highway has
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those provisions which by their
very nature can have no application. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-3.4: OBSTRUCTION OR INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE OR AUTHORIZED OFFICERS:
No person shall interfere with or obstruct in any way any police officer or
other officer or employee of this city in their enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter. The removal, obliteration or concealment of any chalk mark or
other distinguishing mark used by any police officer or other employee or
officer of this city in connection with the enforcement of the parking
regulations of this chapter shall, if done for the purpose of evading the
provisions of this chapter, constitute such interference or obstruction. (Ord.
1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-3.5: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the operator of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, this state or any
county or city; and it shall be unlawful for any said operator to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter except as otherwise permitted in this chapter
or by the state Vehicle Code. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-3.6: EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to vehicles operated by the police or fire
department, any public ambulance or any public utility vehicle or any private
ambulance, which public utility vehicle or private ambulance has qualified as
an authorized emergency vehicle, when any vehicle mentioned in this section is
operated in the manner specified by the state Vehicle Code in response to an
emergency call.
   B.   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, relieve the operator of
any such vehicle from obligation to exercise due care for the safety of others
or the consequences of his wilful disregard of the safety of others.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter regulating the parking or standing of
vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle of a city department or public utility
while necessarily in use for construction or repair work, or any vehicle owned
or operated by the United States postal service while in use for the
collection, transportation or delivery of United States mail. (Ord. 1162 § 1,
12-5-1978)
17-3.7: REPORT OF DAMAGE TO CERTAIN PROPERTY:
   A.   The operator of a vehicle or the person in charge of any animal
involved in any accident resulting in damage to any property publicly owned or
owned by a public utility, including, but not limited to, any fire hydrant,
parking meter, lighting post, telephone pole, electric light or power pole, or
resulting in damage to any tree, traffic control device or other property of a
like nature located in or along any street, shall within twenty four (24) hours
after such accident make a written report of such accident to the police
department of this city.
   B.   Every such report shall state the time when and the place where the
accident took place, the name and address of the person owning and of the
person operating or in charge of such vehicle or animal, and the license number
of every such vehicle, and shall briefly describe the property damage in such
accident.
   C.   The operator of any vehicle involved in an accident shall not be
subject to the requirements or penalties of this section if and during the time
he is physically incapable of making a report, but in such event he shall make
a report as required in subsection A of this section within twenty four (24)
hours after regaining ability to make such report. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-3.8: WHEN VEHICLES MAY BE REMOVED FROM STREETS (TOW AWAY ZONES):
Any regularly employed and salaried officer of the police department of this
city may remove or cause to be removed:
   A.   Any vehicle that has been parked or left standing upon a street or
highway for seventy two (72) or more consecutive hours.
   B.   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.,
when such parking or standing is prohibited by ordinance or resolution of this
city and signs are posted giving notice of such removal.
   C.   Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway
where the use of such street or highway or a portion thereof is necessary for
the cleaning, repair or construction of the street or highway or for the
installation of underground utilities or where the use of the street or highway
or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose other than the normal flow
of traffic or where the use of the street or highway or any portion thereof is
necessary for the movement of equipment, articles or structures of unusual
size, and the parking of such vehicle would prohibit or interfere with such use
or movement; provided, that signs giving notice that such vehicle may be
removed are erected or placed at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the
removal. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE IV. TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
17-4: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
17-4.1: Traffic Control Signs Required For Enforcement Purposes
17-4.2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
17-4.3: Installation Of Traffic Signals
17-4.4: Lane Marking
17-4.5: Distinctive Roadway Markings
17-4.6: Authority To Remove, Relocate And Discontinue Traffic Control Devices
17-4.7: Traffic Control Devices; Hours Of Operation
17-4.8: Unauthorized Painting Of Curbs
17-4: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   The city traffic engineer shall have the power and duty to place and
maintain or cause to be placed and maintained official traffic control devices
when and as required to make effective the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Whenever the state Vehicle Code requires for the effectiveness of any
provision thereof that traffic control devices be installed to give notice to
the public of the application of such law, the city traffic engineer is hereby
authorized to install or cause to be installed the necessary devices subject to
any limitations or restrictions set forth in the law applicable thereto.
   C.   The city traffic engineer may also place and maintain, or cause to be
placed and maintained, such additional traffic control devices as he may deem
necessary or proper to regulate traffic or to guide or warn traffic; but he
shall make such determination only upon the basis of traffic engineering
principles and traffic investigations and in accordance with such standards,
limitations and rules as may be set forth in this chapter or as may be
determined by ordinance or resolution of the council. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-
1978)
17-4.1: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
No provision of the state Vehicle Code or of this chapter for which signs are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator unless appropriate
legible signs are in place giving notice of such provisions or the traffic
laws. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-4.2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The operator of any vehicle or train shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic control device placed in accordance with this article unless
otherwise directed by a police officer or other authorized person subject to
the exceptions granted the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to emergency calls. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-4.3: INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS:
   A.   The city traffic engineer is hereby directed to install and maintain
official traffic signals at those intersections and other places where traffic
conditions are such as to require that the flow of traffic be alternately
interrupted and released in order to prevent or relieve traffic congestion or
to protect life or property from exceptional hazard.
   B.   The city traffic engineer shall ascertain and determine the locations
where such signals are required by field investigation, traffic counts and
other traffic information as may be pertinent; and his determinations therefrom
shall be made in accordance with those traffic engineering and safety standards
and instructions set forth by the state of California, department of
transportation.
   C.   Whenever the city traffic engineer installs and maintains an official
traffic signal at any intersection, he shall likewise erect and maintain at
such intersection street name signs clearly visible to traffic approaching from
all directions unless such street name signs have previously been placed and
are maintained at any said intersection. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-4.4: LANE MARKING:
The city traffic engineer is authorized to mark centerlines and lane lines upon
the surface of the roadway to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles,
and may place signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic moving
in a particular direction, regardless of the centerline of the highway. (Ord.
1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-4.5: DISTINCTIVE ROADWAY MARKINGS:
The city traffic engineer is authorized to place and maintain distinctive
roadway markings as described in the Vehicle Code on those streets or parts of
streets where the volume of traffic or the vertical or other curvature of the
roadway renders it hazardous to drive on the left side of such marking or signs
and markings. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-4.6: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE, RELOCATE AND DISCONTINUE TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to remove, relocate or
discontinue the operation of any traffic control device not specifically
required by the state Vehicle Code or this chapter whenever he shall determine
in any particular case that the conditions which warranted or required the
installation no longer exist or remain. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-4.7: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; HOURS OF OPERATION:
The city traffic engineer shall determine the hours and days during which any
traffic control device shall be in operation or be in effect, except in those
cases where such hours or days are specified in this chapter. (Ord. 1162 § 1,
12-5-1978)
17-4.8: UNAUTHORIZED PAINTING OF CURBS:
No person, unless authorized by this city, shall paint any street or curb
surface; however, this section shall not apply to the painting of numbers on a
curb surface by any person who has complied with the provisions of any
resolution or ordinance of this city pertaining thereto. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-
1978)
ARTICLE V. TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
17-5: Authority To Place Turning Markers; Intersections, Multiple Lanes
17-5.1: Authority To Place Restricted Turn Signs
17-5.2: Signal Controlled Intersections; Right Turns
17-5: AUTHORITY TO PLACE TURNING MARKERS; INTERSECTIONS, MULTIPLE LANES:
The city traffic engineer is authorized to place official traffic control
devices within or adjacent to intersections and indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and the city traffic
engineer is authorized to locate and indicate more than one lane of traffic
from which drivers of vehicles may make right or left hand turns, and the
course to be traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as
prescribed by law or ordinance. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-5.1: AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS:
The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to determine those intersections
at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right turn, left turn or U-turn
and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns
may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other
hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they
may be removed when such turns are permitted. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-5.2: SIGNAL CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS; RIGHT TURNS:
   A.   No driver of a vehicle shall make a right turn against a red or stop
signal at any intersection which is sign posted giving notice of such
restriction as hereinafter provided in this section.
   B.   The city traffic engineer shall post appropriate signs giving effect to
this section where he determines that the making of right turns against a
traffic signal "stop" indication would seriously interfere with the safe and
orderly flow of traffic. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE VI. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
SECTION:
17-6: City Traffic Engineer To Sign One-Way Streets And Alleys
17-6: CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO SIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this city designates any one-way street
or alley, the city traffic engineer shall place and maintain signs giving
notice thereof; and no such regulations shall be effective unless such signs
are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall
be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE VII. SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
SECTION:
17-7: City Traffic Engineer To Erect Stop Signs
17-7.1: Stop At Through Street Or Stop Sign
17-7.2: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
17-7: CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO ERECT STOP SIGNS:
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this city designates and describes any
street or portion thereof as a through street, or any intersection at which
vehicles are required to stop at one or more entrances thereto, or any railroad
grade crossing at which vehicles are required to stop, the city traffic
engineer shall erect and maintain stop signs as follows:
A stop sign shall be erected on each and every street intersecting such through
street or portion thereof so designated, and at those entrances to other
intersections where a stop is required and at any railroad grade crossing so
designated; however, stop signs shall not be erected or maintained at any
entrance to an intersection when such entrance is controlled by an official
traffic control signal. Every such sign shall conform with, and shall be placed
as provided in, the state Vehicle Code. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-7.1: STOP AT THROUGH STREET OR STOP SIGN:
   A.   Those streets and parts of streets established by resolution of the
council are hereby declared to be through streets for the purposes of this
article.
   B.   The provisions of this article shall also apply at one or more
entrances to the intersections as such entrances and intersections are
established by resolution of the council.
   C.   The provisions of this article shall apply at those highway railway
grade crossings as established by resolution of the council. (Ord. 1537 § B54,
8-6-1996)
17-7.2: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE VIII. MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
17-8: Driving Through Funeral Procession
17-8.1: Clinging To Moving Vehicle
17-8.2: Commercial Vehicles Using Private Driveways
17-8.3: Riding Or Driving On Sidewalk
17-8.4: New Pavement And Markings
17-8.5: Obedience To Barriers And Signs
17-8.6: No Entrance Into Intersection That Would Obstruct Traffic
17-8.7: Limited Access
17-8.8: Restrictions On Use Of Freeways
17-8.9: Driving Across Fire Hose
17-8.10: Operation Of Off Highway Motor Vehicles
17-8: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSION:
No operator of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral procession or a parade if such vehicles are conspicuously so
designated. The directing of all vehicles and traffic on any street over which
such funeral procession or parade wishes to pass shall be subject to the orders
of the police department. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-8.1: CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLE:
No person shall attach himself with his hands, or catch on, or hold on with his
hands or by other means, to any moving vehicle or train for the purpose of
receiving motive power therefrom. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-8.2: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES USING PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS:
No person shall operate or drive a commercial vehicle in, on or across any
private driveway approach or sidewalk area or the driveway itself without the
consent of the owner or occupant of the property if a sign or markings are in
place indicating that the use of such driveway is prohibited.
For the purpose of this section a commercial vehicle shall mean a vehicle
having a rated capacity in excess of one-half (1/2) ton. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-
1978)
17-8.3: RIDING OR DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
No person shall ride, drive, propel or cause to be propelled any vehicle or
animal across or upon any sidewalk excepting over permanently constructed
driveways and excepting when it is necessary for any temporary purpose to drive
a loaded vehicle across a sidewalk; but said sidewalk area must be
substantially protected by wooden planks two inches (2") thick and written
permission must be previously obtained from the city traffic engineer. Such
wooden planks shall not be permitted to remain upon such sidewalk area during
the hours from six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 1162 §
1, 12-5-1978)
17-8.4: NEW PAVEMENT AND MARKINGS:
No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across any
newly made pavement or freshly painted markings in any street when a barrier
sign, cone marker or other warning device is in place warning persons not to
drive over or across such pavement or marking, or when any such device is in
place indicating that the street or any portion thereof is closed. (Ord. 1162 §
1, 12-5-1978)
17-8.5: OBEDIENCE TO BARRIERS AND SIGNS:
No person, public utility or department in the city shall erect or place any
barrier or sign on any street unless of a type approved by the city traffic
engineer or disobey the instructions, remove, tamper with or destroy any
barrier or sign lawfully placed on any street by any person, public utility or
by any department of this city. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-8.6: NO ENTRANCE INTO INTERSECTION THAT WOULD OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC:
No operator of any vehicle shall enter any intersection or a marked crosswalk
unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or
crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the
passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-8.7: LIMITED ACCESS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway except
at such entrances and exits as are lawfully established. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-
1978)
17-8.8: RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF FREEWAYS:
No person shall drive or operate any bicycle, motor driven cycle or any vehicle
which is not drawn by a motor vehicle upon any street established as a freeway,
as defined by state law, nor shall any pedestrian walk across or along any such
street so designated and described except in space set aside for the use of
pedestrians, provided official signs are in place giving notice of such
restrictions. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-8.9: DRIVING ACROSS FIRE HOSE:
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be driven over or across any
unprotected fire hose in use by the Porterville fire department or any other
governmental agency within the city of Porterville unless directed to do so by
a member of the Porterville fire department, a member of the police department,
or by a member of any other city, county or state law enforcement or fire
agency. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-8.10: OPERATION OF OFF HIGHWAY MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, an "off highway motor
vehicle" is any of the following:
Any motor vehicle subject to the provisions of subdivision (a) of section 38010
of the California Vehicle Code (CVC) subparagraph (b), including, but not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Any motorcycle or motor driven cycle.
      2.   Any motor vehicle commonly referred to as a sand buggy, dune buggy
or all terrain vehicle.
      3.   Any motor vehicle commonly referred to as a jeep.
   B.   Operation Within One-Half Mile Of Any Residence: It shall be unlawful
for any off highway motor vehicle described in subsection A of this section to
be operated within one-half (1/2) mile of any residence. (Ord. 1170 § A, 6-19-
1979)
ARTICLE IX. PEDESTRIAN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
17-9: Traffic Engineer To Establish Marked Crosswalks
17-9.1: When Pedestrians Must Use Crosswalks
17-9: TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO ESTABLISH MARKED CROSSWALKS:
   A.   The city traffic engineer shall establish, designate and maintain
crosswalks at intersections and other places by appropriate devices, marks or
lines upon the surface of the roadway as follows:
Crosswalks shall be established and maintained at all intersections and at
other places where the city traffic engineer determines that there is
particular hazard to pedestrians crossing the roadway, subject to the
limitation contained in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Other than crosswalks at intersections, no crosswalk shall be
established in any block which is less than four hundred feet (400') in length,
and such crosswalk shall be located as nearly as practicable at mid block.
   C.   The city traffic engineer may place signs at or adjacent to an
intersection in respect to any crosswalk directing that pedestrians shall not
cross in the crosswalk so indicated. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-9.1: WHEN PEDESTRIANS MUST USE CROSSWALKS:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than by a crosswalk in the central
traffic district or in any business district. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE X. STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES OR IN CERTAIN
PLACES
SECTION:
17-10: Application Of Regulations
17-10.1: Stopping Or Standing In Parkways Prohibited
17-10.2: Traffic Engineer To Maintain No Stopping Zones And No Parking Areas
17-10.3: No Parking Areas
17-10.4: Use Of Streets For Storage Of Vehicles Prohibited
17-10.5: Parking For Demonstration
17-10.6: Repairing Or Greasing Vehicles On Public Streets
17-10.7: Washing Or Polishing Vehicles
17-10.8: Parking Adjacent To Schools
17-10.9: Parking Prohibited On Narrow Streets
17-10.10: Parking On Grades
17-10.11: Emergency Parking Signs
17-10.12: Parking Vehicles For Sale On Street Prohibited; Sale Of Merchandise
From Parked Vehicle Prohibited
17-10.12.1: Prohibited On Private Property Without Consent Of Owner;
Applicability Of Section To Commercial Property
17-10.12.2: Restrictions On Vehicle Vendors; Pushcarts On Public Right Of Way
17-10.12.3: Violations And Penalties
17-10.13: Parking In City Parks
17-10: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the stopping, standing or
parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein
specified, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic control device.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on standing or
parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions of the state Vehicle Code or the ordinances of this city
prohibiting or limiting the standing or parking of vehicles in specified places
or at specified times. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.1: STOPPING OR STANDING IN PARKWAYS PROHIBITED:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within any parkway. (Ord. 1162 §
1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.2: TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO MAINTAIN NO STOPPING ZONES AND NO PARKING AREAS:
The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to maintain, by appropriate
signs or by paint upon the curb surface, all no stopping zones, no parking
areas and restricted parking areas as defined and described in this chapter.
When said curb markings or signs are in place, no operator of any vehicle shall
stop, stand or park such vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb marking or
sign in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-
5-1978)
17-10.3: NO PARKING AREAS:
No operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand, park or leave standing such
vehicle in any of the following places except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
other authorized officer, or traffic sign or signal:
   A.   Within any divisional island unless authorized and clearly indicated
with appropriate signs or markings.
   B.   On either side of any street between the projected property lines of
any public walk, public steps, street or thoroughfare terminating at such
street when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon
the curb surface.
   C.   In any area where the city traffic engineer determines that the parking
or stopping of a vehicle would constitute a traffic hazard or would endanger
life or property when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red
paint upon the curb surface.
   D.   In any area established by resolution of the council as a no parking
area when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the
curb surface.
   E.   Upon, along or across any railway track in such manner as to hinder,
delay or obstruct the movement of any car traveling upon such track.
   F.   In any area where the parking or stopping of any vehicle would
constitute a traffic hazard or would endanger life or property.
   G.   On any street or highway where the use of such street or highway, or a
portion thereof, is necessary for the cleaning, repair or construction of the
street or highway or the installation of underground utilities; or where the
use of the street or highway or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose
other than the normal flow of traffic; or where the use of the street or
highway or any portion thereof is necessary for the movement of equipment,
articles or structures of unusual size and the parking of such vehicle would
prohibit or interfere with such use or movement; provided, that signs giving
notice of such prohibited parking are erected or placed at least twenty four
(24) hours prior to the effective time of such no parking.
   H.   At any place within twenty feet (20') of a point on the curb
immediately opposite the mid block end of a safety zone when such place is
indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface.
   I.   At any place within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection
(in the central traffic district) or in any business district when such place
is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface, except
that a bus may stop at a designated bus stop.
   J.   Within twenty feet (20') of the approach to any traffic signal,
boulevard, stop sign or official electric flashing device. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-
5-1978)
17-10.4: USE OF STREETS FOR STORAGE OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any vehicle shall
park such vehicle upon any street or alley for more than a consecutive period
of seventy two (72) hours. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.5: PARKING FOR DEMONSTRATION:
No operator of any vehicle shall park said vehicle upon any street in this city
for the principal purpose of advertising or displaying it for sale unless
authorized by resolution of the council. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.6: REPAIRING OR GREASING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS:
No person shall construct or cause to be constructed, repair or cause to be
repaired, grease or cause to be greased, dismantle or cause to be dismantled
any vehicle or any part thereof upon any public street in this city. Temporary
emergency repairs may be made upon a public street. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.7: WASHING OR POLISHING VEHICLES:
No person shall wash or cause to be washed, polish or cause to be polished any
vehicle or any part thereof upon any public street in this city when a charge
is made for such service. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.8: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
   A.   The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon that side of any street adjacent to any school
property when such parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous situation.
   B.   When official signs are erected prohibiting parking upon that side of a
street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any
such designated place. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.9: PARKING PROHIBITED ON NARROW STREETS:
   A.   The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to place signs or
markings indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway
does not exceed twenty feet (20') or upon one side of a street as indicated by
such signs or markings when the width of the roadway does not exceed thirty
feet (30').
   B.   When official signs or markings prohibiting parking are erected upon
narrow streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any
such street in violation of any such sign or marking. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-
1978)
17-10.10: PARKING ON GRADES:
No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle unattended on a highway when
upon any grade exceeding three percent (3%) (within any business or residence
district) without blocking the wheels of said vehicle by turning them against
the curb or by other means. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.11: EMERGENCY PARKING SIGNS:
   A.   Whenever the city traffic engineer or chief of police shall determine
that an emergency traffic congestion is likely to result from the holding of
public or private assemblages, gatherings, or functions, or for other reasons,
the city traffic engineer or chief of police shall have power and authority to
order temporary signs to be erected or posted indicating that the operation,
parking or standing of vehicles is prohibited on such streets and alleys as the
city traffic engineer or chief of police shall direct during the time such
temporary signs are in place. Such signs shall remain in place only during the
existence of such emergency and the city traffic engineer or chief of police
shall cause such signs to be removed promptly thereafter.
   B.   When signs authorized by the provisions of this section are in place
giving notice thereof, no person shall operate, park or stand any vehicle
contrary to the directions and provisions of such signs. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-
1978)
17-10.12: PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE ON STREET PROHIBITED; SALE OF MERCHANDISE
FROM PARKED VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park the same upon any
street for the purpose of displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon
any street in any business district from which such vehicle merchandise is
being sold. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-10.12.1: PROHIBITED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT CONSENT OF OWNER;
APPLICABILITY OF SECTION TO COMMERCIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall park or operate a vehicle upon a private driveway or
upon private property within the city without the actual or implied consent of
the owner or person in lawful possession of such driveway or said persons,
agents, or employees; nor shall a person continue to park or operate a vehicle
upon such driveway or property, once said consent has been withdrawn.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall be effective on
commercial property only if there is displayed a sign prohibiting parking or
driving without the consent of the owner or person in possession of said
property. For purposes of this section "commercial property" is property used
for or in connection with a business for profit. (Ord. 1233 § A, 3-17-1981)
17-10.12.2: RESTRICTIONS ON VEHICLE VENDORS; PUSHCARTS ON PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall stand or
park any vehicle, wagon, or pushcart from which goods, wares, merchandise,
fruits, vegetables or foodstuffs are sold, displayed, solicited or offered for
sale or bartered or exchanged, or any lunch wagon or eating cart or vehicle, on
any portion of any street, parking lot, or public right of way within this city
except that such vehicles, wagons, or pushcarts may stand or park only at the
request of a bona fide purchaser for a period of time not to exceed ten (10)
minutes at any one place.
   B.   No person shall vend at any location for more than ten (10) minutes
without moving to a new location at least three hundred feet (300') removed
therefrom and may not return to a location where the vendor has stopped to vend
within the previous two (2) hours.
   C.   Routes of vendors shall be restricted to minor residential streets:
      1.   Pushcarts (walking type) shall be restricted to walkways, sidewalks
and other areas appropriate to accommodate pedestrian traffic.
      2.   Pushcarts (riding type) shall be restricted to vehicular travel
areas and shall be prohibited from utilizing pedestrian walkways.
   D.   Hours of operation shall be restricted to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   E.   Sounds produced in association with vending shall be restricted as
follows:
      1.   Pushcarts of any type shall be limited to bells only.
      2.   Vehicles shall be in compliance with
chapter 3, article III of this code.
   F.   Vending in connection with any special event as permitted by the city
council shall be exempt from the provisions of this section. (Ord. 1531 § C1,
6-18-1996)
17-10.12.3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating section
17-10.12.2 of this article or any provisions thereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that
any provision of this article is violated is a separate and distinct offense
and shall be punishable as a separate and distinct offense. Notwithstanding the
classification of a violation of this article as a misdemeanor, at the time an
action is commenced to enforce the provisions of this article, the trial court,
upon recommendation of the prosecuting attorney, may reduce the charged offense
from a misdemeanor to an infraction. Any person convicted of an infraction
under this article shall be punished by:
   A.   A fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation;
   B.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second
violation of this article within one year; and
   C.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
additional violation of this article within one year. (Ord. 1531 § C2, 6-18-
1996)
17-10.13: PARKING IN CITY PARKS:
   A.   Regulated: No person shall operate, drive, stop, park or leave standing
any motor vehicle, other than on paved roadways or paved parking areas, in any
city park, except when in possession of a permit issued by the director of
parks and leisure services permitting that person to operate, drive, stop, park
or leave standing said motor vehicle, and further, except any motor vehicle
being operated, driven, stopped, parked or left standing by a city employee in
the course and scope of his or her duties.
   B.   Permit: A permit may be obtained from the city to park on other than
paved roadways or paved parking areas at the aforementioned city parks. The
party requesting such permit shall apply to the director of parks and leisure
services for such permit, on a form specified by that department, for any
person or group activity, no less than five (5) working days prior to the
requested date. (Ord. 1559 § 1, 6-23-1998)
ARTICLE XI. STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
STREETS AND PUBLIC PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
17-11: Twenty Minute Parking
17-11.1: One Hour Parking
17-11.2: Two Hour Parking
17-11.3: Parking Parallel On One-Way Streets
17-11.4: Diagonal Parking
17-11.5: Parking Space Markings
17-11.6: No Stopping Zones
17-11.7: Parking Of Commercial Vehicles In Residential Districts
17-11.8: Parking Truck Trailers Prohibited On City Streets
17-11.9: Parking Commercial Vehicles Along Westwood Street
17-11.10: On Street Parking
17-11.11: Off Street/Publicly Owned Facilities
17-11.12: Parking Spaces For Disabled Persons
17-11: TWENTY MINUTE PARKING:
Green curb marking shall mean no standing or parking for a period of time
longer than twenty (20) minutes at any time between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day, except Sundays and holidays.
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by
the city traffic engineer to be necessary and are in place giving notice
thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or park said vehicle
adjacent to any such legible curb marking or sign or parking meter in violation
thereof. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-11.1: ONE HOUR PARKING:
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by
the city traffic engineer to be necessary and are in place giving notice
thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or park said vehicle
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of
any day, except Sundays and holidays, for a period of time longer than one
hour. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-11.2: TWO HOUR PARKING:
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by
the city traffic engineer to be necessary and are in place giving notice
thereof, no operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or park such vehicle
between the hours eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any
day, except Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays, for a period of time longer
than two (2) hours. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1411, 4-18-1989)
17-11.3: PARKING PARALLEL ON ONE-WAY STREETS:
   A.   Subject to other and more restrictive limitations, a vehicle may be
stopped or parked within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb facing in
the direction of traffic movement upon any one-way street unless signs are in
place prohibiting such stopping or standing.
   B.   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways, and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless
signs are in place permitting such standing or parking.
   C.   The city traffic engineer is authorized to determine when standing or
parking shall be prohibited upon the left hand side of any one-way street or
when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of any one-
way roadway of a highway having two (2) or more separate roadways and shall
erect signs giving notice thereof.
   D.   The requirement of parallel parking imposed by this section shall not
apply in the event any commercial vehicle is actually engaged in the process of
loading or unloading freight or goods, in which case such vehicle may be backed
up to the curb, provided that such vehicle does not extend beyond the
centerline of the street and does not block traffic thereby. (Ord. 1162 § 1,
12-5-1978)
17-11.4: DIAGONAL PARKING:
On any of the streets or portions of streets established by resolution of the
council as diagonal parking zones, when signs or pavement markings are in place
indicating such diagonal parking, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle to park said vehicle except:
   A.   At the angle to the curb indicated by signs or pavement markings
allotting space to parked vehicles and entirely within the limits of said
allotted space;
   B.   Any vehicle utilizing diagonal parking spaces shall park so that no
part of the rear of the vehicle shall protrude past an imaginary line that runs
parallel with the curb and even with the end of the painted stripes of the
diagonal parking spaces.
The provisions of this section shall not apply when such vehicle is actually
engaged in the process of loading or unloading passengers, freight or goods, in
which event the provisions applicable in subsection 17-11.3D of this article
shall be complied with. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1264, 7-6-1982; Ord.
1537 § B55, 8-6-1996)
17-11.5: PARKING SPACE MARKINGS:
The city traffic engineer is authorized to install and maintain parking space
markings to indicate parking spaces adjacent to curbings where authorized
parking is permitted.
When such parking space markings are placed on the highway, subject to other
and more restrictive limitations, no vehicle shall be stopped, left standing or
parked other than within a single space, unless the size or shape of such
vehicle makes compliance impossible. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-11.6: NO STOPPING ZONES:
The city traffic engineer shall designate established no stopping zones by
placing and maintaining appropriate signs indicating that stopping of vehicles
is prohibited and indicating the hours and days when stopping is prohibited.
During the hours and on the days designated on the signs, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any vehicle to stop said vehicle on any of the streets or
parts of streets established by resolution of the council as no stopping zones.
(Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-11.7: PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Prohibited; Violation: Except as noted below, no person shall park any
commercial vehicle having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of ten
thousand (10,000) pounds or more, in whole or in part, on any roadway adjacent
to any property zoned RS-1, RS-2, RM-1, RM-2, RM-3, PK, or PO in the city of
Porterville. Such violation shall be an infraction.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   While loading or unloading property. This exception shall apply only
while such work is actually in progress and those in control of the vehicle are
on the scene.
      2.   While parked in connection with, and in aid of, the performance of a
service to or on a property in the block in which such vehicle is parked. This
exemption shall apply only while such work is actually in progress and those in
control of the vehicle are on the scene.
      3.   When the vehicle has experienced mechanical failure along an
authorized route of travel for such vehicles and only while repair or towing
services are actually en route to, or repairing/towing said vehicle. This
exemption shall apply only while the person in control of the vehicle is on the
scene. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1390, 11-3-1987; Ord. 1663 § A, 3-1-
2005; Ord. 1833, 6-21-2016)
17-11.8: PARKING TRUCK TRAILERS PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS:
The operator of any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of four (4)
tons shall not disconnect the trailer or trailers from said vehicle and park
the trailer or trailers on a city street, unless parked under a permit issued
by the chief of police. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1263, 5-4-1982; Ord.
1271, 12-7-1982; Ord. 1289, 11-1-1983; Ord. 1411, 4-18-1989; Ord. 1513 § A, 6-
6-1995; Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1632, 4-15-2003)
17-11.9: PARKING COMMERCIAL VEHICLES ALONG WESTWOOD STREET:
   A.   Prohibition: Except as noted below, no person shall park any commercial
vehicle having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of ten thousand
(10,000) pounds or more, in whole or in part, on any roadway adjacent to any
property zoned commercial along Westwood Street from Pioneer Avenue to the Tule
River, in the city of Porterville.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   While loading or unloading property. This exception shall apply only
while such work is actually in progress and those in control of the vehicle are
on the scene.
      2.   While parked in connection with, and in the aid of, the performance
of a service to or on a property in the block in which such vehicle is parked.
This exemption shall apply only while such work is actually in progress and
those in control of the vehicle are on the scene.
      3.   When the vehicle has experienced mechanical failure along an
authorized route of travel for such vehicles and only while repair or towing
services are actually en route to, or repairing/towing said vehicle. This
exemption shall apply only while the person in control of the vehicle is on the
scene. (Ord. 1698, 6-20-2006)
17-11.10: ON STREET PARKING:
The city traffic engineer shall designate special "blue curb" parking spaces
for the purpose of providing on street parking for exclusive use by physically
disabled persons in accordance with section 22511.7 of the California Vehicle
Code. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1513 § B, 6-6-1995)
17-11.11: OFF STREET/PUBLICLY OWNED FACILITIES:
   A.   The city traffic engineer shall designate parking stalls or spaces in
publicly owned, leased, or controlled off street parking facilities for
exclusive use by physically disabled persons.
   B.   The city traffic engineer shall designate eleven (11) parking spaces
for transit users within the publicly owned parking lot located at the
southeast corner of Hockett Street and Oak Avenue. The city traffic engineer
shall issue rules and regulations needed for the administration and enforcement
of transit users parking within transit user designated parking spaces
including, but not limited to, criteria and procedures for issuance and
revocation of a parking permit.
   C.   When signs authorizing the provisions of this section are in place
giving notice thereof, no person shall operate, park or stand any vehicle
contrary to the directions and provisions of such signs.
   D.   Citation fees shall be set by resolutions of the city council if deemed
to warrant fees. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1513 § B, 6-6-1995; Ord. 1746,
8-19-2008)
17-11.12: PARKING SPACES FOR DISABLED PERSONS:
No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in a stall or space which has
been designated to be used exclusively by disabled persons who display on their
vehicle a distinguishing license plate or a placard issued pursuant to
California Vehicle Code section 22511.5 or to be used by a disabled veteran as
specified in Vehicle Code section 22511.9. The designation for such stalls or
spaces shall be made by posting immediately adjacent to, and visible from, each
stall or space a sign consisting of a profile view of a wheelchair with
occupant in white on a blue background, or by outlining the stall or space in
blue markings and outlining on the ground, in the stall or space, a similar
profile view depicting a wheelchair with occupant.
The owner or person in lawful possession of an off street parking facility,
after notifying the police or department, may cause the removal, from a stall
or space designated for physically disabled persons, in the parking facility to
the nearest public garage, of any vehicle not displaying one of the
distinguishing placards or license plates specified in this section, if there
is posted immediately adjacent to, and visible from, the stall or space, or if
there is posted in a conspicuous place at the entrance to the off street
parking facility, not less than seventeen by twenty two inches (17 x 22") in
size with letters not less than one inch (1") in height, a sign which clearly
and conspicuously states the following:
Unauthorized vehicles not displaying distinguishing placards or license plates
issued for physically disabled persons will be towed away at owner's expense.
Towed vehicles may be reclaimed by telephoning the Porterville Police
Department, (209) 782-7426.
(Ord. 1275, 2-15-1983; Ord. 1513 § B, 6-6-1995)
ARTICLE XII. STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY
SECTION:
17-12: Authority To Establish Loading Zones
17-12.1: Curb Markings To Indicate Prohibited Stopping And Parking Regulations
17-12.2: Effect Of Permission To Load Or Unload
17-12.3: Standing For Loading Or Unloading Only
17-12.4: Standing In Passenger Loading Zone
17-12.5: Standing In Any Alley
17-12.6: Coach Zones To Be Established
17-12: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH LOADING ZONES:
   A.   The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to determine and to mark
loading zones and passenger loading zones as follows:
      1.   In any business district.
      2.   Elsewhere in front of the entrance to any place of business or in
front of any hall or place used for the purpose of public assembly.
   B.   In no event shall more than one-half (1/2) of the total curb length in
any block be reserved for loading zone purposes.
   C.   Loading zones shall be indicated by yellow paint upon the top of all
curbs within such zones.
   D.   Passenger loading zones shall be indicated by white paint upon the top
of all curbs in said zones. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-12.1: CURB MARKINGS TO INDICATE PROHIBITED STOPPING AND PARKING REGULATIONS:
The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized, subject to the provisions and
limitations of this chapter, to place, and when required herein shall place,
the following curb markings to indicate parking or standing regulations, and
said curb markings shall have the meanings as herein set forth.
   A.   Red shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time except as
permitted by the state Vehicle Code, and except that a bus may stop in a red
zone marked or signed as a bus zone.
   B.   Yellow shall mean no stopping, standing or parking at any time between
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sunday
(s) and holidays for any purpose other than the loading or unloading of
passengers or materials; provided, that the loading or unloading of passengers
shall not consume more than three (3) minutes nor the loading or unloading of
materials more than twenty (20) minutes.
   C.   White shall mean no stopping, standing or parking for any purpose other
than loading or unloading of passengers, or for the purpose of depositing mail
in an adjacent mailbox, which shall not exceed three (3) minutes, and such
restrictions shall apply between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. of any day except Sunday(s) and holidays and except as follows:
      1.   When such zone is in front of a hotel or in front of a mailbox the
restrictions shall apply at all times.
      2.   When such zone is in front of a theater the restrictions shall apply
at all times except when such theater is closed.
   D.   When the city traffic engineer, as authorized under this chapter, has
caused curb markings to be placed, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb marking in violation of any of the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-12.2: EFFECT OF PERMISSION TO LOAD OR UNLOAD:
   A.   Permission herein granted to stop or stand a vehicle for purposes of
loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial vehicles and
shall not extend beyond the time necessary therefor, and in no event for more
than twenty (20) minutes.
   B.   The loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial
deliveries, also the delivery or pick up of express and parcel post packages
and United States mail.
   C.   Permission herein granted to stop or park for purposes of loading or
unloading passengers shall include the loading or unloading of personal baggage
but shall not extend beyond the time necessary therefor and in no event for
more than three (3) minutes.
   D.   Within the total time limits above specified, the provisions of this
section shall be enforced so as to accommodate necessary and reasonable loading
or unloading but without permitting abuse of the privileges hereby granted.
(Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-12.3: STANDING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any yellow loading zone for
any purpose other than loading or unloading passengers or material for such
time as is permitted in section
17-12.2 of this article. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-12.4: STANDING IN PASSENGER LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any passenger loading zone for
any purpose other than the loading or unloading of passengers for such time as
is specified in section
17-12.2 of this article. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-12.5: STANDING IN ANY ALLEY:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose other than the
loading or unloading of persons or materials in any alley. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-
5-1978)
17-12.6: COACH ZONES TO BE ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to establish bus zones
opposite curb space for the loading and unloading of buses or common carriers
of passengers and to determine the location thereof.
   B.   Coach zones shall normally be established on the far side of an
intersection. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE XIII. RESTRICTED USE OF CERTAIN STREETS
SECTION:
17-13: Certain Vehicles Prohibited In Central Traffic District
17-13.1: Truck Routes
17-13.2: Designation Of Interstate Truck Access Routes
17-13.3: Commercial Vehicles Prohibited From Using Certain Streets
17-13: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT:
   A.   No person shall operate any of the following vehicles in the central
traffic district between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. of any day:
      1.   Any freight vehicle more than eight and one-half feet (81/2') in
width, with load, or any freight vehicle so loaded that any part of its load
extends more than three feet (3') to the front or ten feet (10') to the rear of
said vehicle.
      2.   Any vehicle carrying building material that has not been loaded, or
is not to be unloaded, at some point within the central traffic district.
   B.   The city traffic engineer may by written permit authorize the operation
of any such vehicle for the purposes of making necessary emergency deliveries
to or from points within the central traffic district. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-
1978)
17-13.1: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Whenever any resolution of this city designates and describes any
street or portion thereof as a street, the use of which is permitted by any
vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of four (4) tons, the city
traffic engineer is hereby authorized to designate such street or streets by
appropriate signs as truck routes for the movement of vehicles exceeding a
maximum gross weight limit of four (4) tons.
   B.   When any such truck route or routes are established and designated by
appropriate signs, the operator of any vehicles exceeding a maximum gross
weight limit of four (4) tons shall drive on such route or routes, and none
other, except that nothing in this section shall prohibit the operator of any
vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight of four (4) tons coming from a "truck
route" having ingress and egress by direct route to and from restricted streets
when necessary for the purpose of making pick ups or deliveries of goods, wares
and merchandise from or to any building or structure located on such restricted
streets, or for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the actual
and bona fide repair, alteration, remodeling or construction of any building or
structure upon such restricted streets for which a building permit has
previously been obtained therefor.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Passenger buses under the jurisdiction of the public utilities
commission; or
      2.   Any vehicle owned by a public utility while necessarily in use in
the construction, installation or repair of any public utility.
   D.   Those streets and parts of streets established by resolution of the
council are hereby declared to be truck routes for the movement of vehicles
exceeding a maximum gross weight of four (4) tons. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-13.2: DESIGNATION OF INTERSTATE TRUCK ACCESS ROUTES:
   A.   Legislative Authority: This section is adopted, in accordance with the
federal surface transportation assistance act (STAA), pursuant to the authority
set forth in sections 35100, 35401, and 35401.5 of the Vehicle Code of the
state of California.
   B.   Purpose:
      1.   It is the purpose of this section to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of residents of this city by setting minimum standards for the use of
city streets by certain interstate trucks. To that end, this section and the
provisions thereunder shall be liberally construed.
      2.   It is additionally the intention of the city council to minimize the
wear and tear on city streets with increased usage by certain interstate trucks
while still providing the fullest possible access for city residents and
businesses utilizing the benefits and services of such traffic.
   C.   Not Exclusive Regulation: This section is not the exclusive regulation
of city streets. It shall supplement and be in addition to the other regulating
statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereinafter enacted by the state, county,
or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
   D.   Administration And Enforcement: Except as otherwise provided, this
section shall be administered by the city traffic engineer and enforced by the
city police chief.
   E.   Application Of Section: This section applies to all city controlled and
maintained streets and any truck traffic, local or interstate, using such
streets.
   F.   Definitions: Except where the context otherwise requires, the following
definitions shall govern the construction of this section:
   CALTRANS: The state of California department of transportation.
   CITY: The city council of the city of Porterville, California.
   CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER: The city traffic engineer or his duly authorized
agents.
   INTERSTATE TRUCK: A combination of vehicles consisting of a truck tractor
and semitrailer, with or without an additional trailer, which conforms to the
conditions of section 35401.5 of the Vehicle Code of California. Any licensed
carrier of household goods when directly en route to or from a point of loading
or unloading of household goods, whose travel on highways other than those
designated through this section is necessary and incidental to the shipment of
the household goods, is specifically excluded from this definition.
   POINT OF DECISION: Any intersection, junction or other point on a street
where a driver must decide to proceed straight, turn, exit or enter (driveway
entrances are excluded).
   TERMINAL: A facility at which freight is consolidated to be shipped, where
shipments may be loaded or unloaded, or at which truck and trailer combinations
are regularly maintained, stored or manufactured.
   TRAFFIC ENGINEER: The city traffic engineer or his duly authorized agents.
   G.   Declaration Of Prohibition: The city hereby prohibits the use of any
interstate truck upon the streets under its jurisdiction except on specifically
designated interstate truck terminal access routes as hereinafter provided.
City designation of an interstate truck terminal access route which is
available for use shall be evidenced by specific signs posted at all points of
decision on the interstate truck terminal access route.
   H.   Procedure For Terminal Access Route Designation:
      1.   STAA Truck Route Map:
         a.   STAA truck routes shall be adopted by resolution of the city
council with a copy of the official STAA truck route map attached.
         b.   The official STAA truck route map may be amended, from time to
time, by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Application:
         a.   Any terminal owner or authorized agent wishing to have an
interstate truck terminal access route designated to a particular terminal,
which route is wholly or partly made up of city streets, shall submit an
application and supply all information and documents requested to the city
traffic engineer. The application shall be on a form provided by the traffic
engineer and available in the engineering division of the city during hours
when the city is regularly open for business days. The application shall be
accompanied by the applicable fee set by resolution of the city council.
         b.   Additional information may be required upon request by the
traffic engineer. Written notification of any changes in any information
supplied during the application process must be submitted to the traffic
engineer. If such additional or changed information is not provided within five
(5) working days or is inaccurate, the traffic engineer may deny the
application.
      3.   Investigation:
         a.   The traffic engineer shall investigate all applications for
interstate truck terminal access route designations.
         b.   Following the investigation, the traffic engineer shall compile a
report describing the proposed route and any alternative routes. The report
shall further identify any deficiencies or problems within the proposed route
or alternate routes which must be corrected before such routes can be finally
approved for designation as interstate truck access routes.
      4.   Approval:
         a.   The traffic engineer shall take one of the following actions on
an application:
            (1)   Approve the application route as proposed.
            (2)   Approve the application route on the condition that the
applicant correct any or all identified deficiencies to the satisfaction of the
traffic engineer prior to any use of the route.
            (3)   Deny the application.
         b.   If the application route is approved on the condition that any
deficiencies be corrected, such correction must be commenced within three (3)
months of conditional approval and shall comply with all normal city
procedures, standards and permit requirements. Adequacy of correction of the
deficiencies shall be subject to the approval of the traffic engineer. The
traffic engineer may deny final approval of any route upon the applicant's
failure to comply with any of these provisions.
         c.   The applicant may appeal any conditional approval or any denial
in accordance with subsection I of this section.
      5.   CALTRANS And Other Local Agency Approval:
         a.   Once the traffic engineer has approved a proposed or alternate
route, the traffic engineer shall submit the proposed route to CALTRANS for
approval. The traffic engineer shall also notify the applicant if approval by
an affected local agency or county is necessary. Final approval by the city
shall be contingent upon compliance by the applicant with all requirements set
out by CALTRANS and approval by any other affected local agency or county.
         b.   If the applicant fails to meet any requirements by CALTRANS or is
denied approval by any other affected local agency, the traffic engineer shall
deny the application, which denial shall be final and not appealable to the
city council.
      6.   Posting Of Signs: Following final approval, the traffic engineer
shall post signs which mark the course of the interstate truck terminal access
route. Such signs shall be posted in accordance with standards adopted by the
traffic engineer.
      7.   Availability For Use: After the city council adopts a resolution
amending the official STAA truck route map, the traffic engineer, after posting
all necessary signs, shall notify the applicant and the California highway
patrol, that a route has been designated and marked and is available for use.
      8.   Suspension; Revocation: The traffic engineer may, at any time and in
his sole discretion, revoke his approval of any route if the route becomes
unsafe. The designation of any route may be temporarily suspended to allow for
repairs or other construction. A permanent revocation or temporary suspension
may be appealed in accordance with subsection I of this section.
   I.   Appeal:
      1.   Generally: To appeal a conditional approval or a denial of
designation by the traffic engineer, the applicant shall provide written notice
of appeal to the traffic engineer within ten (10) days of notification of the
conditional approval or denial. Such written notice shall set out all reasons
why the applicant believes such conditions or denial are inappropriate.
      2.   Initial Review: Upon receipt of a written notice of appeal, the
traffic engineer shall reconsider the conditions or denial and notify the
applicant of the results of his review in writing within forty five (45) days.
If the applicant is not satisfied by the traffic engineer's decision after
review, the applicant may appeal directly to the city council. If the applicant
is satisfied, the procedures in subsections H3 and H4 of this section as to
correction of deficiencies, approval by other agencies, and posting of signs
shall be followed.
      3.   Appeal To City Council:
         a.   If the applicant wishes to appeal to the city council the traffic
engineer's decision on reconsideration rendered under subsection I2 of this
section, appeal shall be made by letter to the city manager. Such appeal shall
be filed within ten (10) days of the traffic engineer's decision on
reconsideration.
         b.   If the city council orders approval or conditional approval of a
requested route, then the procedures set out in subsections H3 and H4 of this
section as to correction of deficiencies, approval by other agencies and
posting of signs shall be followed. The city council's decision on the
applicant's appeal shall be final. Judicial review of such decision shall be in
accordance with California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5.
      4.   Renewal Of Application: The denial of a route application shall be
final as to that route unless there is a material change of circumstances
between the date of denial and the date of filing a renewed application. A
material change of circumstances may include construction and improvement of
the proposed route for a different purpose or a decision by CALTRANS to
withdraw a previous rejection of the route. The traffic engineer may reject a
renewed application for a previously rejected route without investigation or
report unless the applicant when making the renewed application provides
written evidence of such a material change of circumstances. Denial by the
traffic engineer of a renewed application shall be final for all appeal
purposes. (Ord. 1391 § B, 11-17-1987; Ord. 1513 § C, 6-6-1995; Ord. 1537 § B56,
8-6-1996)
17-13.3: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED FROM USING CERTAIN STREETS:
   A.   Whenever any resolution of this city designates and describes any
street or portion thereof as a street the use of which is prohibited by any
commercial vehicle, the city traffic engineer shall erect and maintain
appropriate signs on those streets affected by such resolution.
   B.   Those streets and parts of streets established by resolution of the
council are hereby declared to be streets the use of which is prohibited by any
commercial vehicle. The provisions of this section shall not apply to passenger
buses under the jurisdiction of the public utilities commission. (Ord. 1162 §
1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1391 § A, 11-17-1987)
ARTICLE XIV. TRAINS
SECTION:
17-14: Railway Gates
17-14.1: Trains Not To Block Crossings
17-14: RAILWAY GATES:
No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-14.1: TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK CROSSINGS:
No person shall cause or permit any railway train or railway cars or similar
vehicle on rails to stop or stand or to be operated in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for the purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than ten (10) minutes; except that this provision shall not apply to
railway trains, cars or similar vehicles on rails while blocking or obstructing
a crossing because of an accident which requires the operator of the train, car
or similar vehicle on rails to stop at or near the scene of the accident. (Ord.
1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE XV. SPECIAL SPEED ZONES
SECTION:
17-15: Prima Facie Speed Limits Determined On Certain Streets
17-15.1: Driving In Excess Of Prima Facie Speed Limits Prohibited
17-15.2: Regulation Of Speed By Traffic Signals
17-15: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMITS DETERMINED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
It is hereby determined and found that the prima facie speed limit as set forth
below is most appropriate and will facilitate the orderly movement of traffic
and is reasonable and safe. Said prima facie speed limits are as follows:
Conner Street:                          
 Morton Avenue to Olive Avenue           35 mph
Date Avenue:                            
 Howard Street to east city limits       35 mph
Gibbons Avenue:                         
 Indiana to Jaye                         45 mph
Henderson Avenue:                       
 Elderwood to Westwood                   40 mph
 West city limits to east city limits    35 mph
Howard Street:                          
 Orange Avenue to Date Avenue            35 mph
Indiana Street:                         
 Henderson Avenue to Westfield Avenue    30 mph
 Morton Avenue to Westfield Avenue       35 mph
 Scranton to Poplar                      40 mph
Jaye Street:                            
 Olive Avenue to State Route 190         35 mph
Leggett Street:                         
 Isham to Putnam                         35 mph
Main Street:                            
 Date Avenue to south city limits        40 mph
 Date to Olive                           30 mph
 Morton Avenue to Henderson Avenue       35 mph
 Morton Avenue to Date Avenue            25 mph
 Reid Avenue to Henderson                45 mph
 Westfield to Linda Vista                50 mph
Mathew Street:                          
 Heritage to Olive                       30 mph
 Tule River to Olive Avenue           35 mph, except within the school zone
                                       per SVC section 22358.4
Morton Avenue:                          
 Leggett to Conner                       40 mph
 Plano to Leggett                        40 mph
 Westwood Street to Hillcrest Street     35 mph
Newcomb Street:                         
 Olive Avenue to north city limits       35 mph
 River Springs to Olive                  35 mph
 Tule River to Olive Avenue              25 mph
North Grand Avenue:                     
 West city limits to Main Street         35 mph
Olive Avenue:                           
 Newcomb Street to Villa Street          35 mph
 Villa Street to Plano Street            35 mph
 West city limits to Salisbury Street    40 mph
Orange Avenue:                          
 Jaye Street to Main Street              30 mph
 Main Street to Howard Street            35 mph
Plano Street:                           
 Henderson to Morton Avenue              40 mph
 Morton to State Route 190               35 mph
 North city limits to Henderson          35 mph
 State Route 190 to south city limits    40 mph
Poplar Avenue:                          
 Jaye Street to west city limits         45 mph
Porter Road:                            
 Olive Avenue to Henderson Avenue        35 mph
Prospect:                               
 Morton Avenue to Westfield              35 mph
Putnam Avenue:                          
 Porter Road to Villa Street             30 mph
 Third Street to Crestview Street        30 mph
 Villa Street to Third Street            25 mph
Springville Avenue:                     
 Indiana to Jaye                         40 mph
 Jaye to E                               35 mph
Tomah Avenue:                           
 Westwood Street to Newcomb Street       25 mph
Villa Street:                           
 Olive Avenue to Henderson Avenue        30 mph
Westfield Avenue:                       
 Newcomb to Prospect                     35 mph
 Prospect Street to Main Street          35 mph
 Westwood Street to Lombardi Street      25 mph
Westwood Street:                        
 Olive to Henderson                      35 mph
 Olive to Tule River                     45 mph
 Tule River to north city limits         35 mph
 Tule River to Vine                      35 mph
 Vine to Olive                            35 mph
 
The above prima facie speed limits are hereby set and established in the
locations set forth above. (Ord. 1537 § B57, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1583 § A, 9-21-
1999; Ord. 1595 § A, 3-20-2001; Ord. 1604 § A, 6-5-2001; Ord. 1628 § A, 4-1-
2003; Ord. 1637 § A, 7-15-2003; Ord. 1643 § A, 12-16-2003; Ord. 1725, 8-21-
2007; Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013; Ord. 1811, 6-3-2014; Ord. 1915, 8-19-2025)
17-15.1: DRIVING IN EXCESS OF PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMITS PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful to drive, operate, or propel a vehicle of
any type over the prima facie speed set forth in section
17-15 of this article at the locations set forth in section
17-15 of this article; and any person found guilty of violating the terms of
the speeds at the locations set forth in section
17-15 of this article shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished in the manner set forth in the state Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-15.2: REGULATION OF SPEED BY TRAFFIC SIGNALS:
The city traffic engineer is authorized to regulate the timing of traffic
signals so as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner
at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within the
district or at intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice
thereof. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE XVI. OBSTRUCTION TO VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS
SECTION:
17-16: Shrubbery Obstructing Visibility Of Intersections
17-16: SHRUBBERY OBSTRUCTING VISIBILITY OF INTERSECTIONS:
Whenever the traffic engineer finds that any hedge, shrubbery or tree growing
in a parkway obstructs the view of any intersection, or any traffic upon the
streets approaching such intersection, he shall cause the hedge, shrubbery or
tree to be immediately removed or reduced in height. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLE XVII. ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
17-17: Parking And Storing Prohibited
17-17.1: Misdemeanor
17-17.2: Public Nuisance; Definitions
17-17.3: Exceptions
17-17.4: Supplement To Other Codes, Regulations
17-17.5: Enforcement
17-17.6: Franchise
17-17.7: Administrative Costs
17-17.8: Notice Of Abatement Or Removal
17-17.9: Request For Hearing
17-17.10: Procedure For Hearing
17-17.11: Appeals
17-17: PARKING AND STORING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to abandon, park, store
or leave or permit the abandonment, parking, storing or leaving of any licensed
vehicle or part thereof which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative condition upon any private property or public property not
including highways within the city for a period in excess of ten (10) days
unless such vehicle or part thereof is completely enclosed within a building in
a lawful manner where it is not plainly visible from the street or other public
or private property, or unless such vehicle is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with a business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer or a junkyard. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-17.1: MISDEMEANOR:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to fail or refuse to
remove an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part thereof
or refuse to abate such nuisance when ordered to do so in accordance with the
abatement provisions of this article or state law where such state law is
applicable. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-17.2: PUBLIC NUISANCE; DEFINITIONS:
In addition to and in accordance with the determination made and the authority
granted by the state of California under section 22660 of the Vehicle Code to
remove abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof
as public nuisances, the city hereby makes the following findings and
declarations:
The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property not including highways
is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the value of private
property; to promote blight and deterioration; to invite plundering; to create
fire hazards; to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the
health and safety of minors; to create a harborage for rodents and insects; and
to be injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the
presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part
thereof, on private or public property not including highways, except as
expressly hereinafter permitted, is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this
article. As used in this article, the following terms shall mean:
   HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: This term does not include "highway".
   VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved or
drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-17.3: EXCEPTIONS:
This article shall not apply to:
   A.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property, or located behind a solid fence six feet (6') in
height or which is not plainly visible from a highway.
   B.   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked by a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or private
nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than chapter 10 (commencing
with section 22650) of division 11 of the Vehicle Code and this article. (Ord.
1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-17.4: SUPPLEMENT TO OTHER CODES, REGULATIONS:
This article is not exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicles within the city. It shall supplement and be in addition to
the other regulatory codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter
enacted by the city, the state or any other legal entity or agency having
jurisdiction. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-17.5: ENFORCEMENT:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this article shall be
administered and enforced by the city manager or his duly appointed agent. In
the enforcement of this article, such officer and his deputies may enter upon
private or public property to examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain
information as to the identity of a vehicle declared to be a nuisance pursuant
to this article. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-17.6: FRANCHISE:
When the city council has contracted with or granted a franchise to any person
or persons, such person or persons shall be authorized to enter upon private
property or public property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this article. (Ord. 1162 §
1, 12-5-1978)
17-17.7: ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS:
The city council has determined that the administrative costs shall be fixed by
resolution. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1167 § 1, 2-20-1979)
17-17.8: NOTICE OF ABATEMENT OR REMOVAL:
   A.   A ten (10) day notice of intention to abate and remove the vehicle or
parts thereof as a public nuisance shall be mailed by registered mail to the
owner of the land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in
such condition that identification numbers are not available to determine
ownership. The notices of intention shall be in substantially the following
forms:
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED, OR
INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
(Name and address of owner of the land)
As owner shown on the last equalized assessment roll of the land located at
(address), you are hereby notified that the undersigned pursuant to Chapter 17,
Section
17-17.2  of the Porterville City Code has determined that there exists upon
said land an (or parts of an) abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle registered to                          , license number
               , which constitutes a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions
of Chapter 17, Section
17-17.2  of the Porterville City Code.
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle
(or said parts of a vehicle) within 10 days from the date of mailing of this
notice, and upon your failure to do so the same will be abated and removed by
the City of Porterville and the costs thereof, together with administrative
costs, assessed to you as the owner of the land on which said vehicle (or said
parts of a vehicle) is located.
As owner of the land on which said vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) is
located, you are hereby notified that you may, within 10 days after the mailing
of this notice of intention, request a public hearing and if such a request is
not received by the City Manager within such 10-day period, the locally
designated officer shall have the authority to abate and remove said vehicle
(or said parts of a vehicle) as a public nuisance and assess the costs as
aforesaid without a public hearing. You may submit a sworn written statement
within such 10-day period denying responsibility for the presence of said
vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) on said land, with your reasons for
denial, and such statement shall be construed as a request for hearing at which
your presence is not required. You may appear in person at any hearing
requested by you or the owner of the vehicle or, in lieu thereof, may present a
sworn written statement as aforesaid in time for consideration at such hearing.
         Notice Mailed   
         /s/   
         City Manager or duly appointed
         agent
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE AN ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR
INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
(Name and address of last registered and/or legal owner of record of vehicle -
Notice should be given to both if different)
As last registered (and/or legal) owner of record of (description of vehicle -
Make, model, license, etc.), you are hereby notified that the undersigned,
pursuant to Chapter 17, Section
17-17.2  of the Porterville City Code, has determined that said vehicle (or
parts of a vehicle) exists as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle at (describe location on public or private property) and constitutes a
public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
17-17.2  of the Porterville City Code.
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle
(or said parts of a vehicle) within 10 days from the date of mailing of this
notice.
As registered (and/or legal) owner of record of said vehicle (or said parts of
a vehicle), you are hereby notified that you may, within 10 days after the
mailing of the notice of intention, request a public hearing and if such a
request is not received by the City Manager within such 10-day period, the
locally designated officer shall have the authority to abate and remove said
vehicle (or said parts of a vehicle) without a hearing.
         Notice Mailed
         /s/   
         City Manager Or duly appointed agent
   B.   Notice shall be given to the department of motor vehicles within five
(5) days after the date of removal identifying the vehicle or part thereof and
any evidence of registration available, including, but not limited to, the
registration card, certificates of ownership or license plates. (Ord. 1537 §
B58, 8-6-1996)
17-17.9: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
Upon request by the owner of the vehicle or owner of the land received by the
city manager within ten (10) days after the mailing of the notice of intention
to abate and remove, a public hearing shall be held by the city council on the
question of abatement and removal of the vehicle or parts thereof as an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and the assessment of
the administrative costs and the cost of removal of the vehicle or parts
thereof against the property on which it is located. Pursuant to Section 22661
(c) of the California Vehicle Code, the Council of the City of Porterville has
designated the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, or their designee, to preside
over the requested public hearing.
If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land within such ten (10)
day period, said statement shall be construed as a request for a hearing which
does not require his presence. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed, by
registered mail, at least ten (10) days before the hearing to the owner of the
land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such condition
that identification numbers are not available to determine ownership. If such a
request for hearing is not received within ten (10) days after mailing of the
notice of intention to abate and remove, the city shall have the authority to
abate and remove the vehicle or parts thereof as a public nuisance without
holding a public hearing. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978; Ord. 1899, 11-15-2022)
17-17.10: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING:
All hearings under this article shall be held before the chief of police, fire
chief, or their respective designee, who shall hear all facts and testimony he
deems pertinent. Said facts and testimony may include testimony on the
condition of the vehicle or parts thereof and the circumstances concerning its
location on the private property or public property.
The chief of police and fire chief shall not be limited by the technical rules
of evidence. The owner of the land may appear in person at the hearing, or
present a sworn written statement in time for consideration at the hearing, and
deny responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land, with his
reasons for such denial.
The chief of police or fire chief may impose such conditions and take such
action as they he deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the
purpose of this article. They may delay the time for the removal of the vehicle
or parts thereof if, in their opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the chief of police or fire chief may find that a
vehicle or parts thereof has been abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or is
inoperative on private or public property and order the same removed from the
property as a public nuisance and disposed of as hereinafter provided and
determine the administrative costs and the cost of removal to be charged
against the owner of the land. The order requiring removal shall include a
description of the vehicle or parts thereof and the correct identification
number of the vehicle, if available at the site.
If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the land
without the consent of the owner of the land and that he has not subsequently
acquiesced in its presence, the chief of police or fire chief shall not assess
the cost of administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon
which the vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect such costs from
such owner of the land.
If the owner of the land submits a sworn statement denying responsibility for
the presence of the vehicle on his land but does not appear, or if an
interested party makes a written presentation to the chief of police but does
not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision. (Ord. 1162 § 1,
12-5-1978; Ord. 1167 § 3, 2-20-1979; Ord. 1899, 11-15-2022)
17-17.11: APPEALS:
In the case of any contested hearing, the owner of the land contesting said
hearing shall have the right to appear before the city council and present
evidence relevant to the matters being contested. Said appeal shall be
conducted in the written communications portion of the council meeting and thus
must be preceded by written notification from the owner of the land to the
council. The findings of the council shall be final. (Ord. 1167 § 4, 2-20-1979)
ARTICLE XVIII. PENALTIES AND CONSTITUTIONALITY
SECTION:
17-18: Penalties
17-18.1: Constitutionality
17-18: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
an infraction. Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
17-18.1: CONSTITUTIONALITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The council hereby declares
that it would have passed this ordinance and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional. (Ord. 1162 § 1, 12-5-1978)
ARTICLES XIX – LXI
(Reserved)
ARTICLE LXII. PARKING UPON AND REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
17-62: Reserved
17-62.1: Reserved
17-62.2: Reserved
17-62.3: Parking On Private Property; Regulated
17-62.4: Parking On Private Property; Regulated; Sign
17-62: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1320, 8-21-1984)
17-62.1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1320, 8-21-1984)
17-62.2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1320, 8-21-1984)
17-62.3: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; REGULATED:
No person shall park or operate a vehicle upon a private driveway or upon
private property within the city of Porterville without the actual or implied
consent of the owner or person in lawful possession of such driveway or said
person's agents or employees; nor shall a person continue to park or operate a
vehicle upon such driveway or property, once said consent has been withdrawn.
(Ord. 1320 § A, 8-21-1984)
17-62.4: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; REGULATED; SIGN:
The sign to be posted, pursuant to California Vehicle Code section 22658(a)(1),
by the owner or person in lawful possession of any private property, desiring
to prohibit public parking and further desiring to have vehicles towed away at
the vehicle owner's expense, shall comply with the provisions of Vehicle Code
section 22658(a)(1) and shall further display, in plain view, at all entrances
to the property, a sign at least seventeen inches (17") in height and twenty
two inches (22") in width, with letters not less than one inch (1") in height
of a "C-stroke" width. The content of the sign shall be in compliance with the
requirements of Vehicle Code section 22658(a)(1). (Ord. 1537 § B59, 8-6-1996)
CHAPTER 18
OFFENSES, MISCELLANEOUS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
18-0: Attachment Of Wires, Cables, Devices Or Equipment To Cable Antenna
Television System
18-1: Reserved
18-2: Public Nudity
18-2.1: Reserved
18-3: Gambling; Mechanical Machines And Devices
18-4: Reserved
18-5: Interference With Fire Department
18-6: Reserved
18-6.1: Unlawful Possession, Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages
18-7: Meetings, Assemblies, And Parades On Public Property; Permit Required
18-7.1: Parades; Application And Permit Procedure
18-7.2: Meeting Or Assembly; Application And Permit Procedure
18-7.3: Meeting, Assembly Or Parade Considerations Of Police Chief
18-7.4: Procedure For Appeal Of Administrative Decisions
18-7.5: Penalty For Violation Of Sections 18-7 Through 18-7.3
18-8: Reserved
18-8.1: Reserved
18-8.2: Sale Of Personal Property From Residential Premises
18-9: Radios, Record Players Disturbing Peace In Neighborhood
18-10: Radios, Record Players Disturbing Peace In Neighborhood; Interference
With Radio Reception
18-11: Radios, Record Players Disturbing Peace In Neighborhood; Interference
With Radio Reception; Not Applicable To Stations And Public Utilities
18-12: Reserved
18-13: Reserved
18-14: Loudspeakers, Outside Amplifiers; Permit Required
18-15: Reserved
18-16: Waterways; Obstruction Generally
18-17: Waterways; Obstructions Of Gutters
18-17.1: Waterways; Porter Slough Declared Nuisance Under Certain Conditions;
Abatement
18-18: Waterways; Open Water Ditches; Prohibited Generally; Procedure For
Abatement
18-19: Waterways; Open Water Ditches; Violation Of Preceding Section
18-20: Reserved
18-21: Reserved
18-22: Discharging Of Firearms; Exception
18-23: Alarm Systems
18-24: Alcoholic Beverages In Parks
18-25: Parking Or Storing Of Vehicles On Lawns
18-26: Neglect Of Real Property
18-27: Reserved
18-28: Keeping Of Bees
18-0: ATTACHMENT OF WIRES, CABLES, DEVICES OR EQUIPMENT TO CABLE ANTENNA
TELEVISION SYSTEM:
   A.   The attachment of any wires, cables, devices or equipment to any cable
antenna television system within the city of Porterville for the purpose of
receiving television signals thereby without the knowledge of the owner and
with intent to evade payment therefor is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Any person who, with intent to injure or defraud, attaches any wires,
cables, devices or equipment to any community antenna television system for the
purpose of receiving television signals thereby without the knowledge of the
owner and with intent to evade payment therefor, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail, or city
jail, not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1011 §§ 1, 2, 12-7-1971)
18-1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1706 § 1, 10-3-2006)
18-2: PUBLIC NUDITY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally appear in a
public place in a state of nudity. "Nudity or state of nudity" means: a) the
appearance or display of the human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or b) a state of dress
which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human buttock, anus, male or female
genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female breast. "Public place"
means any location frequented by the public, or where the public is likely to
be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected to be observed by
members of the public. Public places include, but are not limited to, streets,
sidewalks, parks, business and commercial establishments (whether for profit or
not for profit, whether open to the public at large, or whether entrance is
limited by a cover charge or membership requirement), hotels, motels,
restaurants, nightclubs, country clubs, cabarets, and/or meeting facilities.
Premises, or portions thereof, such as hotel rooms, used solely as a private
residence, whether permanent or temporary in nature, shall not be deemed to be
a public place. This section shall not apply to children under ten (10) years
of age. Furthermore, this section shall not apply to a person appearing in a
state of nudity in a modeling class operated pursuant to section
15-61 of this code. (Ord. 1597 § 1, 5-1-2001)
18-2.1: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1384 § 1, 8-4-1987)
18-3: GAMBLING; MECHANICAL MACHINES AND DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, lessee, manager,
employee, agent or servant, to conduct, manage, carry on, maintain or operate,
or for any person to engage in, operate or play, any mechanical machine,
contrivance, appliance or device, in any manner contrary to applicable
provisions of the state Penal Code, section 330 et seq. (Ord. Code § 6141; Ord.
655 § 2; Ord. 1226, 1-20-1981; Ord. 1484, 1-5-1993)
18-4: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1484, 1-5-1993)
18-5: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with any operation
or work of the fire department while the fire department is engaged in
extinguishing a fire. (Ord. Code § 9523)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  12-1.11 of this code.
18-6: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
18-6.1: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Possession In Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any person within
the city of Porterville to possess any alcoholic beverage in any public place,
or transport any alcoholic beverage upon any public street, sidewalk,
pedestrian mall, alleyway, or thoroughfare where such alcoholic beverage is in
a receptacle which has been opened, or the seal of which has been broken, or
the contents of which have been partially removed.
   B.   Possession Of Opened Container On Parking Lot: It shall be unlawful for
any person within the city of Porterville to possess any alcoholic beverage
where such alcoholic beverage is in a receptacle which has been opened, or the
seal of which has been broken, or the contents of which have been partially
removed, on any parking lot within the city of Porterville associated with or
under the control of any business or other premises open to the public during
the ordinary course of business of such business or premises where such parking
lot has immediate access to a public street.
   C.   Alcoholic Beverages Within Vehicle: It shall be unlawful for the
registered owner of any vehicle, or the driver, if the registered owner is not
then present in the vehicle, to keep in a motor vehicle when such motor vehicle
is located in any area enumerated in subsections A and B of this section, any
bottle, can, or other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has
been opened, or a seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially
removed, unless such container is kept in the trunk of such vehicle, or kept in
some other area of the vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or
passengers, if such vehicle is not equipped with a trunk. A utility compartment
or glove compartment shall be deemed to be within the area occupied by the
driver and passengers. This subsection shall, however, not apply to living
quarters of a house car or camper.
   D.   Definition Of Alcoholic Beverage: The definition of "alcoholic
beverage" as used herein shall include alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer,
and every liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which
contains one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume, and which
is fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined
with other substances.
   E.   Effect Of Provisions: Subsections A through D of this section shall not
be deemed to make punishable any act or acts which are prohibited by any
statute of the state of California.
   F.   Severability: Should any portion of this section be held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise legally invalid, such determination shall not
affect the validity of the remainder hereof, which shall remain in full force
and effect.
   G.   Public Place; Parks Excluded: For the purposes of this section, the
definition of "public place" shall not include Murry park, Veterans' park, or
Zalud park within the city limits of the city of Porterville.
   H.   Violation An Infraction: Any violation of this section is specifically
deemed to be an infraction.
   I.   Permit Procedure:
      1.   The provisions of subsection A of this section may be waived upon
the issuance of a permit issued by the chief of police.
      2.   Permits shall only be issued to organized groups such as service
clubs, or other organized, well established groups.
      3.   Application shall be made through the chief of police twenty (20)
days in advance of the date for which the permit is desired. The application
for such permit shall be made in writing on a form approved by the chief of
police. In order that adequate arrangements may be made for the proper policing
of the event, the application shall contain the following information:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the person representing the
organization for which the permit is requested.
         b.   The name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization and the authorized head of such organization.
         c.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
in charge of the event and be responsible for enforcing the provisions of the
permit.
         d.   The purpose of the event for which the permit is requested.
         e.   The date and time when the event is to be conducted and the
expected number of persons to be in attendance.
      4.   The chief of police may impose any reasonable restrictions or
conditions to granting said permit, as well as denying said permit. Said
permits are to be granted only if the benefit to the general community in
granting the permit is not outweighed by the resulting endangerment to the
public health, safety or welfare. The granting of said permit is a privilege
and not a right, inasmuch as this activity is generally prohibited. (Ord. 1152
§§ A–H, 8-15-1978; Ord. 1261, 4-20-1982; Ord. 1329 § A, 5-7-1985; Ord. 1537 §
B60, 8-6-1996)
18-7: MEETINGS, ASSEMBLIES, AND PARADES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct a meeting, assembly or parade in or upon the public
streets, sidewalks, highways or parks of the city of Porterville, or
participate in any such meeting, assembly or parade unless and until a permit
to conduct such meeting, assembly, or parade has been obtained from the chief
of police, or, as hereinafter provided, from the council of said city of
Porterville. (Ord. Code § 6161.1; Ord. 927 § 1, 11-5-1968)
18-7.1: PARADES; APPLICATION AND PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Any person desirous of conducting a parade shall apply to the chief of police
for a permit at least twenty (20) days in advance of the proposed parade. The
application for such permit shall be made in writing on a form approved by the
chief of police. In order that adequate arrangements may be made for the proper
policing of the parade, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   The name, address and telephone number of the person requesting the
permit. If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by an
organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and of the authorized head of such organization.
   B.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairman and will be responsible for its conduct.
   C.   The purpose of the parade.
   D.   The date when the parade is to be conducted.
   E.   The hours when the parade will start and terminate.
   F.   The route of the parade.
   G.   The approximate number of persons who, and the number and kind of
vehicles and animals which will constitute the parade.
   H.   The location of the assembly area of the parade.
   I.   The location of the dispersal area of the parade.
   J.   The plans for the assembly and dispersal of the parade, including the
times thereof.
   K.   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion
of the streets proposed to be traversed.
   L.   If the dispersal area of the parade is located in another jurisdiction,
the location of such dispersal area, and if a parade permit is required but has
not been issued by such other jurisdiction, an alternate route and alternate
dispersal area in the city of Porterville.
   M.   Such other information as the chief of police may reasonably require.
If there shall be no prior application for a parade at said time and place, the
chief of police shall issue a permit granting the said application, subject to
the provisions of section
18-7.3 of this article. In the event that there shall be a prior application
for a parade to be held at said time, the chief of police may deny the permit
therefor. The applicant for the parade permit shall be notified in writing of
the action of the chief of police in granting or denying the permit at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the proposed parade. In the event the
application is denied, the written notice of such denial shall set forth the
reasons therefor. (Ord. 927 § 1, 11-5-1968)
18-7.2: MEETING OR ASSEMBLY; APPLICATION AND PERMIT PROCEDURE:
Applications may be made by any person to hold a meeting or assembly, and the
application for such meeting or assembly must be filed with the chief of police
at least four (4) days in advance of the date of the proposed meeting or
assembly, specifying the time and place thereof, the name of the person or
organization desiring the permit and such other information as may be required
by the chief of police in order to enable him to make adequate arrangements, as
circumstances may require, for the proper policing of the proposed meeting or
assembly.
The chief of police shall forthwith issue a permit granting the said
application unless a prior application for the said time and place shall have
been made, in which event another time and place may be selected, and upon the
selection of said alternative time and place by the applicant, the chief of
police shall forthwith grant a permit therefor, subject to the provisions of
section
18-7.3 of this article. (Ord. 927 § 1, 11-5-1968)
18-7.3: MEETING, ASSEMBLY OR PARADE CONSIDERATIONS OF POLICE CHIEF:
The said chief of police may refuse a permit for either a meeting, assembly or
parade when in his judgment the conditions of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
or the effect upon stores, offices and other places of business, or upon
residents or hospitals, churches, institutions reserved for the sick, schools
or educational institutions in the vicinity, all considered in relation to the
safety, comfort and convenience of the public generally, shall so warrant. In
making his determination the chief of police shall confer with the city manager
and is authorized to suggest or require alternative routes, locations or times
for any meeting, assembly or parade if in his judgment the provisions of this
section so require. (Ord. 927 § 1, 11-5-1968)
18-7.4: PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:
Upon a denial by the chief of police of an application made in pursuance of
section
18-7.1 or
18-7.2 of this article, the applicant may appeal from the determination of the
chief of police within two (2) days thereafter to the city council of the city
of Porterville by filing his said application with the clerk of said city who
shall set said appeal for hearing by the council at its next meeting. Upon such
appeal the said council may reverse, affirm or modify in any regard the
determination of the chief of police. To carry out the judgment of said council
upon appeal, the chief of police shall be directed to act in conformity with
the judgment of the council. (Ord. 927 § 1, 11-5-1968)
18-7.5: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SECTIONS 18-7 THROUGH 18-7.3:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to fail to
comply with sections
18-7,
18-7.1,
18-7.2 and
18-7.3 of this article.
Any person violating any provision or failing to comply with any provision of
said sections is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any person convicted of a misdemeanor for violating any provisions or failing
to comply with said sections shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the county or city jail
not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 927
§ 2, 11-5-1968)
18-8: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1316, 8-21-1984)
18-8.1: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1316, 8-21-1984)
18-8.2: SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM RESIDENTIAL PREMISES:
   A.   Residential Sales Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sale of personal property to the
general public by means of a "garage" sale, "patio" sale, "yard" sale, or other
sale similarly conducted on any residentially zoned premises, except as
permitted in this section or authorized by chapter 21 of this code, or other
law.
   B.   Time And Place Of Sale: Only two (2) such sales may be conducted at a
particular place in any six (6) month period. No sale shall continue more than
three (3) days. Sales shall be conducted between the hours of eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. only.
   C.   Court Sales: This section shall not apply to sales conducted pursuant
to process or order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1147
§§ 1–4, 7-18-1978; Ord. 1820, 12-16-2014)
18-9: RADIOS, RECORD PLAYERS DISTURBING PEACE IN NEIGHBORHOOD:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to use or operate or cause
to be operated or to play any radio, phonograph, jukebox, record player,
loudspeaker, musical instrument, mechanical device, machine, apparatus, or
instrument for intensification or amplification of the human voice or any sound
or noise in a manner so loud as to be calculated to disturb the peace and good
order of the neighborhood or sleep of ordinary persons in nearby residences or
so loud as to unreasonably disturb and interfere with the peace and comfort of
the occupants of nearby residences.
The operation of any such instrument, phonograph, jukebox, machine or device in
such manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of one hundred feet (100')
from the building, structure, vehicle, or place in which, or on which it is
situated or located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section. (Ord. Code § 6311)
18-10: RADIOS, RECORD PLAYERS DISTURBING PEACE IN NEIGHBORHOOD; INTERFERENCE
WITH RADIO RECEPTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate in the city any device,
appliance, equipment or apparatus, the operation of which will cause
interference with radio or other wireless receiving apparatus; provided, that a
person duly licensed to practice medicine, osteopathy, chiropractic or
dentistry by the state may, in the course of and when required in the practice
of his profession, operate or cause to be operated under his own direct
supervision any such device, appliance, equipment or apparatus when and only
when necessary for the giving of treatments or performing other necessary
functions in the due course of his profession; provided further, that all
reasonable methods for the prevention of interference with radio or other
wireless receiving apparatus is attached or applied to such device, appliance,
equipment, or apparatus, including the complete screening of the room in which
the offending apparatus is operated, when such screening is required in order
to avoid such interference. (Ord. Code § 6321.1)
18-11: RADIOS, RECORD PLAYERS DISTURBING PEACE IN NEIGHBORHOOD; INTERFERENCE
WITH RADIO RECEPTION; NOT APPLICABLE TO STATIONS AND PUBLIC UTILITIES:
The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply to radio stations,
either broadcasting, commercial or amateur, licensed by the federal government,
or which are engaged in interstate communications, nor to public utilities
under the supervision of the state railway commission. (Ord. Code § 6321.2)
18-12: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
18-13: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
18-14: LOUDSPEAKERS, OUTSIDE AMPLIFIERS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, operate, connect, or suffer or
permit to be maintained, operated, or connected any loudspeaker or sound
amplifier in such a manner as to cause any sound to be projected outside of any
building or out of doors in any part of the city, except as may be necessary to
amplify sound for the proper presentation of moving picture shows, or
exhibiting for the convenient hearing of patrons within the building or
enclosure in which the show or exhibition is given, without having first
procured a permit from the chief of police, which permit shall be granted at
the will of the chief of police upon application in writing therefor, but which
permit, when granted, shall be revocable by the city council whenever any such
loudspeaker or sound amplifier shall by the council be deemed objectionable,
and any such permit may be so revoked with or without notice, or with or
without a formal hearing, at the option of the council, and in the event of the
revocation of any such permit, the same shall not be renewed, except upon
application as the first instance. (Ord. Code § 6312)
18-15: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
18-16: WATERWAYS; OBSTRUCTION GENERALLY:
It shall be unlawful to deposit, erect or maintain in any natural watercourse,
or creek or in any waterway, within the city, anything which may obstruct the
free flow of water therein. (Ord. Code § 3221.1)
18-17: WATERWAYS; OBSTRUCTIONS OF GUTTERS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct any gutter so as to prevent the free flow of
water therein. Driveways from the street to private premises shall be so
constructed as not to prevent the free flow of water in the gutters of the
street. (Ord. Code § 3221.2)
18-17.1: WATERWAYS; PORTER SLOUGH DECLARED NUISANCE UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS;
ABATEMENT:
At those times when the Porter Slough is not in a clean, debris free and weed
free condition, said slough constitutes a menace and hazard to the persons and
property of the citizens of the city of Porterville. When said slough is not in
a clean, debris free and weed free condition, the condition of said slough
constitutes a nuisance, and the city of Porterville, acting through its duly
authorized representatives, is hereby authorized to abate said nuisance. (Ord.
783, 2-18-1964)
18-18: WATERWAYS; OPEN WATER DITCHES; PROHIBITED GENERALLY; PROCEDURE FOR
ABATEMENT:
The existence, maintenance or use of any open water ditch or water ditches on
any alley, street or public place within the city by any person is dangerous to
the public of the city, and an obstruction to the alleys, streets and public
places on which such water ditch or ditches exist, is unlawful and a
misdemeanor and is hereby declared a public nuisance, and may be abated by the
city in a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction, or by a criminal
action for a violation of this section against such person owning, using and
maintaining such open water ditch or water ditches within the city. When a
civil action is brought in such case it shall be to compel such person owning,
using or maintaining such open water ditch or water ditches within the city to
change the manner or mode of the use of water or the distribution thereof, by
requiring such person to abolish such water ditch or water ditches upon any
street, alley or public place where the same exists, and instead thereof to
require such person to pipe such water underground, on such alleys, streets or
public places within the city, or by the construction of any other suitable or
reasonable conduit to be placed under the ground on such alleys, streets or
public places for the use and distribution of such water, after written notice
of fifteen (15) days served upon such person to change the manner or mode of
the use of such water. (Ord. Code § 3231)
18-19: WATERWAYS; OPEN WATER DITCHES; VIOLATION OF PRECEDING SECTION:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of section
18-18 of this article or who shall after written notice by the city or its duly
authorized officers thereto fail or neglect to comply with the provisions or
requirements of such section within fifteen (15) days after a written notice
has been served upon him to change the manner of the use of water or mode of
distribution thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. Code § 3231.1)
18-20: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
18-21: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
18-22: DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS; EXCEPTION:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or discharge
any rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver, firearm, deadly weapon, air gun, air
rifle, air pistol, pellet gun, pellet pistol or pellet revolver, paintball gun
or marker, or any other form of deadly weapon in the city; provided, however,
that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any police officer in
the performance of his official duties. (Ord. Code § 5313; Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-
1996; Ord. 1561 § 1, 7-21-1998; Ord. 1609, 4-2-2002)
18-23: ALARM SYSTEMS:
   A.   Purpose: The city hereby finds and determines that the regulation of
alarm systems and the control of false alarms is necessary to promote the
health, welfare and safety of the people in that some users have alarm systems
which either mechanically malfunction or are not operated properly by their
users, causing an increase in false alarm reports, thereby resulting in
unnecessary costs and expense to the city and constituting a hazard to the
safety of police officers and the public in general.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment and devices arranged to signal the
presence of a hazard requiring attention and to which police are "called upon"
to respond.
   CITY: The city of Porterville.
   FALSE ALARM: An alarm signal, either silent or audible, necessitating
response by the police department where an emergency situation for which the
alarm system was designed or used does not exist.
      1.   The activation of an audible alarm system for one second or less
shall not be deemed a false alarm.
      2.   In those situations where an alarm is reported, then canceled prior
to the arrival of the police department by the alarm company operator or the
person(s) responsible for the premises, shall not be considered a false alarm.
   PERSON: Shall mean and include any natural person, partnership, corporation,
unincorporated association, or other business entity.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT AND POLICE CHIEF: The police department and police chief,
respectively, of the city.
   PREMISES: Any building or structure identified by a numerical or lettered
address where an alarm system is installed, or group of units within one
building or structure with one alarm system.
   C.   Registration Of Alarm Company Operators: It shall be unlawful for any
person required to be registered as an alarm company operator by the California
alarm company act to engage in the business of alarm company operator within
the city without first filing copy of such state license with the police
department.
   D.   Registration Of Alarm Agents: It shall be unlawful for any person
required to be registered as an alarm agent by the California alarm company act
to act as an alarm agent within the city without first registering his name and
filing a copy of his state identification card with the police department.
   E.   Alarm System Regulations:
      1.   Automatic Deactivation: Every audible alarm system shall be equipped
with a device which will automatically deactivate the alarm system not more
than thirty (30) minutes after the alarm system is activated.
      2.   Prohibited Sound: No alarm system shall be installed or used which
emits a sound outside the premises which is similar to that of an emergency
vehicle siren or a civil defense warning system.
      3.   Notification: An alarm system operator shall cause the police
department to be notified prior to any service, test, repair, maintenance,
alteration, or installation of an alarm system which might produce a false
alarm.
      4.   Repairs: After any false alarm caused by a malfunction of an alarm
system, the person operating such system shall cause the alarm system to be
repaired to eliminate the malfunction before the reactivation of the alarm
system.
      5.   Power Supply: Alarm systems shall be supplied with an
uninterruptible power supply in such a manner that the failure or interruption
of normal utility electricity will not activate the alarm system. The power
supply must be capable of at least four (4) hours of operation.
      6.   Prohibited Systems: No person shall have installed any system which,
when activated, automatically dials the police department with a prerecorded
message of any type.
   F.   Confidentiality: Information as to the presence or absence or type or
operation of any alarm system coming into the possession of the chief of
police, any of his subordinates, or any other city employee in the course of
their official duties shall be held in strictest confidence and shall not be
disclosed other than to such public officials who might require such
information in the performance of their official duties.
   G.   False Alarm Service Fee: Any person who maintains or has an alarm which
has caused any signal, message, or alarm to be transmitted to the police
department, either by direct telephone or other direct communication, or by
communication from an alarm agent, or an alarm business, or by a person
responding to an audible alarm, and which is a false alarm, shall pay a false
alarm service fee to the city as established by resolution of the city council;
provided that the false alarm was the third or subsequent such alarm in the
immediately preceding six (6) calendar months.
      1.   Late Payment Of False Alarm Service Fee: In the event a false alarm
service fee is levied and such fee is not paid within thirty (30) calendar
days, an additional charge shall be applied to the fee provided under this
subsection.
      2.   City Fees Not Related To Any Private Alarm Service Fees: False alarm
service fees are levied to deter incidences of false alarms. They have no
relationship to any fees which may or may not be charged by any alarm company
operators for services they may perform.
   H.   Forgiveness Of False Alarm Service Fee: When a person comes under the
provisions of subsection G of this section due to "acts of God" or mechanical
malfunction of the alarm system and repair service was not immediately
available to correct the malfunction and the alarm system has subsequently been
repaired, the chief of police may forgive the false alarm service fee upon
presentation of adequate documentation of those facts from a licensed repair
organization.
   I.   Nonresponse By Police Department: When any person maintains, or has an
alarm system, or operates an alarm system in such a manner which causes any
signal, message, or alarm to be transmitted to the police department, either by
direct telephone or other direct communication, or by communication from an
alarm agent, or an alarm business, or by a person responding to an audible
alarm, and which is a false alarm twelve (12) or more times in any three (3)
consecutive calendar months, that premises may be placed on a nonresponse list
by the chief of police. Failure to pay any false alarm service fee for a period
of over thirty (30) days may result in the premises being placed on a
nonresponse list by the chief of police. The person responsible for the
premises shall be notified by the chief of police via United States mail that
the premises has been placed on the nonresponse list. While a premises is
listed on that nonresponse list, officers of the police department will not
respond to alarm calls at the premises.
      1.   Removal From Nonresponse List: The chief of police shall remove any
premises from the nonresponse list upon adequate documentation of proper
repairs to the alarm system or training of the persons operating the alarm
system so that the high incidence of false alarms will not occur.
      2.   Payment Of Fees: The chief of police shall remove any premises from
the nonresponse list which was placed there for nonpayment of fees upon proof
that such fees and appropriate penalty fees have been paid.
   J.   Limitation On Liability: The city or its police department, or any
employee thereof, is under no obligation or duty to any person or premises by
reason of any provision of this section, or the exercise of any privilege by
any person or premises hereunder, including, but not limited to, any delay in
transmission of an alarm message to any emergency unit, or damage caused by
delay in responding to any alarm by any city officer, employee, or agent.
   K.   Criminal Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1023 § A, 6-20-1972; Ord. 1291 § A, 12-20-1983;
Ord. 1317, 8-7-1984; Ord. 1403 §§ A–K, 7-5-1988)
18-24: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PARKS 1 :
   A.   Regulated: It shall be unlawful for any person at Murry park, Veterans'
park, Olivewood park, Noon Lion's park, North park, Zalud park or Hayes field
to possess or consume any alcoholic beverages unless the person has a valid
permit and is in the immediate vicinity of the event for which the permit was
issued.
   B.   Permit: A permit may be obtained from the city to consume alcoholic
beverages at the aforementioned city parks. The party requesting such permit
shall apply to the director of parks and leisure services for such permit, on a
form specified by that department, for any person or group activity, no less
than five (5) working days prior to the requested date.
   C.   Sales At City Facilities: Except as provided in subsection D of this
section, no person shall be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages at any city
facilities for consumption on such city facilities, except as provided herein:
      1.   Any person seeking to sell alcoholic beverages must first obtain:
         a.   An on-sale license issued by the California department of
alcoholic beverage control, and
         b.   A civic event permit approved by the city council pursuant to
section 15-20 of this code.
      2.   Sales of alcoholic beverages shall only be permitted at the
following city facilities:
         a.   Municipal ballpark;
         b.   Porterville municipal airport.
   D.   Exceptions; Licensed And Leased Facilities: Notwithstanding subsection
C of this section, nothing herein shall be construed or interpreted to impair
any contract, license or lease for the use of city facilities, whether or not
such contract, license or lease expressly permits the on site sale of alcoholic
beverages now in place, or hereinafter entered into, with the city.
   E.   Penalty For Violation Of Section: Any person violating any provision or
failing to comply with any provisions of the above subsections is guilty of an
infraction.
   F.   Definition: The definition of "alcoholic beverage" as used herein shall
include alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, and liquid or solid containing alcohol,
spirits, wine or beer, and which contains one-half of one percent (0.5%) or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes whether alone
or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances. (Ord. 1079 § A, 9-2-
1975; Ord. 1217 §§ A–D, 10-28-1980; Ord. 1453 § A, 9-17-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 19, "Parks", of this code.
18-25: PARKING OR STORING OF VEHICLES ON LAWNS:
   A.   Purpose/Findings: The parking or storing of vehicles on residential
area lawns is unsightly, poses a potential threat to ground water quality, and
constitutes a public nuisance.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section:
   DRIVEWAY: A passageway composed of concrete or asphalt that connects to a
public street or legal right of way, controlled by the city of Porterville,
allowing vehicles to access a garage, carport, or other legal parking space.
   IMPROVED AREA: A section of the lot that has been altered and defined by
concrete, asphalt, or gravel, with a positive boundary, for the means of
providing a parking space for a vehicle. The improved area must be entered via
a driveway or curb cut, except where adjacent to a paved street where there is
no curb.
   PARK OR STORE: The parking or storing of a vehicle for any period of time.
   C.   Prohibition:
      1.   The parking of vehicles is prohibited on any front yard setback
within a residentially zoned area, except in an area defined as a "driveway" or
"improved area". This prohibition shall not apply to properties that do not
have a "driveway" or "improved area" as defined in this section.
      2.   The parking or storing of vehicles on blocks, jacks, or stands,
regardless of whether said vehicle is on a nondriveway area or a driveway or
improved area, is prohibited. To the extent said vehicles are abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or in an inoperative condition, chapter 17, article XVII,
of this code shall apply. (Ord. 1741, 7-1-2008)
18-26: NEGLECT OF REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Purpose: The city hereby finds and determines that the regulation of
all real property, which is neglected, is necessary to promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the people in that neglected real properties can
have a detrimental effect upon surrounding property values and upon the
attitude, mentality, and productivity of the general public.
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section only, the following
definitions shall apply:
   NEGLECTED: The maintenance (or lack thereof) of any real property in such a
manner as to cause or allow the real property to become defective, unsightly,
or in such other condition of deterioration or disrepair. This includes, but is
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Any improvement on the real property, including, but not limited to,
buildings, garages, carports, or roofs or gutters when the condition of the
patio, curtilage, stucco, siding, or other exterior coating has become so
deteriorated as to permit decay, weathered appearance, peeling paint, excessive
inspection, cracking, broken windows, or warping, rendering the building
unsightly and in a state of disrepair.
      2.   Buildings or structures, which are abandoned, boarded up, partially
destroyed, or left in a state of partial construction or repair for an
unreasonable time; a period of ninety (90) days shall serve as the standard in
determining whether an unreasonable time has elapsed.
      3.   Abandoned or broken equipment or machinery, visible from a public
street or sidewalk, or from adjoining property unless separated by a fence at
the height otherwise required pursuant to city regulations and standards.
      4.   Property with excessive trash and debris, visible from a public
street or sidewalk, or from adjoining property unless separated by a fence at
the height otherwise required pursuant to city regulations and standards.
      5.   Storage of household items customarily used inside a dwelling area
including, but not limited to, appliances and furniture in any front yard
setback or driveway area.
      6.   Storage or placement of equipment, construction materials or
machinery upon public property or public right of way except during necessary
work or repair.
      7.   The maintenance of real property so out of harmony or conformity
with the adjacent or surrounding properties as to cause diminution of the
enjoyment, use, or value of such properties.
   REAL PROPERTY: All land and accompanying structures, whether attached to the
land or mobile, for commercial or residential use.
   C.   Failure To Properly Maintain Property: Neglect of "real property", as
defined by this section, shall result in a detailed notice from the city
requiring conformity to this section within ninety (90) days. Failure to
conform to the requirements of this section within ninety (90) days may result
in a declaration by council of the real property as a public nuisance and
summary abatement as provided in section 1-10 of this code, civil injunction,
and/or any other remedies permitted by law. To the extent permitted by law, the
city shall be entitled to recover all costs for abatement of the nuisance, any
costs incurred by the city in remedying any violation of this section, and any
and all litigation and enforcement costs, including reasonable attorney fees
and costs related to any civil enforcement action. (Ord. 1682 § 1, 11-1-2005)
18-27: RESERVED:
(Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
18-28: KEEPING OF BEES:
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
bring, have, keep or maintain, within the city, at any time from sunrise to
sunset in any year, any swarm or swarms, colony or colonies of honeybees.
   B.   Public Nuisance: Any swarm or swarms, colony or colonies of honeybees
so brought, had, kept or maintained within the city shall be and constitute a
public nuisance; and it is hereby made the duty of the police officers of the
city to abate any such nuisance by destroying any such bees, or by removing or
causing the same to be removed from the city.
   C.   Exemption: Placement of bees on property that has crops dependent upon
bee pollination for crop production shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section. Only the number of bees reasonably necessary to pollinate the crops
located on the subject property during the time pollination is required shall
be so exempt. (Ord. 1351 §§ 1, 3, 4, 6-17-1986)
ARTICLE II. GRAFFITI
SECTION:
18-31: Purpose And Intent
18-32: Definitions
18-33: Graffiti Prohibited
18-34: Recovery Of Costs And Obligation For Expense
18-35: Recovery Of Summary Abatement Costs; Lien
18-36: Recovery Of Costs; Special Assessment
18-37: Civil Liability
18-38: Criminal Penalties
18-39: Nuisance
18-40: Sale Of Aerosol Paint Containers Or Wide Tipped Marker Pens To Minors
18-41: Possession By Minors
18-42: Restitution And Community Service
18-43: Alternatives
18-44: Evidentiary Use
18-45: Severability
18-31: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The city council hereby finds and determines that the writing,
spraying, scratching, etching or otherwise affixing graffiti or other inscribed
materials on public or privately owned real or personal property without the
consent or permission of the owner thereof is a public nuisance and obnoxious,
as well as injurious to the public health, safety and welfare, for the
following reasons:
      1.   Such markings are often placed on said structures by gangs to
indicate illicit control over certain locations or areas for purposes of
criminal activity.
      2.   Such markings directly and indirectly encourage gang warfare,
including drive-by shootings, and other acts of violence which result in
injuries and fatalities to gang members and innocent bystanders, alike.
      3.   Such markings are destructive to publicly and privately owned
property and cause depreciation in the value of said property and depreciation
in the value of adjacent and surrounding properties as well.
      4.   Such markings result in blight and deterioration of property and
business values in the community and lead to economic loss and the destruction
of property in general.
   B.   The purpose and intent of the city council, through the adoption of
this chapter, are to protect public and private property from acts of vandalism
and defacement. It is the further intent of the city council, through the
adoption of this chapter, to provide notice to all those who disregard the
property rights of others, that the law enforcement agencies of the city will
strictly enforce the law and vigorously prosecute and hold accountable those
persons engaging in violations of this article. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-32: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
   CITY: The city of Porterville.
   GRAFFITI: Is defined as, but not limited to, an unauthorized inscription,
word, figure, design, writing, or picture which is marked, etched, scratched,
drawn, painted, pasted or otherwise affixed upon any public property or upon
any structure, wall, fence, sidewalk, sign, public utility box, or any
structural component of any building, bridge, structure or any facility in
public view to any person utilizing any public street in the city, including,
but not limited to, any roadway, parkway, sidewalk, or alley, to the extent the
same was not authorized in advance by the owner thereof, or despite advance
authorization is otherwise deemed by the city council to be a public nuisance.
   PERSON: A domestic or foreign corporation, an association, a syndicate, a
joint stock corporation, a partnership of any kind, a club, business or common
law trust, a society or an individual.
   REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI: Includes the painting over of graffiti or the physical
removal of graffiti by other means.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT: A parent, legal guardian, or person having legal
responsibility for an unemancipated individual under the age of eighteen (18).
   SALE: The transfer, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of title to
property for consideration or the serving, supplying, or furnishing for a
consideration of any property. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-33: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
   A.   Writings Prohibited: No person shall place graffiti or other writings
upon any public or privately owned tree, rock, or structure including, but not
limited to, buildings, walls, fences, poles and signs, flood control channels,
concrete, paving, etc., located within the city.
   B.   Allowing Graffiti To Remain On Property: No person owning or otherwise
in control of any real property within the city shall permit or allow any
graffiti to be placed upon or remain on any structure located on such property.
   C.   Declaration Of Nuisance: The city council declares and finds graffiti
to be a nuisance subject to abatement according to the provisions and
procedures herein contained and as authorized by California Government Code
section 38773 et seq.
   D.   Right Of City To Remove:
      1.   Property Owner Responsible: Property owners or persons in control of
the property are required to remove or paint over graffiti within twenty four
(24) hours of the application of the graffiti. The city may, at its expense,
remove or paint over graffiti twenty four (24) hours after posting notice on
the property to remove or paint over the graffiti with regard to public
structures or areas, or structures or areas that are visible from major city
arterials. The city may, at its expense, remove or paint over graffiti in all
other areas forty eight (48) hours after posting notice on the property to
remove or paint over the graffiti. The city shall post a consent form, as
described below, along with said notice and will make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner or person in control of the property and obtain consent prior
to or at the time of removal. City funds may be used to remove graffiti and
other similar inscribed material from publicly or privately owned permanent
structures located on publicly or privately owned real property within the
city.
      2.   Use Of City Funds For Removal: Within the limits set forth in this
section, use of city funds as authorized in this section is limited to the
following cases:
         a.   Sufficient funds have been budgeted and remain unencumbered for
such purpose.
         b.   The city manager or the designee of the city manager approves
each proposed use of city funds for such purpose.
         c.   The written consent of the owner of or person responsible for the
affected structures, public or private, is obtained in each instance, except
when the owner or person responsible for the property refuses to consent or
fails to consent pursuant to subsection D3 of this section. The consent shall
be a form approved by the city attorney and shall:
            (1)   Authorize entry of city employees and contractors on the
affected property to accomplish the removal of the material;
            (2)   Assign to the city any cause or causes of action which the
owner may have against any person or persons who defaced the property with
graffiti; and
            (3)   Hold the city, its officers, employees and contractors
harmless from all liability arising out of the entry on the property or the
work of removing the material.
         d.   City funds shall be used only to remove the inscribed material
itself and may not be used for painting or repairing of any more extensive
area.
         e.   In any instance where the owner or person in control of the
affected property ("responsible party") caused, materially contributed to, or
voluntarily consented to the inscription, or in any case where the responsible
party refuses to permit the city onto the premises in order to remove the
material or fails to give consent within the time periods specified, which
results in action by the city under section 18-39 of this article, the
responsible party may be held financially responsible pursuant to subsection D3
of this section.
      3.   Right Of Entry On Private Property; Failure To Obtain Owner/Person
In Control's Consent: If a responsible party fails to remove graffiti within
the time herein specified and fails to respond to the city's notice and request
for consent, the city may immediately commence abatement of the graffiti and
may recover its costs for the abatement from the person or persons responsible
for applying the graffiti, and if that person or persons are minors, from the
responsible adult or adults, under authority granted by these regulations and
California law which authority includes the recovery of all costs incurred by
the city in abating graffiti, including attorney fees, and recordation of a
lien as to property. If the city shall have requested consent to remove or
paint over graffiti and the owner or person responsible for the property shall
have refused consent for entry on terms acceptable to the city consistent with
the terms of this section, the city may proceed with nuisance abatement
proceedings as against the owner pursuant to section 18-39 of this article.
   E.   Ease Of Removal Provisions:
      1.   Conditions Of Encroachment Permits: Encroachment permits issued by
the city may, among other items, be conditioned on: a) the permittee applying
an antigraffiti material to the encroaching object or structure of a type and
nature which is acceptable to the city manager, or his or her designee; b) the
immediate removal by the permittee of any graffiti; c) the right of the city to
immediately remove graffiti or to paint the encroaching object or structure; d)
the permittee providing the city with sufficient matching paint and/or
antigraffiti material on demand for use in the painting of the encroaching
object or structure containing the graffiti.
      2.   Conditions On Discretionary Approvals: In imposing conditions upon
conditional use permits, variances, building permits where discretionary
approvals are permitted, or other similar land use entitlements or development
or design applications, the city may impose graffiti removal requirements or
any or all of the following conditions, or other similar or related conditions:
         a.   Use Of Antigraffiti Material: Applicant may be required to apply
an antigraffiti material and provide a landscape design of a type and nature
which is acceptable to the city manager, or his or her designee, to such of the
publicly viewable surfaces to be constructed on the site deemed by the city
manager, or designee, to be likely to attract graffiti ("graffiti attracting
surfaces");
         b.   Right Of Access To Remove Graffiti: Applicant shall grant, in
writing, the right of entry over and access to such parcels, upon twenty four
(24) hours' posted notice concerning public structures/areas or structures/
areas visible from major city arterials, or upon forty eight (48) hours' posted
notice for all other structures/areas, by authorized city employees or agents,
for the purpose of removing or painting over graffiti on graffiti attracting
surfaces previously designated by the city manager, or designee. Such grant
shall be made an express condition of approval and shall be deemed to run with
the land.
         c.   Supply City With Graffiti Removal Material: Applicant, and any
and all successors in interest, shall, for a specified period of years after
approval, provide the city with sufficient matching paint and/or antigraffiti
material on demand for use in the painting over or removal of designated
graffiti attracting surfaces;
         d.   Owner To Immediately Remove Graffiti: Persons applying for
subdivision maps shall, as a part of any conditions, covenants and
restrictions, covenant, which covenant shall run with the land, in a form
satisfactory to the city, that the owners of the lots immediately remove any
graffiti placed on publicly viewable trees, rocks and structures thereon to the
city's satisfaction. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-34: RECOVERY OF COSTS AND OBLIGATION FOR EXPENSE:
   A.   When the city removes graffiti pursuant to this article, the expense of
abatement and related administrative costs shall be, to the fullest extent
permitted by law, an expense of the minor or other person creating, causing, or
committing the graffiti, and the expense of abating the graffiti shall be a
lien against the property of the minor, responsible adult or other person and a
personal obligation against the minor, responsible adult or other person.
   B.   Notwithstanding the terms of subsection A of this section, the
responsible adult shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor who has
created, caused or committed a graffiti nuisance. As such, the city may recover
the costs incurred by the city in abating the nuisance, resulting from the
defacement by a minor of the property of another by graffiti or any other
inscribed material, by placing a lien against the property of the responsible
adult, and by making the expense a personal obligation of the responsible
adult.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the names and addresses of
the responsible adult, if known, shall be reported by the probation officer to
the chief of police for the purpose of enforcement of this section.
   D.   As used in this section, the following terms have the following
meanings:
      1.   "Expense of abatement and related administrative costs" includes,
but is not limited to, court costs, attorney fees, costs of removal of the
graffiti or other inscribed material, costs of repair and replacement of
defaced property, costs of administering and monitoring the participation of a
defendant and his or her parents or guardians in a graffiti abatement program,
and the law enforcement costs incurred by the city in identifying and
apprehending the minor or other person.
      2.   For the purposes of this section and the following sections, "minor"
or "other person" means a minor or other person who has confessed to, admitted
to, or pled guilty or nolo contendere to a violation of section 594, 594.3,
640.3, 640.6, or 640.7 of the California Penal Code, or a minor convicted by
final judgment of a violation of section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, 640.7 of the
Penal Code, or a minor declared a ward of the juvenile court pursuant to
section 602 of the California Welfare and Institutions code by reason on the
commission of an act prohibited by above sections of the Penal Code. (Ord. 1638
§ 1, 8-19-2003)
18-35: RECOVERY OF SUMMARY ABATEMENT COSTS; LIEN:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish a procedure to collect
abatement and related administrative costs incurred in the summary abatement of
any nuisance resulting from the defacement by a minor or other person of the
property of another by graffiti or any other inscribed material.
   B.   Notice shall be given to the minor or other person, prior to the
recordation of a lien on the parcel of land owned by the minor or other person.
Such notice shall be served in the same manner as a summons in a civil action
pursuant to California law.
   C.   Notice shall be given to the responsible adult prior to the recordation
of a lien on the parcel of land owned by the responsible adult as described
above.
   D.   If the minor or other person, or responsible adult, after diligent
search, cannot be found, the notice may be served by posting a copy of the
notice upon the property owned by the minor or other person, or responsible
adult in a conspicuous place, for a period of ten (10) days. The notice shall
also be published pursuant to Government Code section 6062 in a newspaper of
general circulation that is published in the county in which the property is
located.
   E.   A graffiti nuisance abatement lien shall be recorded in the county
recorder's office in the county in which the parcel of land is located. From
the date of recording, the lien shall have the force, effect, and priority of a
judgment lien.
   F.   A graffiti nuisance abatement lien authorized by this section shall
specify the amount of the lien; the name of the agency on whose behalf the lien
is imposed; the date of the abatement order; the street address, legal
description, and the assessor's parcel number of the parcel on which the lien
is imposed; and the name and address of the recorded owner of the parcel.
   G.   If the lien is discharged, released, or satisfied, either through
payment or foreclosure, notice of the discharge containing the information
specified in this section shall be recorded by the city. A graffiti nuisance
abatement lien and the release of the lien shall be indexed in the grantor-
grantee index.
   H.   A graffiti nuisance abatement lien may be satisfied through foreclosure
in an action brought by the city.
   I.   The city may recover from the property owner any costs incurred
regarding the processing and recording of the lien and providing notice to the
property owner as part of its foreclosure action to enforce the lien.
   J.   Costs that are subject to a lien under this section include, but are
not limited to, court costs, attorney fees, costs of removal of the graffiti or
other inscribed material, costs of repair and replacement of defaced property,
costs of administering and monitoring the participation of a defendant and his
or her parents or guardians in a graffiti abatement program, and the law
enforcement costs incurred by the city in identifying and apprehending the
minor or other person. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-36: RECOVERY OF COSTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish, as an alternative to the
procedure established in section
18-35 of this article, a procedure to collect abatement and related
administrative costs incurred in the summary abatement of any nuisance
resulting from the defacement by a minor or other person of the property of
another by graffiti or any other inscribed material by making the abatement and
related administrative costs a special assessment against a parcel of land
owned by the minor or other person or owned by the responsible adult.
   B.   The assessment may be collected at the same time and in the same manner
as ordinary municipal taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided
for ordinary municipal taxes.
   C.   All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of
municipal taxes shall be applicable to the special assessment.
   D.   If any real property to which the abatement and related administrative
costs relate has been transferred or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for
value, or if a lien of a bona fide encumbrancer for value has been created and
attaches thereon prior to the date on which the first installment of the taxes
would become delinquent, then the abatement and related administrative costs
shall not result in a lien against the real property but shall instead be
transferred to the unsecured roll for collection.
   E.   Notices or instruments relating to the abatement proceeding or special
assessment may be recorded.
   F.   Upon entry of a second or subsequent civil or criminal judgment within
a two (2) year period finding that an owner of property or a minor or other
person is responsible for a graffiti related nuisance or crime, the court may
order that person to pay treble the costs of the abatement. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-
19-2003)
18-37: CIVIL LIABILITY:
In addition to all other remedies specified in this article, the city is
entitled to bring a civil action against the minor or other person and each
responsible adult. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the minor or other
person and each responsible adult shall be personally liable for any and all
costs to the city, any person or business incurred in connection with the
removal of graffiti caused by the minor or other person, and for all law
enforcement costs, city staff costs, attorney fees and court costs incurred in
connection with the civil prosecution of any claim for damages or
reimbursement. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-38: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any person violating the provisions of this
article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment, and by the performance of community service
to the maximum extent permitted by law.
   B.   Charge May Be Reduced: Notwithstanding the classification of a
violation of this article or any section thereof as a misdemeanor, at the time
an action is commenced to enforce the provisions of this article, the trial
court, upon recommendation of the prosecuting attorney, may reduce the charged
offense from a misdemeanor to an infraction.
   C.   Additional Penalties Available: Subsection A of this section does not
preclude the availability of all additional penalties available permitted by
law, including, but not limited to, those acts of graffiti vandalism punishable
as felonies under state law. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-39: NUISANCE:
   A.   In addition to the remedies in this article, a violation of any of the
provisions of this article shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated by the
city through civil process by means of restraining order, preliminary or
permanent injunction, or in any manner provided by law or this code for the
abatement of such nuisance. Should the city abate said nuisance in this manner,
the city shall be entitled to recover such costs, including to the fullest
extent permitted by law, attorney fees and court costs, from the owner of the
property upon which said nuisance exists.
   B.   A notice of public nuisance may be served upon the owner of the
affected property, requiring such nuisance to be abated. The property owner
shall remove said nuisance within thirty (30) days of the service of the
notice. The notice to the property owner will serve as notification of the
location and description of the graffiti and the property owner's obligation to
remove said graffiti. The notice may be served by personal service on the owner
or by certified mail addressed to the owner's last known address, and shall
additionally be posted on the property.
   C.   In the event the owner fails to abate the nuisance, the city or its
private contractor is expressly authorized to enter upon the premises for such
purposes. The city may direct the removal of graffiti from the property with
the cost of work performed billed to the property owner who may select the
option of direct payment of such costs. If the owner fails to make direct
payment, the abatement costs may be made a lien or treated as a special
assessment as described in this article.
   D.   A property owner shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of mailing
by the city of the bill for the cost of removal of graffiti from the owner's
property in which to appeal any charge or assessment for graffiti removal. Said
appeal must be submitted in writing to the city clerk. Upon receipt of the
written appeal, the city clerk shall schedule a hearing before the city
council. The city manager or his or her designee shall submit a written report
to the city council, with a copy to the appealing party, setting forth
justifications for the description of the work done and the cost thereof. The
city clerk shall notify the party appealing of the date and time of the hearing
at least ten (10) days in advance of the hearing.
At the time and place of such hearing, the city manager or his or her designee
shall present the report and the appealing party shall present all information
in opposition to the calculation of the removal. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the city council shall determine what cost, if any, is to be imposed
upon the appealing party. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-40: SALE OF AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINERS OR WIDE TIPPED MARKER PENS TO MINORS:
It is unlawful for any person or firm to sell or furnish to any minor, and for
any minor to purchase, any aerosol or pressurized container of paint and/or any
wide tipped marker pens exceeding four millimeters (4 mm) in width, containing
anything other than a solution which can be removed with water when dry,
capable of defacing property. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-41: POSSESSION BY MINORS:
It is unlawful for any individual under the age of eighteen (18) years, who is
in a public place or on private property, without the consent of the owner,
tenant or operator thereon, and who is not accompanied by a responsible adult,
to possess: a) an aerosol or pressurized container of paint, or b) wide tipped
marker pens with tips exceeding four millimeters (4 mm) in width which contain
solutions other than that which can be removed with water when dry. Such
violation shall constitute an infraction. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-42: RESTITUTION AND COMMUNITY SERVICE:
Any minor or other person found guilty or pleading nolo contendere to a
violation or violations described in subsection 18-34D2 of this article shall
pay restitution to the property owner, in addition to authorized penalties. If
the violator is a minor, the responsible adult shall be responsible for payment
of restitution. In lieu, in whole or in part, of requesting prosecution of a
petition to declare a minor to be a ward of the court under Welfare and
Institutions Code section 602, a violation of this article will result in said
minor being ordered to perform community service with the following
requirements: a) the minor shall perform not less than twenty four (24) hours;
b) at least one of the custodial parents, or if none, the responsible adults,
shall be in attendance for the maximum amount of time allowed by law for the
assigned community service; and c) the entire period of community service shall
be performed under the supervision of a community service provider approved by
the Tulare County probation department. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-43: ALTERNATIVES:
Nothing in the foregoing sections shall be deemed to prevent the city from
commencing a civil or criminal proceeding to abate a public nuisance under
applicable California Civil or Penal Code provisions as an alternative to the
proceedings set forth herein. The city shall be entitled to utilize any and all
remedies permitted by law with regard to the violations specified in this
article. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-44: EVIDENTIARY USE:
In the event it is necessary pursuant to notice from the proper legal
authorities for sufficient evidence of graffiti to be preserved prior to its
removal, the city shall make every effort to have its evidentiary use expedited
in order to permit abatement of the graffiti as quickly as possible. For the
time period that any portion of the graffiti will be required by the proper
legal authorities to remain on the property for this purpose, the property
owner shall not be held responsible for maintaining a public nuisance. (Ord.
1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
18-45: SEVERABILITY:
It is declared to be the intention of the city council that the subsections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this article form an interrelated
program for dealing with the problem of graffiti and vandalism within the city,
but that such subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases are
distinct and severable and, in the event that any subsections, paragraphs,
clauses and phrases are declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or
unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining subsections, paragraphs,
clauses or phrases of this article. (Ord. 1638 § 1, 8-19-2003)
ARTICLE III. SALE AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
18-46: Legislative Purpose
18-47: Definitions
18-48: Use Of Tobacco By Minor
18-49: Display Of Tobacco Products
18-46: LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE:
The city of Porterville has determined that in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of those citizens within the city and metropolitan area
under the age of eighteen (18) years, it is necessary to regulate the sale,
acquisition, or possession of tobacco products facilitated by self-service
displays. (Ord. 1656 § 1, 7-20-2004)
18-47: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, those terms identified in this section shall, unless
the context indicates otherwise, be ascribed the meaning contained herein.
   EMPLOYEE: Any person in the service of another under any contract of hire,
express or implied, oral or written, where the employer has the power or right
to control and direct the employee in the material details of how the work is
to be performed. "Employee" also includes any person volunteering his or her
time or service.
   MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any tobacco, cigarette, cigar, pipe tobacco, smokeless
tobacco, chewing tobacco, or any other form of tobacco which may be utilized
for smoking, chewing, inhaling, snuffing, or other manner of ingestion or
absorption in the human body.
   TOBACCO SHOP: A business establishment in which fifty percent (50%) or more
of any one or more of the following is devoted to or attributable to the sale
of tobacco products:
   A.   Wall space or any other display area such as tables, racks, or display
structures; or
   B.   Gross revenues.
   WHOLESALE RETAILER: Any large scale retail establishment with supporting
goods and services designated to service a regional service trade area. (Ord.
1656 § 1, 7-20-2004)
18-48: USE OF TOBACCO BY MINOR:
No minor shall, in the streets or in any public place, smoke a cigar, pipe,
cigarette, or shall use tobacco in any form. (Ord. 1656 § 1, 7-20-2004)
18-49: DISPLAY OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, business, partnership,
or other entity doing business within the city of Porterville to store, stock,
keep, or display for sale or transfer any tobacco product in any area other
than a place that is locked and secured, or is otherwise made inaccessible to
the public and which is accessible only to the employees of the business. This
prohibition shall not apply to "tobacco shops" or "wholesale retailers". (Ord.
1656 § 1, 7-20-2004)
ARTICLE IV. AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION
SECTION:
18-50: Legislative Findings
18-51: Definitions
18-52: Prohibited Acts
18-53: Penalties
18-54: Severability
18-50: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
   A.   The city council finds that the increase in aggressive solicitation
throughout the city has become extremely disturbing and disruptive to residents
and businesses, and has contributed not only to the loss of access to and
enjoyment of public places, but also to an enhanced sense of fear, intimidation
and disorder.
   B.   The city council also finds that solicitation at major intersections in
the city and near freeway on and off ramps poses a dangerous condition for the
solicitor and motorists in the area.
   C.   Aggressive solicitation usually includes approaching or following
pedestrians, repetitive soliciting despite refusals, the use of abusive or
profane language to cause fear and intimidation, unwanted physical contact, or
the intentional blocking of pedestrian and vehicular traffic. The city council
further finds that the presence of individuals who solicit money from persons
at or near banks, automated teller machines, or in public transportation
vehicles is especially troublesome because of the enhanced fear of crime in
those confined environments. Motorists also find themselves confronted by
persons seeking money who, without permission, wash their automobile windows at
traffic intersections, despite explicit instructions by drivers not to do so.
People driving or parking on city streets frequently find themselves faced with
persons seeking money by offering to open car doors or locate parking spaces.
Such activities carry with them an implicit threat to both persons and
property.
   D.   The city council is enacting this article pursuant to its police power,
as stated in article XI, section 7 of the California constitution, in addition
to the power set forth in section 647(c) of the state of California Penal Code.
This law is timely and appropriate because current laws and city regulations
are insufficient to address the aforementioned problems.
   E.   The law is not intended to limit any persons from exercising their
constitutional right to solicit funds, picket, protest or engage in other
constitutionally protected activity. Rather, its goal is to protect citizens
from the fear and intimidation accompanying certain kinds of solicitation that
have become an unwelcome and overwhelming presence in the city. (Ord. 1706 § 2,
10-3-2006)
18-51: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
   AGGRESSIVE MANNER: Means and includes:
   A.   Intentionally or recklessly making any physical contact with or
touching another person in the course of the solicitation without the person's
consent;
   B.   Following the person being solicited, if that conduct is: 1) intended
to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or
the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession; or
2) is intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being
solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
   C.   Continuing to solicit within the immediate area of the person being
solicited after the person has made a negative response, if continuing the
solicitation is: 1) intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to
fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in
the person's possession; or 2) is intended to or is reasonably likely to
intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the
solicitation;
   D.   Intentionally or recklessly blocking the safe or free passage of the
person being solicited or requiring the person, or the driver of a vehicle, to
take evasive action to avoid physical contact with the person making the
solicitation. Acts authorized as an exercise of one's constitutional right to
picket or legally protest, and acts authorized by a permit issued pursuant to
city regulations, shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic;
   E.   Intentionally or recklessly using obscene or abusive language or
gestures: 1) intended to or likely to cause a reasonable person to fear
imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the
person's possession; or 2) words intended to or reasonably likely to intimidate
the person into responding affirmatively to the solicitation; or
   F.   Approaching the person being solicited in a manner that: 1) is intended
to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or
the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's possession; or
2) is intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being
solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE: A device, linked to a financial institution's
account records, which is able to carry out transactions, including, but not
limited to: account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals, balance inquiries,
and mortgage and loan payments.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE FACILITY: The area comprised of one or more
automatic teller machines, and any adjacent space which is made available to
banking customers during and after regular banking hours.
   BANK: Any banking corporation, savings and loan association, or credit union
chartered under the laws of this state or the United States.
   CHECK CASHING BUSINESS: Any person duly permitted by the superintendent of
banks to engage in the business of cashing checks, drafts or money orders for
consideration pursuant to the provisions of the banking laws.
   PUBLIC AREA: An area to which the public or a substantial group of persons
has access, and includes, but is not limited to, alleys, bridges, buildings,
driveways, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, plazas, sidewalks, and streets
open to the general public, and the doorways and entrances to buildings and
dwellings, and the grounds enclosing them.
   SOLICIT: For the purposes of this article only, means to request an
immediate donation of money or other thing of value from another person,
regardless of the solicitor's purpose or intended use of the money or other
thing of value. The solicitation may be, without limitation, by the spoken,
written, or printed word, or by other means of communication. (Ord. 1706 § 2,
10-3-2006)
18-52: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person to solicit money or other things of value, or to
solicit the sale of goods or services:
   A.   In an aggressive manner in a public area.
   B.   In any public transportation vehicle, or bus station or stop.
   C.   Within fifteen feet (15') to any entrance or exit of any bank or check
cashing businesses or within fifteen feet (15') of any automated teller machine
during the hours of operation of such bank, automated teller machine or check
cashing business without the consent of the owner or other person legally in
possession of such facilities. When an automated teller machine is located
within an automated teller machine facility, such distance shall be measured
from the entrance or exit to the automated teller machine facility.
   D.   On private property, if the owner, tenant, or lawful occupant has asked
the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly
indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property.
   E.   From any operator of a motor vehicle that is in traffic on a public
street, including, but not limited to, major intersections in the city and near
freeway on and off ramps, whether in exchange for cleaning the vehicle's
windows, or for blocking, occupying, or reserving a public parking space, or
directing the occupant to a public parking space; this subsection shall not
apply to services rendered in connection with emergency repairs requested by
the operator or passengers of such vehicle. (Ord. 1706 § 2, 10-3-2006)
18-53: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates section
18-52 of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
punishment in accordance with California Penal Code section 19. Upon
recommendation of the prosecuting attorney, the court may reduce the charged
offense from a misdemeanor to an infraction, as set forth under section
1-9 of this code. Nothing in this article shall prevent the city from pursuing
criminal, civil, administrative, or any other legal remedy to address
violations of this article. (Ord. 1706 § 2, 10-3-2006)
18-54: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
in this article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this article or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause, or phrase in this article or any part thereof irrespective of
the fact that any one or more subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid, or ineffective.
(Ord. 1706 § 2, 10-3-2006)
ARTICLE V. PROXIMITY OF REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS TO CHILDREN'S FACILITIES
(Rep. by Ord. 1815, 7-1-2014)
ARTICLE VI. USE OF SKATEBOARDS
SECTION:
18-61: Purpose And Intent
18-62: Definition
18-63: Skateboarding Prohibited; Public Property
18-64: Skateboarding Prohibited; Private Property
18-65: Posting Of No Skateboarding Signs
18-66: Skateboarding; Nuisance
18-67: Exception; State Law
18-68: Enforcement And Penalties
18-69: Confiscation Of Skateboards; Administrative Remedy
18-70: Severability
18-61: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city council finds and declares that the purpose of this article is to
promote the public peace, morals, safety, and general welfare of persons in the
city by regulating the activity of skateboarding on certain public property and
on certain private property which is accessible to the general public. (Ord.
1661 § 2, 3-1-2005)
18-62: DEFINITION:
"Skateboard" means any vehicle, device, or contrivance with any number of
wheels, with a riding surface of any design, upon which a person may place one
or more feet, and which is designed to be, or can be propelled by human power,
and which is not defined as a bicycle by the California Vehicle Code. The term
skateboard also includes motorized skateboards. (Ord. 1661 § 2, 3-1-2005)
18-63: SKATEBOARDING PROHIBITED; PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   The use of skateboards is prohibited on any sidewalk, walkway,
crosswalk or other area designed primarily for pedestrian travel in the area
bounded by Morton and Olive and Second and D Streets.
   B.   The city council may, by resolution, prohibit the riding of
skateboards, as defined in section 18-62 of this article, on public streets,
sidewalks, parking lots, and other public property over which it has
jurisdiction when it is determined to be necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of pedestrians, motorists, or persons operating said
skateboards on said streets and sidewalks. The riding of skateboards shall be
prohibited upon any public property when such property is posted pursuant to
this article. (Ord. 1661 § 2, 3-1-2005)
18-64: SKATEBOARDING PROHIBITED; PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person shall skateboard on any privately owned property which is posted with
"No Skateboarding" signs as required by this article, without the express
consent of the property owner or property manager/agent. Private property
owners and/or their managers or agents are authorized to post or erect signs,
at their own expense, prohibiting the riding of skateboards in or on those
premises for which such a request has been made to, and approved by, the chief
of police or his or her designee. (Ord. 1661 § 2, 3-1-2005)
18-65: POSTING OF NO SKATEBOARDING SIGNS:
   A.   The city manager, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized to post
or erect, or cause to be posted or erected, signs prohibiting skateboarding or
the use of skateboards on public streets, sidewalks, or facilities so
designated by resolution of the city council.
   B.   A property owner shall post or erect, or cause to be posted or erected,
at the property owner's sole cost and expense, signs that are readily visible
to the general public. Authorized signs shall be a minimum of seventeen inches
by twenty two inches (17" x 22"), with one inch (1") letters, posted adjacent
to the entrances to the subject property. These signs may be erected in such a
position to prevent vandalism or theft. The property owner, or manager, shall
have on file with the police department a signed consent form authorizing the
police to enforce said ordinance. Example sign:
Skateboards Prohibited on Posted Property by CPMC Section 18-65, Porterville
Police Department 782-7400
   (Ord. 1661 § 2, 3-1-2005)
18-66: SKATEBOARDING; NUISANCE:
No person shall use a skateboard in a manner that creates a danger to others or
in a manner that creates a nuisance. (Ord. 1661 § 2, 3-1-2005)
18-67: EXCEPTION; STATE LAW:
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed to make punishable an act or
acts which are prohibited by any statute of the state of California. (Ord. 1661
§ 2, 3-1-2005)
18-68: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A person over the age of eighteen (18) who violates subsection
18-63A of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Any violation of the provisions of this article shall be deemed to be
an infraction, and punishable as such, notwithstanding the fact that at the
discretion of the city or district attorney, the violation of any section of
this article may be filed as a misdemeanor. The complaint charging such
violation shall specify whether the violation is a misdemeanor or an
infraction. Each day a violation of any provision of this article shall
continue, it shall constitute a new and separate violation.
   C.   A violation of any of the provisions of this article shall constitute a
nuisance and may be abated by the city through a civil process by means of
restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or in any manner
provided by law for the abatement of such nuisances. With regard to violations
committed by minors, the parent or legal guardian having control or custody of
the minor whose conduct violates this section shall be jointly and severally
liable with the minor for all penalties and/or costs and fees. (Ord. 1661 § 2,
3-1-2005)
18-69: CONFISCATION OF SKATEBOARDS; ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY:
Notwithstanding the police department's ability to confiscate a skateboard as
an instrumentality or evidence of a violation of this article, and in addition
to the enforcement provisions of the preceding section, the city may seize and
hold the skateboard at the time an individual is cited for any violation of any
provisions of this article for the second time within a one year period 1 . Any
time a violator's property is confiscated pursuant to this section, the city
shall provide the violator with a receipt and notice of a time and location for
an automatic hearing in front of the city's designated administrative hearing
officer no later than ten (10) days from confiscation of the skateboard. The
violator shall be entitled to the return of the skateboard either one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date of the confiscation, or at the time as
determined at the conclusion of the hearing. (Ord. 1661 § 2, 3-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 19-48B of this code.
18-70: SEVERABILITY:
It is declared to be the intention of the city council that the subsections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this article are distinct and
severable and, in the event that any subsections, paragraphs, clauses and/or
phrases are declared to be unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity, or
unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining subsections, paragraphs,
clauses, or phrases of this article. (Ord. 1661 § 2, 3-1-2005)
ARTICLE VII. UNAUTHORIZED CAMPING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
18-76: Findings And Purpose
18-77: Definitions
18-78: Restrictions And Time, Place And Manner Regulations
18-79: Enforcement
18-80: Violations
18-81: Suspension Of Enforcement
18-82: Adoption Of Administrative Rules
18-83: Methods Of Enforcement Not Exclusive
18-84: Overnight Camping On Private Property
18-76: PURPOSE:
   A.   As the City continues to offer assistance and services to persons
experiencing homelessness, the City must appropriately consider various
interests and formulate policy to best protect public health, safety, welfare,
property, and the environment, with its limited resources.
   B.   The City Council acknowledges that although shelters have been
established within the City, regionally there is a lack of nightly shelter beds
and housing available for persons experiencing homelessness and recognizes the
systemic lack of state and federal investment in shelter and public health
services for those experiencing homelessness.
   C.   The City Council acknowledges that some persons will live or shelter
for survival outdoors until they are able or willing to access affordable or
free shelter or housing. In Porterville, this has typically meant sheltering,
sometimes for extended periods of time, on City rights-of-way and City
property, on various private property without authorization, and at times on
other public agency property owned by other public agencies.
   D.   Public rights-of-way and public property are generally intended for
public use and travel. The City Council is the authority for rights-of-way
within the City; as such, the City must consider the safety of motorists and
pedestrians traveling on roadways and sidewalks, including to and from
neighboring properties, businesses, and residences.
   E.   The City owns limited property where camping can or should be allowed
for reasons including but not limited to public health and safety concerns and
issues created by the impact of camping on public property.
   F.   The City has had increasing concerns regarding public health and safety
due to instances of camping on or in rights-of way and public property in or
near waterways, streets, roads, sidewalks, schools, residences, businesses,
critical infrastructure, public access points and similar locations. Public
utility properties (e.g., stormwater, water, sewer) are environmentally and
operationally sensitive and generally closed to the public or have limited
access for safety, environmental and security reasons.
   G.   Over the long term and working with other governmental agencies and
non-profit organizations, the City’s belief is that people should not have to
live outside and there are safer options.
   H.   It is the purpose and intent of the City Council to provide standards
for camping and sheltering for survival on City rights-of-way and public
property, which are intended to be as compatible as possible with the needs of
everyone in Porterville to be healthy, safe, and have access to public places.
   I.   Smaller camp sites support both the health and safety of people who are
camping for survival on public property as well as the health and safety of the
public.
   J.   It is the purpose and intent of the City Council to provide standards
for camping and sheltering for survival on City rights-of-way and public
property which will address issues such as fire risk, unsanitary conditions,
health risks, public infrastructure security, public access impediments, trash,
waste, damage to park features and plants, and public safety hazards to both
people camping as well as neighboring businesses, residents and community
members, as well as environmental degradation, which have occurred with longer-
term camping in the City.
   K.   It is the intent of the City to evaluate each removal of a Campsite
with considerations of public health and safety, including for the people who
are sheltering in the camps, potential user conflicts, and available resources.
The City intends to use a team approach and coordinate with other governmental
agencies and non-profit organizations as appropriate. When the City requires a
person experiencing homelessness to remove a Campsite, through these
regulations, it intends to provide the person adequate time to remove the
Campsite before the City removes the Campsite, to secure any personal property
with reasonable utility or reasonable value for the person to retrieve at a
later date, and to clean the former Campsite to address threats to public
health and safety. (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024; amd. Ord. 1914, 8-5-2025)
18-77: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have the
meaning ascribed to them by this section unless it is apparent from the context
that another meaning is intended.
                                      Residing in or using any public property
                                      for one or more nights for living
                                      accommodation purposes, such as sleeping
                                      activities or making preparations to
                                      sleep (including the laying down of
                                      bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or
                                      using any tents, or storing personal
                                      belongings (including but not limited to
                                      clothing, sleeping bags, bedrolls,
CAMP or CAMPING:                      blankets, sheets, luggage, backpacks,
                                      kitchen utensils, cookware, and similar
                                      material), or making any fire using
                                      Bunsen burners or other heating items, or
                                      regularly cooking meals. These activities
                                      constitute camping when it reasonably
                                      appears, in light of all the
                                      circumstances, that a person is using
                                      public property as a living accommodation
                                      or sheltering for one or more nights.
                                      Include, but are not limited to, tents,
                                      huts, or similar temporary shelters
                                      consisting of any material with a top or
                                      roof or any other upper covering or that
                                      is otherwise enclosed by sides that is of
CAMP FACILITIES:                      sufficient size for a person to fit
                                      underneath or inside while sitting or
                                      lying down and includes the use of a tarp
                                      or other material tied or affixed to a
                                      structure or bush to create an enclosed
                                      area.
                                      Includes but is not limited to,
                                      tarpaulins, cots, beds, sleeping bags,
                                      hammocks, shopping carts, recyclable
                                      material and/or non-City designated
CAMP MATERIALS:                       cooking or heating facilities and similar
                                      equipment, or personal possessions that
                                      would facilitate one s use of a park,
                                      public property, or any portion of the
                                      public right-of-way as a temporary
                                      residence.
                                      Real property or a facility, whether
                                      privately or publicly owned, that the
                                      City Council by Ordinance or with
                                      recommendations from the City Manager by
                                      Resolution designates, from time to time,
                                      as being so vital and integral to the
                                      operation or functioning of the City or
                                      in need of protection that its damage,
                                      incapacity, disruption, or destruction
                                      would have a debilitating impact on the
CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE:              public health, safety, or welfare.
                                      Critical infrastructure may include, but
                                      is not limited to, government buildings,
                                      such as fire stations, police stations,
                                      jails, or courthouses; hospitals and
                                      health facilities; structures, such as
                                      antennas, bridges, roads, train tracks,
                                      drainage systems, or levees; or systems,
                                      such as computer networks, public
                                      utilities, electrical wires, natural gas
                                      pipes, telecommunication centers, or
                                      water sources.
                                      The employee(s) of the City, including
                                      but not limited to sworn police officers,
ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL:                and code enforcement officers authorized
                                      by the City to seek compliance with, and
                                      enforce, the regulations, requirements,
                                      and rules of this.
                                      Mapped area as defined by the Office of
                                      State Fire Marshal that designates zones
FIRE SEVERITY ZONES:                  (based on factors such as fuel, slope,
                                      and fire weather) with varying degrees of
                                      fire hazard (i.e., moderate, high, and
                                      very high).
                                      Untreated wastewater from bathtubs,
                                      showers, bathroom washbasins, clothes
GREYWATER:                            washing machines and the like. It does
                                      not include any toilet discharge,
                                      unhealthy bodily wastes, or manufacturing
                                      wastes.
                                      Sewage, toilet discharge, unhealthy
HAZARDOUS WATER:                      bodily wastes, manufacturing wastes and
                                      the like.
                                      Any manicured or natural ground covered
LANDSCAPED AREA:                      areas including but not limited to flower
                                      beds, bushes, brush areas, or shrubs.
                                      Any tangible property and includes, but
                                      is not limited to, goods, materials,
                                      merchandise, tents, tarpaulins, bedding,
PERSONAL PROPERTY:                    blankets, sleeping bags, personal items
                                      such as household items, luggage,
                                      backpacks, clothing, food, documents, and
                                      medication.
                                      Any park or recreational area
                                      specifically designed to be used by
                                      children that has play equipment
PLAYGROUND:                           installed, or any similar facility
                                      located on public or private school
                                      grounds, or on City, county, or State
                                      park grounds.
                                      Any publicly owned property in the City,
                                      whether improved or unimproved,
                                      including, but not limited to, any of the
                                      following: public alleyways; public
                                      parking lots; public passageways; public
                                      streets; public rights-of-way; freeway
                                      on-ramps and off-ramps; publicly owned,
                                      maintained, or operated parks and/or
                                      playgrounds; publicly owned, maintained,
PUBLIC PROPERTY:                      or operated landscaped areas or
                                      greenbelts; publicly owned fences, trees,
                                      light poles, or equipment boxes; publicly
                                      owned, maintained, or operated open
                                      spaces including, but not limited to,
                                      public facilities or buildings of any
                                      kind; public sidewalks, curbs, and
                                      gutters; public educational institutions;
                                      or other government owned, maintained, or
                                      operated properties located within the
                                      City.
                                      Every common carrier, toll bridge
                                      corporation, pipeline corporation, gas
                                      corporation, electrical corporation,
                                      telephone corporation, telegraph
                                      corporation, water corporation, sewer
PUBLIC UTILITIES:                     system corporation, and heat corporation,
                                      where the service is performed for, or
                                      the commodity is delivered to, the public
                                      or any portion thereof, as defined by
                                      Public Utilities Code section 216, and as
                                      amended.
                                      All City-owned or controlled rights-of-
                                      way, whether in fee title or as holder of
                                      a public easement for right-of-way or
                                      public access purposes. Public rights of-
                                      way include but are not limited to any
                                      public road, street, sidewalk, or private
RIGHTS-OF-WAY:                        street or other property that is subject
                                      to a public access easement dedicated or
                                      granted to the City for vehicular use,
                                      pedestrian use, utilities or other means,
                                      and any planter strip or landscaped area
                                      located adjacent to or contained within
                                      streets that is part of the public right-
                                      of-way.
                                      Any institution, facility, or
                                      organization, whether public or private,
                                      that offers instruction on those courses
                                      of study required by the California
                                      Education Code or that is maintained
                                      pursuant to standards set by the State
SCHOOL:                               Board of Education. School for purposes
                                      of this section does not include
                                      vocational or professional institutions
                                      of higher education, including a
                                      community or junior college, college, or
                                      university. The setback shall be
                                      calculated from the school property
                                      boundaries.
                                      To put aside or accumulate for use when
STORE:                                needed, to put for safekeeping, to place
                                      or leave in a location.
                                      That area within 200 feet of where
TRANSPORTATION FACILITY LOADING AREA: trains, buses or any form of public
                                      transportation loads or unloads
                                      passengers.
                                      A motor vehicle as defined by California
                                      Vehicle Code, section 415 and includes a
VEHICLE:                              recreational vehicle as defined by
                                      California Health and Safety Code,
                                      section 18010(a). (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024;
                                      amd. Ord. 1914, 8-5-2025)
 
18-78: RESTRICTIONS AND TIME, PLACE AND MANNER REGULATIONS:
It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to camp on Public Property
when there is available space for the person(s) at a shelter location where the
person(s) is eligible and is qualified to go. If there is no available shelter
space, persons who do not have any other permanent residence or domicile and/or
are involuntarily experiencing homelessness are permitted from camping on
certain public property as specified pursuant to this Article, and as
restricted pursuant to any administrative rules and policies promulgated by the
City Manager, or designee, adopted after the Effective Date of this Ordinance,
in accordance with this Article. Additionally, camping, sheltering or lodging
(or other activities) in a public place in violation of any applicable State or
Federal law is prohibited.
   A.   Time. Unless otherwise specified, any Camping or Camp, where allowed,
may only occur for 12 hours at a time in any one location. After 12 hours in
one location, the Camp and all associated Camp Materials must be moved at least
one street block or 600 feet, whichever is greater, to another allowed location
(where the activity is not otherwise prohibited).
   B.   Place. Camping is not allowed at any time in any of the following
places:
      1.   Within a residentially zoned property boundary or within any area
zoned Residential, as determined by the City of Porterville Zoning Map and the
Porterville Municipal Code.
      2.   Within any Mixed-Use Overlay Zone, as determined by the City of
Porterville Zoning Map and the Porterville Municipal Code.
      3.   Any place where Camping, a Camp, or Camp Materials create a physical
impediment preventing emergency or nonemergency ingress, egress or access to
public or private property, including but not limited to, on public sidewalks,
alleyway or other public rights-of-way, driveways providing access to vehicles,
and entrances or exits from buildings and/or other real property; and, within
15 feet of any fire hydrant.
      4.   Any vehicle lane, bicycle lane, roundabout within any public right-
of-way, or Transportation Facility Loading Area, or under or on any bridges.
      5.   Within 1,000 feet from any shelter both established for emergency
evacuations as well as approved under the Porterville Municipal Code and/or
approved consistent with any applicable provision of State or federal law.
      6.   On any street or public rights-of-way, unless expressly authorized
by the City.
      7.   Within, or within an additional distance boundary as set by
Resolution, any School.
      8.   Within, or within an additional distance boundary as set by
Resolution, any Playground.
      9.   At the following public property: Porterville City Hall, any City-
operated Community Center, Porterville Veterans Hall, Porterville Public
Library, and Zalud House.
      10.   On, or within an additional distance boundary as set by Resolution,
riverbeds, river embankments, sloughs, waterways, levies, water wells, storm
basins or any publicly owned water, sewer or storm drain infrastructure (e.g.,
sewer lift stations, storm water pump stations or structures).
      11.   Within, or within an additional distance boundary as set by
Resolution, Critical Infrastructure.
      12.   Within, or within an additional distance boundary as set by
Resolution, either a very high Fire Severity Zone or a high Fire Severity Zone.
      13.   In, or within an additional distance boundary as set by Resolution,
Refuse Service Containers (all bin and curbside service containers, in addition
to designated Refuse trash enclosures).
      14.   On or within a certain specified distance of any other Public
Property as may be designated from time to time by Resolution of the City
Council, with recommendations from the City Manager, Police Chief and Fire
Chief, or their designees.
   C.   Manner. Camping, when not otherwise prohibited, is subject to all of
the following limitations and regulations:
      1.   Individuals, Camp Materials, Camps, or personal property may not
obstruct, block, prevent access to, or impede: sidewalk accessibility or
passage; clear vision of moving vehicles or bicycles; usage of fire hydrants;
usage or function of Public Utilities, Critical Infrastructure, or other City
infrastructure; or, otherwise obstruct, block, prevent access to, or impede the
use of the Rights-of-Way for vehicular, pedestrian, bicycle, or other passage.
      2.   A Camp or Camping shall be limited to a spatial footprint of no
greater than 12 feet by 12 feet, or 144 square feet, and shall have a smaller
footprint if necessary to comply with the restrictions set forth in this
Chapter. The intent of this section is to allow a person to sleep protected
from the elements and maintain the essentials for living, while still allowing
others to use public spaces as designed and intended.
      3.   To prevent larger Camping sites from forming and the impacts to
public health and safety that can result, a Camp shall not be within a one
hundred fifty (150) foot radius of any other Camp, unless otherwise explicitly
authorized by City regulation, and only under such conditions adopted by the
City and permitted by this Code.
      4.   Individuals may not accumulate, discard, or leave behind garbage,
debris, unsanitary or hazardous materials, or other items of no reasonable
utility or reasonable value, as determined by the City, in public rights-of-
way, on City property, or on any adjacent public or private property.
      5.   Open flames, recreational fires, burning of garbage, bonfires, or
other fires, flames, or heating deemed unsafe by the Porterville Fire
Department, or the Porterville Police Department, are prohibited. Types of
flameless cooking stoves and other flameless devices for keeping warm, as
consistent with this subsection, are permitted. Additionally, any and all
fires, to the extent allowed by this Section, must comply with all State and
local laws.
      6.   Dumping of Greywater or Hazardous Water into any facilities or
places not intended for Greywater or Hazardous Water disposal is prohibited.
This includes but is not limited to City streets, public rights-of-way, public
waterways, and storm drains, which are not intended for disposal of Greywater
or Hazardous Water.
      7.   Unauthorized connections or taps to Public Utilities, including but
not limited to such connections or taps that cross over City property,
roadways, rights-of-way, driveways, streets, sidewalks, fences, and private
property are prohibited.
      8.   Violations of building codes, fire codes, and other relevant codes
or standards for health and safety are prohibited.
      9.   Obstruction of, or attachment of Camp Materials or personal property
to, fire hydrants, utility poles, Public Utilities infrastructure, public
infrastructure, fences, trees, vegetation, vehicles, bridges/infrastructure, or
buildings is prohibited.
      10.   Individuals may not build or erect structures, whether by using
plywood, wood materials, pallets, or other materials. Items such as tents, and
similar items used for shelter that are readily portable, are not structures
for purposes of this section.
      11.   Storage of personal property such as vehicle tires, bicycles, or
associated components (except as needed for an individual’s personal use),
gasoline, generators, lumber, household furniture, propane tanks, combustible
material or gases, or other items or materials, is prohibited, other than what
is related to camping, sleeping, or keeping warm and dry, and only to the
extent that such items are used in a safe manner.
      12.   Digging, excavation, terracing of soil, alteration of ground, water
or infrastructure, or damage to vegetation or trees is prohibited.
      13.   All animals in the custody, ownership, or companionship of an
individual, must be leashed or crated at all times.
      14.   Camps shall consist of no more than two adult persons, their minor
dependents, two animals (e.g., dogs) that are leashed or crated at all times,
and one tent. (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024; amd. Ord. 1914, 8-5-2025)
18-79: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Voluntary Compliance. The enforcement personnel shall make a good faith
effort to contact the person violating this Chapter and provide a reasonable
opportunity to cure or remedy the alleged violation. Enforcement Personnel
shall make a good faith effort to determine whether the person subject to
enforcement has been referred to service providers and/or local non-profit
assistance organizations and make a referral if it appears none has been made.
   B.   Notice of Violation.
      1.   24 Hour Notice. Prior to implementing any of the enforcement
mechanisms provided for in this Chapter to remove a Campsite and/or Camp
Facilities because of violations of this Chapter, the Enforcement Personnel
shall provide occupants of a Campsite or Camp Facilities, at least 24 hours in
advance of any action to remove the Campsite or Camp Facilities, notice both to
remove the camp within 24 hours consistent with the requirements of this
Chapter as well as of the intent by the City to remove the Campsite or Camp
Facilities in no less than 24 hours (the “notice”). The notice shall be in
writing and shall be posted on or near the Campsite or Camp Facilities, so as
to reasonably communicate the notice to persons living at the Campsite or Camp
Facilities but not present during the attempt to provide notice. In addition,
the Enforcement Personnel shall make a good faith effort to personally provide
the written notice to the occupant(s) of the Campsite or Camp Facilities
present at the time the Enforcement Personnel posts the notice. Failure of the
occupant(s) of the encampment to comply with the notice’s requirements to
remove the camp within 24 hours consistent with the requirements of this
Chapter shall constitute a violation of this Chapter. The notice shall contain
the following information:
         a.   The location of the Campsite or Camp Facilities;
         b.   The date and time notice was posted;
         c.   A statement that the Campsite or Camp Facilities violates this
Chapter;
         d.   An advisement that the City will remove the Campsite or Camp
Facilities 24 hours after the date and time of the notice;
         e.   Information about any housing, shelter, or homeless services
available for occupants of the Campsite or Camp Facilities, the phone number
and address to contact in order to obtain such housing, shelter, or homeless
services, if available, and information about obtaining free transportation, if
available, to such housing, shelter, or homeless services;
         f.   An advisement that any personal property remaining at the
Campsite or Camp Facilities site when the Enforcement Personnel returns to
remove the Camp Facilities will be impounded for no fewer than 60 days, or as
provided for by applicable law, and will be discarded thereafter if not
claimed; and
         g.   The address, phone number, and operating hours of the location
where the personal property will be stored and may be retrieved, being a
staging or storage area managed by the Porterville Fire Department - Code
Enforcement Unit, or as otherwise designated by the City, and that the City
will charge no fee for storage or retrieval.
      2.   Less Than 24 Hour Notice. The notice detailed above may establish a
shorter time for the removal of the encampment if the Enforcement Personnel
have determined the conditions at the Campsite or Camp Facilities requires
removal of the Campsite or Camp Facilities in less than 24 hours to avoid a
potential emergency or threat to public health or safety, such as possible site
contamination by hazardous materials or when there is reasonable potential
danger to human life or safety. Failure of the occupant(s) of the encampment to
comply with the notice’s requirements to remove the camp consistent with the
requirements of this Chapter shall constitute a violation of this Chapter.
      3.   Illegal Activity or Exceptional Emergency. Enforcement personnel may
remove a Campsite or Camp Facilities without providing the notice described
above in the following circumstances:
         a.   When there is probable cause for law enforcement officials to
believe that illegal activity, other than camping, is occurring at a Campsite
or Camp Facilities, or in the immediate vicinity of a Campsite or Camp
Facilities; or
         b.   When there is probable cause for law enforcement officials to
believe that the property that comprises a Campsite or Camp Facilities is being
used or is intended to be used to commit or facilitate the commission of
otherwise illegal activity; or
         c.   In the event of an exceptional emergency, such as significant
evidence of site contamination by hazardous materials or when there is
immediate danger to human life or safety.
   C.   Removal of a Campsite or Camp Facilities. If the occupant(s) fail to
comply with the request for voluntary compliance set forth in subsection A
above, and after the enforcement personnel comply with the requirements set
forth in subsection B above, any Camp, Camp Materials, or personal property in
violation of any of the standards in this Chapter may be removed or cleaned-up
by the City or its designated contractors, and the enforcement personnel may
take appropriate actions to remove a Campsite or Camp Facilities and enforce
this Chapter, consistent with the following:
      1.   When removing Camp Facilities, or individuals, Camp Materials, or
personal property from a Campsite, enforcement personnel will make reasonable
efforts to remove individuals without the use of force or citation.
      2.   When removing personal property, the City shall make reasonable
efforts to determine if the property belongs to an individual and has any
reasonable utility or reasonable value. “Personal belongings” include 1) items
of apparent value of $50 or more; and/or 2) items of apparent personal value,
including but not limited to: eyeglasses, operational wheelchairs, walkers,
crutches, other medical equipment, habitable tents, personal papers (such as
photographs, albums, ID’s, bank statements, and legal papers), backpacks,
container, and operational bicycles, scooter, and strollers. The City shall
make reasonable efforts to identify which Campsite the property was removed
from, to aid in connecting people with their property. Items that are
perishable, that have no reasonable use or value, that are not identifiable as
belonging to an individual, or that are in an unsanitary condition due to
saturation or contamination from bodily fluids, whether human or animal, or
other contamination, will be considered garbage, discarded, and need not be
stored.
      3.   Weapons, drug paraphernalia, or other contraband, and items that
appear to be either stolen or evidence of a crime, shall be provided to law
enforcement officials.
      4.   Following removal of personal property from City property or rights-
of-way, the City shall post a notice at or as near as possible to the location
the property was collected and on the City’s website, stating where the
personal property is being stored, and listing the phone number and hours a
person claiming ownership can collect or make arrangements to collect their
personal property.
      5.   After a Campsite or Camp Facilities has been removed, then at the
recommendation of the Police Chief or Fire Chief on the basis of public health
and safety, the City Manager may order that no camp be set up in that same
location or a 100-foot. The City shall post signs informing the public that
camping is prohibited at the location.
   D.   Removal and Storage of Personal Property or Camp Materials During
Removal of a Campsite or Camp Facilities. Personal property or Camp Materials
may be removed from City rights-of-way, City property, or a Camp, during
removal of a Campsite or Camp Facilities pursuant to Section C above, if in
violation of the provisions of this Chapter, as provided for herein.
      1.   Personal property removed from City rights-of-way or City property
and unclaimed at the time of removal will be stored by the City for a minimum
of sixty (60) days, or the duration (if shorter in time) allowed by applicable
State or federal law, counting from the day of the removal as day one.
      2.   Items that are perishable, that have no reasonable use or value,
that are not identifiable as belonging to an individual, or that are in an
unsanitary condition due to saturation or contamination from bodily fluids,
whether human or animal, or other contamination, will be considered garbage,
discarded, and will not be stored. Property discarded, dumped, or otherwise
abandoned in the City rights-of-way or on public property may be immediately
discarded.
      3.   The City will store personal property at a storage facility at or
near a designated City facility, where people can reasonably retrieve
belongings. Notwithstanding any otherwise applicable City policy or procedure,
all items collected and stored pursuant to this Chapter that reasonably appear
to have a monetary value at the time of collection of less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000) shall be stored at a storage facility, and items that
reasonably appear to have a monetary value at the time of collection of one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or more shall be separately stored for safekeeping
with the Porterville Police Department (“MBPD”).
      4.   The City will make reasonable efforts to provide a range of times
the storage facility will be available for people to collect their personal
property. The City may dispose of any personal property that remains unclaimed
after sixty (60) days, or the duration (if shorter in time) allowed by
applicable State or federal law, counting from the day of the removal as day
one. (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024; amd. Ord. 1914, 8-5-2025)
18-80: VIOLATIONS:
A citation for a violation of this Article shall be for an infraction. At the
City’s discretion, it may issue Administrative Citations under Chapter 2,
Article 14 of this Code. Citations will be issued only when other means of
achieving compliance have been unsuccessful or are not practicable for the
particular situation. Additionally, the City reserves the right to enforce this
Article in accordance with Chapter 1, Sections 1-9 and 1-10 of this Code, to
the extent consistent with this Article and Section. (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024;
amd. Ord. 1914, 8-5-2025)
18-81: SUSPENSION OF ENFORCEMENT:
The City Council, Manager, or designee, as otherwise specified is specifically
authorized to modify or suspend enforcement of any section or part of this
Article in the event of a declared emergency, pursuant to applicable State or
Federal Law, City regulations, administrative rules or policies, weather
conditions (including but not limited to extreme heat or cold), or for any
other reason within the City Council or City Manager’s authority, regardless of
whether an emergency has been declared. In addition, the City Manager may
suspend the enforcement of regulations contained in this Chapter when the City
Manager, or designee, has determined a person does not have access to shelter
and is engaged in case management or behavioral health services, or when
necessary or appropriate to respond to a person’s disability, or as further set
forth in any administrative policies implementing this Article adopted by the
City Manager, or designee pursuant to Section 18-82. (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024;
amd. Ord. 1914, 8-5-2025)
18-82:ADOPTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE RULES:
The City Manager, or designee may adopt administrative rules or policies
governing or guiding enforcement of this Chapter, consistent with the intent of
this Chapter, including but not limited to ensuring consistent and appropriate
enforcement for various circumstances. These administrative rules or policies
should ensure that enforcement is tailored to various circumstances, including
but not limited to situations where a person has a disability under the
Americans with Disabilities Act, where minor children are present or otherwise
involved, where a person has employment obligations that may relate to their
ability to comply with this Chapter, or for other reasons that may support
discretion in enforcement. (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024; amd. Ord. 1914, 8-5-2025)
18-83: METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Methods of enforcement for violations of this Chapter are not exclusive and may
consist of multiple enforcement mechanisms where legally authorized and
appropriate. However, the intent of the City is to always resolve violations at
the lowest possible level, and to engage to seek compliance and solve problems
while maintaining the dignity of all involved. (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024; amd. Ord.
1914, 8-5-2025)
18-84: OVERNIGHT CAMPING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It is unlawful to camp on private property without the property owner’s
consent, or to camp on private property in such a manner in violation of
applicable law or this Code or as to cause blight or a public nuisance, or to
disturb the peace and quiet enjoyment of the adjacent property owners and
neighbors. For the purposes of this section, an unlawful encampment includes
but is not limited to an area of private property, upon which any person has
settled or located, or which they occupy, without having a bona fide claim or
color of title thereto, or without the express consent of the owner or person
legally in charge thereof or the agent of the same, and/or which is occupied or
inhabited by such person in violation of section 103 of the California Building
Code or Chapter 7 of this Code (Uniform Building Codes as adopted by the City).
Camping inside a motor vehicle shall only be permitted if done in a manner
otherwise consistent with this Section and if otherwise (and to the extent)
permitted under this Code or applicable law.
Notwithstanding the other restrictions in this Section, camping shall not be
permitted on private property where it is conducted in such a manner as to
create inadequate sanitation, any trafficking in illegal drugs, or with such
frequency, intensity or duration as to constitute a use of land prohibited
under Chapter 21 of this Code (zoning regulations), nor where any fee, charge
or other monetary consideration is collected for the privilege of Camping or
for any services or the use of any facilities related thereto (unless such use/
activity has been expressly permitted by the City).
Notwithstanding this Section or other applicable regulations in this Code,
camping, lodging (or other activities) on private property in violation of any
applicable State or Federal law is prohibited. (Ord. 1905, 4-16-2024; amd. Ord.
1914, 8-5-2025)
ARTICLE VIII. RESERVED
(Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
ARTICLE IX. NOISE
SECTION:
18-90.1: Purpose
18-90.2: Definitions
18-90.3: Noise Standards; General Provisions
18-90.4: Exterior Noise Standards
18-90.5: Residential Interior Noise Standards
18-90.6: Noise Source Exemptions
18-90.7: Residential Air Conditioning And Refrigeration Systems
18-90.8: Waste And Garbage Collection Equipment
18-90.9: Electrical Substations
18-90.10: Warning Signs In Places Of Public Entertainment
18-90.11: Permit For Relief
18-90.12: Violations
18-90.1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The city council declares and finds that excessive noise levels are
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare and contrary to the public
interest as follows:
      1.   By interfering with sleep, communication, relaxation and the full
use of one's property; and
      2.   By contributing to hearing impairment and a wide range of adverse
physiological and psychological stress conditions; and
      3.   By adversely affecting the value of real property.
   B.   It is the intent of this article to protect persons from excessive
levels of noise within or near a residence, school, church, hospital or public
library and to warn persons of the hazards of excessive noise in places of
public entertainment. (Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, phrases and terms as used in this article shall have the
following meanings:
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL: The sound level in decibels as measured with a sound
level meter using the "A" weighted network (scale) at slow meter response. The
unit of measurement is referred to herein as dBA.
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL: The composite of noise from all sources excluding the
alleged offensive noise. In this context it represents the normal or existing
level of environmental noise at a given location for a specific time of the day
or night.
   CONSTRUCTION: Construction, enlargement, alteration, conversion or movement
of any building, structures or land together with any scientific surveys
associated therewith.
   CUMULATIVE PERIOD: An additive period of time composed of individual time
segments, which may be continuous or interrupted.
   DECIBEL: A unit for measuring the amplitude of a sound, equal to twenty (20)
times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty (20) micropascals (20
micronewtons per square meter).
   EMERGENCY WORK: The use of any machinery, equipment, vehicle, manpower or
other activity in a short term effort to protect, or restore safe conditions in
the community, or work by private or public utilities when restoring utility
service.
   FIXED NOISE SOURCE: A device, machine or combination thereof which creates
sounds while fixed or stationary, including, but not limited to, residential,
agricultural, industrial and commercial machinery and equipment, pumps, fans,
compressors, air conditioners and refrigeration equipment.
   HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof used for the accommodation and
medical care of sick, injured or infirm persons including rest homes and
nursing homes.
   IMPULSIVE NOISE: A noise of short duration, usually less than one second,
with an abrupt onset and rapid decay.
   INTRUDING NOISE LEVEL: The sound level created, caused, maintained or
originating from an alleged offensive source, measured in decibels, at a
specified location while the alleged offensive source is in operation.
Leq: The equivalent sound level. The sound level containing the same total
energy as a time varying signal over a given sample period. For purposes of
this article, the Leq is measured over a one hour sample period.
   MOBILE NOISE SOURCE: Any source other than a fixed noise source.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which violates the quantitative standards set
forth in this article.
   PURE TONE NOISE: Any noise which is distinctly audible as a single pitch
(frequency) or set of pitches. For the purposes of this article, a pure tone
shall exist if the one-third octave band sound pressure level in the band with
the tone exceeds the arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels of the two
(2) contiguous one-third octave bands by 5 dB for center frequencies of 500 Hz
and above and by 8 dB for center frequencies between 160 and 400 Hz and by 15
dB for center frequencies less than or equal to 125 Hz.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: A parcel of real property which is developed and used
either in whole or in part for residential purposes.
   SCHOOL: Public or private institutions conducting regular academic
instruction at preschool, kindergarten, elementary, secondary or collegiate
levels.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: Any machine or device for the amplification of
the human voice, music, or any other sound. Sound amplifying equipment shall
not include standard automobile radios or tape players when heard only by the
occupants of the vehicle in which the automobile radio is installed. Sound
amplifying equipment as used in this article shall not include warning devices
in authorized emergency vehicles, or horns or other warning devices in any
vehicle, which are used only for traffic safety purposes.
   SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument meeting American National Standard
Institute (ANSI) standard S1.4-1971 for type 1 or type 2 sound level meters or
an instrument and the associated recording and analyzing equipment, which will
provide equivalent data.
   SOUND TRUCK: Any motor vehicle, or any other vehicle regardless of motive
power, whether in motion or stationary, having mounted thereon any sound
amplifying equipment. (Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.3: NOISE STANDARDS; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Standards: The standards which shall be considered in determining
whether a violation of section
18-90.4 or
18-90.5 of this article exists shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   The volume of the noises.
      2.   The intensity of the noises.
      3.   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual.
      4.   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural.
      5.   The volume and intensity of the background noise, if any.
      6.   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities.
      7.   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates.
      8.   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates.
      9.   The time of day or night the noise occurs.
      10.   The duration of the noise.
      11.   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
      12.   Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or noncommercial
activity.
   B.   Public Nuisance: It is unlawful for any person to make, continue,
allow, or cause to be made or emanate any excessively, unnecessarily,
unnaturally, or unusually loud noise or sound from any radio, compact disc
player, stereo, television or other mechanical, electrical, or electronic sound
amplification device or instrument which annoys, disturbs, injures, or
endangers the comfort, repose, quiet, health, peace, or safety of other persons
in the city; such acts are hereby being declared a public nuisance. In
interpreting and applying this section, the following shall apply:
      1.   Emanating Noise Or Sound: Emanating noise or sound shall be defined
for these purposes as it is described in subsections 18-90.4 and/or 18-90.5 of
this article.
      2.   Prima Facie Evidence: Prima facie evidence exists when such noise or
sound annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, quiet,
health, peace, business, or safety of other persons and is shown by proof of
noncompliance with subsection A of this section, or by a complaint by a person
or persons regarding such noise or sound. A complainant must have standing to
file a complaint.
      3.   Measuring Of Distance: The distance from the source of such noise or
sound shall be measured from the actual source itself, or where the source is
located on private property not adjacent to residential property, in which case
the distance shall be measured from the property line.
      4.   Alternative Prima Facie Evidence: Alternative prima facie evidence
that such noise or sound is excessively, unnecessarily, unnaturally, or
unusually loud is shown by a sound level exceeding the ambient sound level by
more than five (5) decibels measured at the property line, or in the case of
common wall construction such as condominiums, apartments, or business
facilities, measured within the adjoining occupied units.
      5.   Exemptions: Nothing in this section prohibits or declares unlawful
or a nuisance:
         a.   The operation of warning or amplification devices by emergency,
fire, or law enforcement vehicles or personnel;
         b.   Lawful use of vehicle horns or backup warning devices;
         c.   Private or public warning equipment or systems;
         d.   The conduct of previously authorized and otherwise lawful public
activity such as parades, speeches, lectures, ceremonies, entertainment,
sports, music, or recreation events;
         e.   The usual and customary operations of bells, gongs, buzzers, or
similar mechanical, electrical or electronic sound amplification devices to
mark time or call to attendance for an otherwise lawful use or purpose, except
within public rights of way pursuant to section
20-6 of this code.
      6.   Sound Amplification Devices (Refer To Advertising And Signs Code,
Section
3-15 Of This Code): The use of sound trucks or any other vehicle in the city
with sound amplifying equipment in operation shall comply with the provisions
of section
3-15 of this code.
   C.   Public Park/City Facilities:
      1.   Sound or noise produced by amplification equipment used at all city
parks and other city facilities shall not exceed seventy five (75) dBA when
measured at a distance of one hundred feet (100') from the sound source or the
closest residential property line, whichever is closest to the noise source.
      2.   It should be the event sponsor's responsibility to ensure that sound
levels are below the specified noise level standard. The sponsor shall provide
a sound level meter to accomplish this task.
      3.   Failure of the event sponsor to enforce the sound limits may result
in any or all of the following:
         a.   The forced curtailment of activities as ordered by the police
department.
         b.   Citation issued by the police department under the city's
nuisance abatement ordinance.
         c.   Forfeiture of deposits placed with city by the sponsor for use of
the facility.
   D.   Noise Measurement: Any noise measurement made pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be made with a sound level meter using the "A"
weighted network (scale) at slow meter response. Fast meter response shall be
used for impulsive type sounds. Calibration of the measurement equipment
utilizing an acoustical calibrator certified by its manufacturer to be in
compliance with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) reference
calibration levels shall be performed immediately prior to recording noise
level data.
   E.   Exterior Noise Levels: Exterior noise levels shall be measured from the
nearest residential, school, hospital, church or public library property line
to the noise source. Where practical, the noise testing microphone shall be
positioned three (3) to five feet (5') above the ground and away from
reflective surfaces.
   F.   Interior Noise Levels: Interior noise levels shall be measured within
the affected dwelling unit, at points at least four feet (4') from the wall,
ceiling or floor nearest the noise source, with windows in the normal seasonal
configuration. Reported interior noise levels shall be determined by taking the
arithmetic average of the readings taken at the various microphone locations.
(Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.4: EXTERIOR NOISE STANDARDS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person at any location within the incorporated
areas of the city to create any noise, or to allow the creation of any noise,
on property owned, leased, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person
which causes the exterior noise level when measured at any affected residence,
school, hospital, church or public library to exceed the noise level standards
as set forth in the following table:
   EXTERIOR NOISE LEVEL STANDARDS, dBA
 
Category                   Daytime                 Nighttime
                           7:00 A.M. To 10:00 P.M. 10:00 P.M. To 7:00 A.M.
Hourly Leq                 50                      45
Maximum sound level (LMAX) 70                      65
 
   B.   In the event the measured ambient noise level without the alleged
offensive source in operation exceeds the applicable noise level standard in
either category above, the applicable standard or standards shall be adjusted
so as to equal the ambient noise level.
   C.   Each of the noise level standards specified above shall be reduced by
five (5) dB for pure tone noises, noises consisting primarily of speech or
music, or for recurring impulsive noises.
   D.   If the intruding noise source is continuous and cannot reasonably be
discontinued or stopped for a time period whereby the ambient noise level
without the source can be measured, the noise level measured while the source
is in operation shall be compared directly to the noise level standards. (Ord.
1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.5: RESIDENTIAL INTERIOR NOISE STANDARDS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person at any location within the incorporated
areas of the city, to operate or cause to be operated within a dwelling unit or
on property occupied by a nonresidential use, any source of sound or to allow
the creation of any noise which causes the noise level when measured inside
another dwelling unit to exceed the noise level standards as set forth in the
following table:
   INTERIOR NOISE LEVEL STANDARDS, dBA
 
Category                   Daytime                 Nighttime
                           7:00 A.M. To 10:00 P.M. 10:00 P.M. To 7:00 A.M.
Maximum sound level (LMAX) 55                      45
 
   B.   The noise level standards specified above shall be reduced by five (5)
dB for pure tone noises, noises consisting primarily of speech or music, or for
recurring impulsive noises.
   C.   If the intruding noise source is continuous and cannot reasonably be
discontinued or stopped for a time period whereby the ambient noise level
without the source can be measured, the noise level measured while the source
is in operation shall be compared directly to the noise level standards. (Ord.
1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.6: NOISE SOURCE EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities shall be exempted from the provisions of this article:
   A.   Noises from safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure
relief valves.
   B.   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
   C.   Noises resulting from emergency work, including repair of public
utilities.
   D.   Activities conducted in public parks, public playgrounds and public or
private school grounds, including, but not limited to, school athletic and
school entertainment events, except as otherwise noted in this article.
   E.   Any mechanical device, apparatus or equipment used, related to, or
connected with emergency activities or emergency work.
   F.   Noise sources associated with construction, whether private or public,
within five hundred feet (500') of the uses mentioned in subsection 18-90.4 of
this article, provided such activities do not take place before six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any day except Saturday or
Sunday, or before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
on Saturday or Sunday.
   G.   Noise sources associated with the maintenance of residential property
provided such activities take place between the hours of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any day except Saturday or Sunday, or
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on
Saturday or Sunday.
   H.   Noise sources associated with a lawful commercial or industrial
property caused by mechanical devices or equipment, including air conditioning
or refrigeration systems, installed prior to the effective date of this
chapter; provided that this exemption shall expire twelve (12) months after the
effective date of this chapter.
   I.   Noise sources associated with the collection of waste or garbage.
   J.   Noise sources associated with seasonal agricultural packing operations
provided that noise levels produced by such operations do not exceed the
exterior noise level standards set forth in section 18-90.3 of this article
when measured as provided in section 18-90.4 of this article for a cumulative
period of more than ninety (90) days out of the year.
   K.   Any activity to the extent regulation thereof has been preempted by
state or federal law. (Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.7: RESIDENTIAL AIR CONDITIONING AND REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
18-90.3 of this article where the intruding noise source when measured as
provided in section
18-90.4 of this article is an existing residential air conditioning or
refrigeration system or associated equipment, the exterior noise level shall
not exceed fifty five (55) dBA. For residential air conditioning or
refrigeration systems or associated equipment installed after the effective
date of this chapter, the exterior noise level when measured as provided in
section
18-90.4 of this article shall not exceed fifty (50) dBA. (Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.8: WASTE AND GARBAGE COLLECTION EQUIPMENT:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
18-90.3 of this article, the collection of waste or garbage from residential
property by persons authorized to engage in such activity, and who are
operating truck mounted loading or compacting equipment, shall not take place
before six o'clock (6:00) A.M. or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. The noise
level created by such activities when measured at a distance of fifty feet
(50') in an open area shall not exceed the following standards:
   A.   Eighty five (85) dBA for equipment in use, purchased or leased prior to
the effective date of this chapter;
   B.   Eighty (80) dBA for new equipment purchased or leased after the
effective date of this chapter. (Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.9: ELECTRICAL SUBSTATIONS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
18-90.3 of this article, noise sources associated with the operation of
electrical substations shall not exceed fifty (50) dBA when measured as
provided in section
18-90.4 of this article. (Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.10: WARNING SIGNS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT:
It is unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation or playing of
any loudspeaker, musical instrument, motorized racing vehicle, or other source
of sound for public entertainment within a building or structure wherein the
noise level exceeds ninety five (95) dBA as determined by using the slow
response of a sound level meter at any point normally occupied by a customer,
without a conspicuous and legible sign stating:
WARNING! SOUND LEVELS WITHIN MAY CAUSE HEARING IMPAIRMENT.
(Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.11: PERMIT FOR RELIEF:
Applications for a permit for relief from the noise level designated in this
chapter on the basis of undue hardship and special events may be made to the
city manager or his duly authorized representative for recommendation to the
city council. Any permit granted by the city council under this section shall
contain all conditions upon which the permit has been granted and shall specify
a reasonable time that the permit shall be effective. The city council may
grant the relief as applied for if the council finds:
   A.   That additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify
his/her activity or operation to comply with this chapter; or
   B.   The activity, operation, or noise source will be of temporary duration.
The noise source cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this
chapter; and
   C.   That no other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
The city council may prescribe any conditions or requirements deemed necessary
to minimize adverse effects upon the community or surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
18-90.12: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Penalty: Each violation of the provisions of this article shall be
deemed a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the county jail not
exceeding six (6) months, or by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or both. Upon recommendation of the prosecuting attorney, the
court may reduce the charged offense from misdemeanor to an infraction,
punishable under section
1-9 of this code.
   B.   Prosecution: Violations of this article shall be prosecuted in the same
manner as other misdemeanor violations of this code; provided, however, that in
the event of violation, a written notice of intention to prosecute will be
given to the alleged violator not less than five (5) calendar days prior to the
issuance of a misdemeanor complaint. No complaint shall be issued in the event
the cause of violation is removed, the condition abated or fully corrected
within the five (5) day period. In the event the alleged violator cannot be
located in order to serve the notice of intention to prosecute, the notice as
required in this section shall be deemed to be given upon mailing the notice by
registered or certified mail to the alleged violator at his/her last known
address or at the place where the violation occurred, in which event the five
(5) day period shall commence at the date of the day following the mailing of
the notice. (Ord. 1757, 8-18-2009)
ARTICLE X. SHOPPING CARTS
SECTION:
18-100: Findings And Purpose
18-101: Definitions
18-102: Enforcement Authority And Remedies
18-103: Prohibition Against Removing, Possessing And Altering Carts
18-104: Prohibition Against Abandoning Carts
18-105: Impoundment Of Abandoned Carts
18-106: Cart Identification Signs
18-107: Cart Containment System Required
18-108: Retrieval Services
18-109: Penalty
18-110: Prosecution For Theft Not Precluded
18-111: Severability
18-100: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The City Council finds that abandoned shopping carts on public and private
property create conditions that are unsightly, interfere with pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, accumulate over time on public and private property, promote
blight, resulting in reduction of property values and deterioration of
neighborhoods, are detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare, and
constitute a public nuisance. This article is intended to ensure that measures
are taken to prevent the removal of the shopping carts from the owner's
premises and facilitate the retrieval of abandoned shopping carts in a manner
consistent with State law. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-101: DEFINITIONS:
   ABANDONED CART: Shall mean any cart that has been removed, without the
written consent of the owner, from the owner's business premises or parking
area of the retail establishment on which the cart owner's business premises
are located, is located on either public or private property, and is no longer
in the possession or under the physical control of the person who removed the
cart. A cart abandoned by a person, other than the owner, shall not constitute
a relinquishment of ownership of the cart by the owner.
   BUSINESS PREMISES: Means the interior of a cart owner's commercial
establishment, adjacent walkways, any loading area, and parking areas, as
defined herein. The owner's business premises may include a multi-store
shopping center with shared areas of parking and public access. The entire area
owned, rented, leased or utilized by a business establishment that provides
shopping carts for customer use, including parking areas.
   CART: A basket or platform which is mounted on wheels or a similar device
generally used in a business establishment by a customer for the purpose of
transporting goods of any kind or used in a coin-operated laundry or dry-
cleaning retail establishment by a customer or an attendant for the purpose of
transporting fabrics and the supplies necessary to process them. This includes,
but is not limited to, laundry, grocery or shopping carts.
   CART IDENTIFICATION SIGN: Means a sign or engraved surface which is
permanently affixed to a shopping cart containing all of the information
specified in section 22435.1 of the California Business and Professions Code.
   CART OWNER: Means the owner or operator of a commercial establishment which
provides carts for use by its customers for the purpose of transporting goods
of any kind. Any person, business establishment or entity that owns, possesses
or has the power to make a shopping cart available to customers. For the
purpose of this article, owner includes, but is not limited to, the store
owner, manager, on-site manager, on-duty manager or other designated agent of a
business establishment providing shopping carts for customer use.
   CART REMOVAL WARNING: Means a placard, sign or painted text which meets the
requirements specified in section
18-106 of this article.
   CART RETRIEVAL SERVICE: Means a third party commercial service in the
business of retrieving and returning shopping carts.
   DIRECTOR: The City Manager or his or her designee.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Means any officer or employee of the City designated
with the authority to enforce the applicable provisions of this Code.
   INDIVIDUAL CART IDENTIFICATION NUMBER: Means a number unique to each cart
owned or provided by a cart owner.
ON-SITE CART CONTAINMENT PROGRAM: Means one or more of the following measures:
   A.   Disabling devices on all shopping carts which prevent them from being
removed from the business premises by locking the wheels or otherwise
preventing the movement of the carts.
   B.   An on-site security guard to deter customers who attempt to remove
carts from the business premises.
   C.   Bollards and chains around the business premises to prevent cart
removal, if permitted by the applicable zoning and the site plan, and if
approved by the Fire Marshal.
   D.   Obtaining a security deposit from customers for the on-site use of
shopping carts.
   E.   The rental or sale of carts that can be temporarily or permanently used
for the transport of goods.
   F.   Any other measure approved by Community Development as a means to
contain carts on the premises.
   PARKING AREA: Means a parking lot or other property provided by a commercial
establishment for use by a customer for parking an automobile or other vehicle.
In a multi-store complex or shopping center, "parking area" includes the entire
parking area used by or controlled by the complex or center.
   PERSON: Any person, corporation, partnership, association, joint- stock
company, limited liability company, limited liability partnership and other
entity capable of being sued.
   PHYSICAL CONTAINMENT SYSTEM: Means one of the following, as approved by the
Director of Community Development:
   A.   Disabling devices on all shopping carts which prevent them from being
removed from the business premises by locking the wheels or otherwise
preventing the movement of the carts.
   B.   Any other system of equipment approved by the Community Development
Director or designee which physically contains shopping carts on the premises.
   SHOPPING CART OR CART: Means a basket which is mounted on wheels or a
similar device provided by the operator of a commercial establishment for the
use of customers for the purpose of transporting goods of any kind. A cart sold
by a commercial establishment to a retail customer for that customer's personal
use is not a shopping cart for the purposes of this article.
   SHOPPING CART OR LAUNDRY CART RETRIEVAL BUSINESS: To search for, gather and
restore possession to the owner, or an agent thereof, for compensation or in
expectation of compensation, of shopping carts or laundry carts located outside
the premises or parking area of a retail establishment.
   STREET: Any street, avenue, road, alley, lane, highway, boulevard,
concourse, driveway, culvert, crosswalk, sidewalk, park, parking lot, parking
area and place used by the general public. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-102: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY AND REMEDIES:
   A.   This article shall be administered and enforced by the Director with
the assistance of the Police Chief, Fire Chief and their designated agents and
Code Enforcement Officers. The Director is hereby authorized and directed to
promulgate and implement rules, regulations and procedures necessary or
appropriate for the enforcement of this article. The Director, Police Chief,
Fire Chief and their designated agents and Code Enforcement Officers are
authorized as follows:
      1.   To enter upon and inspect any public and private property or
premises to ascertain whether the provisions of this article or applicable
State laws are being obeyed. As used herein, public property includes the
outdoor common area of any building, business premises, apartment building or
complex or other premises or portion thereof which is adjacent to public
property, open to the public and which contains a shopping cart or shopping
carts visible at street or ground level from the adjacent public property. All
inspections, entries and examinations shall be done in a reasonable manner. If
an owner, tenant, occupant or agent or other responsible party refuses to grant
the City permission to enter or inspect, the City may seek an inspection
warrant pursuant to the procedures provided for in the California Code of Civil
Procedure. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed a limitation upon
the Director to enter private property pursuant to permission from the owner or
occupant thereof or pursuant to a duly issued inspection warrant or other court
order;
      2.   To examine a shopping cart or parts thereof, or to obtain
information as to the identity of the owner of any shopping cart, or to
retrieve shopping carts in accordance with the provisions of this article;
      3.   To determine whether a violation of this article exists and to take
appropriate action to gain compliance with the provisions of this article and
applicable State laws; and
      4.   To issue administrative citations and to impose civil penalties for
any violation of this article.
   B.   The Police Chief, City police officers and designated City employees,
who shall be designated by a separate resolution pursuant to the provisions of
California Penal Code section 836.5, shall have the authority to issue criminal
citations for violations of this article. The City Attorney and the District
Attorney shall have the authority to file criminal complaints to enforce this
article.
   C.   In addition to the above listed authority, the City may exercise the
following remedies:
      1.   Pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 22435.7, any owner
that fails to retrieve its abandoned cart(s) within three (3) business days
after receiving notice from the City, shall pay the City's administrative costs
for retrieving the cart(s) and providing the notification to the owner. Any
owner who fails to retrieve abandoned carts in accordance with this article in
excess of three (3) times during a specified six-month period shall be subject
to a fifty dollar ($50.00) fine for each occurrence. An occurrence includes all
carts owned by the owner that were impounded by the City for a one-day period.
      2.   If a cart is not retrieved by its owner within thirty (30) days
after the owner has received notice of the cart being impounded, including a
failure to pay costs and fines, or if the cart's owner cannot be determined,
the cart will be sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the City sees fit.
      3.   Following the City having retrieved more than ten (10) carts in any
thirty-day period or the issuance of more than ten (10) administrative
citations in any twelve-month period, the Director of Community Development may
require the owner to install a physical containment system.
      4.   Violations by any person of section 18-103 of this article may be
enforced through any of the penalties for violations of this Code specified in
section 1-9 of this Code. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-103: PROHIBITION AGAINST REMOVING, POSSESSING AND ALTERING CARTS:
It is unlawful for any person except the owner of a cart or the owner's agent
to do any of the following acts:
   A.   No person shall be deemed to be authorized to remove a cart with cart
identification from the business premises unless he or she possesses written
authorization from the cart owner. Removal authorization shall be valid for a
period not to exceed twelve (12) hours. The authorization shall include: the
date and time of removal, the name, address, and phone number of the store
where the cart was removed, as well as the name, title and signature of the
person authorizing the removal. This section shall not apply to the possession
of a shopping cart removed from the business premises at the direction of the
cart owner for the purposes of repair, maintenance, or when found in the
possession of a cart retrieval service returning it to the cart owner;
   B.   To be in possession of any cart while that cart is not located on the
premises or parking lot of the owner of the cart without the express written
consent of the owner. Written permission to remove a shopping cart shall be
valid for a period not to exceed twelve (12) consecutive hours;
   C.   It shall be unlawful for a person to possess a shopping cart with a
cart identification sign on sidewalks, streets, trails, other public property
open to the public, or on private property open to public view, without written
authorization from the cart owner, unless the person has written permission of
the cart owner to repair or maintain the cart, is a cart retrieval service in
the process of returning an empty cart to the cart owner, or is moving the cart
so it can be picked up by a cart retrieval service;
   D.   To be in possession of any shopping cart with serial numbers removed,
obliterated or altered; or
   E.   To alter, convert or tamper with a cart, or to remove any part or
portion thereof or to remove, obliterate or alter serial numbers or the cart
identification sign on a cart. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-104: PROHIBITION AGAINST ABANDONING CARTS:
It is unlawful for any person to leave, abandon or store any cart upon any
sidewalk, street or other public place, or upon private property exposed to
public view, at a location other than the premises of the owner. (Ord. 1848, 8-
7-2018)
18-105: IMPOUNDMENT OF ABANDONED CARTS:
   A.   The City of Porterville hereby adopts California Business and
Professions Code section 22435 in reference to the impoundment of abandoned
carts. Pursuant to the provisions of the Business and Professions Code, a cart
that has a sign affixed to it in accordance with California Business and
Professions Code section 22435.1 may be impounded by the City provided both of
the following conditions have been satisfied:
      1.   The shopping cart is located outside the premises or parking area of
a retail establishment. The parking area of a retail establishment located in a
multi-store complex or shopping center shall include the entire parking area
used by the complex or center.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection G of this section, the shopping
cart is not retrieved within three (3) business days from the date the owner of
the shopping cart, or his or her agent, receives actual notice from the City of
the shopping cart's discovery and location.
   B.   In instances where the location of a shopping cart will impede
emergency services, the City is authorized to immediately retrieve the shopping
cart from public or private property.
   C.   When the City impounds a shopping cart under the authority provided in
subsections A and B of this section, the City is authorized to recover its
actual costs for providing this service.
   D.   Any shopping cart that is impounded by the City pursuant to subsections
A and B of this section shall be held at a location that is both:
      1.   Reasonably convenient to the owner of the shopping cart; and
      2.   Open for business at least six (6) hours of each business day.
   E.   The City shall fine the owner of a shopping cart in an amount as set by
the Porterville City Council for each occurrence in excess of three (3) during
a specified six-month period for failure to retrieve shopping carts in
accordance with this section. An occurrence includes all shopping carts
impounded in accordance with this section in a one-day period.
   F.   The City may sell or otherwise dispose of any shopping cart not
reclaimed from the City within thirty (30) days of receipt of a notice of
violation by the owner of the shopping cart.
   G.   Notwithstanding subsection A2 of this section, the City may impound a
shopping cart that otherwise meets the criteria set forth in subsection A1 of
this section without complying with the three-day advance notice requirement
provided that all of the following occur:
      1.   The owner of the shopping cart, or his or her agent, is provided
actual verbal or written notice within twenty four (24) hours following impound
of the cart and that notice informs the owner, or his or her agent, as to the
location where the shopping cart may be claimed.
      2.   Any shopping cart so impounded shall be held at a location in
compliance with subsection D of this section.
   H.   Any shopping cart reclaimed by the owner or his or her agent, within
three (3) business days following the date of actual notice as provided
pursuant to subsection G1 of this section, shall be released and surrendered to
the owner or agent at no charge whatsoever, including the waiver of any impound
and storage fees or fines that would otherwise be applicable pursuant to
subsection C or E of this section. Any cart reclaimed within the three (3)
business day period shall not be deemed an occurrence for purposes of
subsection E of this section.
   I.   Any shopping cart not reclaimed by the owner or his or her agent,
within three (3) business days following the date of actual notice as provided
pursuant to subsection G1 of this section, shall be subject to any applicable
fee or fine imposed pursuant to subsection C or E of this section commencing on
the fourth business day following the date of the notice.
   J.   Any shopping cart not reclaimed by the owner or his or her agent,
within thirty (30) days of receipt following the date of actual notice as
provided pursuant to subsection G1 of this section, may be sold or disposed of
in accordance with subsection F of this section. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-106: CART IDENTIFICATION SIGNS:
   A.   Removal Prevention And Retrieval: Every owner who provides or intends
to provide carts to be used by customers shall do the following:
      1.   Pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 22435.1, each
shopping cart owned or used within the City shall have permanently affixed to
it and easily visible a cart identification sign or engraved surface which
includes all of the following information: the name of the cart owner; the
telephone number of the cart owner and/or commercial establishment to which the
cart belongs; a valid toll-free phone number for cart retrieval; the procedure
(if any) to be followed to obtain permission to remove the cart from the
business premises; and a notice to the public that unauthorized removal of the
cart from the business premises is a violation of State law and City ordinance.
      2.   In addition to the cart identification and cart removal notice
required on each cart, the cart owner shall post a notice in substantially the
following form prominently and conspicuously in the area where carts are stored
for customer use. Post prominently and conspicuously at all public entrances
and exits where there is frequent cart activity, a notice no smaller than 12
inches by 18 inches, or approved by the Director, in the following form:
   REMOVAL OF SHOPPING CARTS (OR LAUNDRY CARTS, IF APPLICABLE,) FROM THESE
PREMISES IS PROHIBITED BY LAW (PMC § 18-103) AND WILL SUBJECT THE VIOLATOR TO A
FINE OF UP TO $1,000.00 OR SIX MONTHS IN JAIL OR BOTH THE FINE AND THE JAIL
TERM.
The notice required by this section shall be considered exempt from chapter 21,
article 305 of this Code.
   B.   Maintenance Of Signs: It shall be the responsibility of each cart owner
to comply with subsections A1 and A2 of this section, and to continuously
maintain, or cause to be maintained all signs so that all of the required
information is accurate and clearly legible.
   C.   Identification Of Ownership Required: A cart without a sign attached,
pursuant to subsection A of this section, shall bear some form of
identification to establish ownership. Every business that utilizes shopping
carts during normal operations within the City of Porterville shall provide the
Director with a valid, current telephone number of the owner or provider of the
cart.
   D.   Chain Stores: Carts provided by individual stores or retailers that are
owned by or affiliated with the same company and share the same name (chain
stores) shall bear some form of identification which identifies the specific
store that the cart is assigned to.
   E.   Presumption Of Abandonment: A cart that does not have a sign attached
as required by subsection A of this section or fails to provide information to
the Director as required in subsection C of this section is presumed to be
abandoned if it has been left standing unattended on any public or private
property other than the owner's or the owner's agent. The City may impound,
sell or otherwise dispose of such a cart immediately upon discovery of the
cart. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-107: CART CONTAINMENT SYSTEM REQUIRED:
Every cart owner shall operate and maintain an on-site cart containment program
as defined in section
18-101 of this article. A cart owner may be exempted from this requirement if
he or she provides proof of contracting with a qualified cart retrieval service
and submits information to the Community Development Director or designee which
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director that the qualified cart
retrieval service will: a) actively locate shopping carts within the City
limits of Porterville seven (7) days per week, eight (8) hours per day; and b)
respond to complaints from the public in a manner which results in the
retrieval of shopping carts within twenty four (24) hours after receiving
complaint(s). (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-108: RETRIEVAL SERVICES:
   A.   Any person who engages in the business of shopping cart or laundry cart
retrieval, as defined in this article, in the City shall have a City business
license and shall retain records showing written authorization from the cart
owner, or an agent thereof, to retrieve the cart or carts and to be in
possession of the cart or carts retrieved, unless the person is an employee of
the cart owner.
   B.   A copy of the record showing written authorization shall be maintained
in each vehicle used for shopping cart or laundry cart retrieval.
   C.   Each vehicle employed for the retrieval of shopping carts or laundry
carts shall display a sign that clearly identifies the retrieval service or the
cart's owner.
   D.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to punishment in accordance with section
1-9 of this Code. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-109: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this Code, or the California Business
and Professions Code as referenced above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to punishment in accordance to California Penal Code section 19. Upon
recommendation of the Prosecuting Attorney, the court may reduce the charged
offense from a misdemeanor to an infraction, punishable under section
1-9 of this Code. An administrative fine may also be imposed as set forth in
section
2-144 of this Code. Nothing in this article shall prevent the City from
pursuing criminal, civil, administrative or any other legal remedy to address
violations of this article. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-110: PROSECUTION FOR THEFT NOT PRECLUDED:
The provisions of this article are not intended to preclude the application of
any other laws relating to prosecution for theft. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
18-111: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision, clause, sentence or division of this article or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of the
provisions of this article which can be given effect without the invalid
provisions or application and, to this end, the provisions of this article are
declared to be severable. (Ord. 1848, 8-7-2018)
ARTICLE XI. CANNABIS ACTIVITIES AND USE (NON-COMMERCIAL)
SECTION:
18-120: Purpose And Intent
18-121: Definitions
18-122: Interpretation And Applicability
18-123: Severability
18-124: Personal Activities/Use Restrictions And Prohibitions
18-125: Enforcement
18-120: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The City Council finds that restrictions on personal cannabis
activities including drying, harvesting, processing, smoking and use are
necessary for the preservation and protection of the public health, safety, and
welfare for the City and its community. The City Council's prohibition of such
activities is within the authority conferred upon the Council in its Charter
and State law.
   B.   The purpose of this section is to restrict personal cannabis activities
including drying, harvesting, processing, smoking, and use, consistent with
permitted local regulation under State law.
   C.   To the extent not covered in this article, personal, non- commercial
cultivation of cannabis is regulated, consistent with applicable State law,
pursuant to section
301.23 of this Code. (Ord. 1855, 4-16-2019)
18-121: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, "cannabis" and/or "marijuana", "cannabis
product", "cannabis accessories", "cultivation", "distribution", "manufacture",
"processing", and "transporting" have the same meanings as defined in sections
301.23 and/or
15-85 of this Code. (Ord. 1855, 4-16-2019)
18-122: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Nothing in this article is intended to, nor shall it be construed to,
preclude a landlord from limiting or prohibiting cannabis cultivation, smoking
or other related activities by tenants.
   B.   Nothing in this article is intended to, nor shall it be construed to,
burden any defense to criminal prosecution otherwise afforded by California
law.
   C.   Nothing in this article is intended to, nor shall it be construed to,
exempt any cannabis related activity from any and all applicable local and
State construction, electrical, plumbing, land use or any other building or
land use standards or permitting requirements.
   D.   Nothing in this article is intended to, nor shall it be construed to,
make legal any cultivation, transportation, sale or other use of cannabis that
is otherwise prohibited under California law.
   E.   All personal (non-commercial) cultivation activities are also subject
to the provisions of section
301.23 of this Code.
   F.   Commercial cannabis activities are restricted and regulated under
chapter 15, article VII of this Code. (Ord. 1855, 4-16-2019)
18-123: SEVERABILITY:
If any part of this article is held to be invalid or inapplicable to any
situation by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining sections of this article. (Ord. 1855, 4-16-2019)
18-124: PERSONAL ACTIVITIES/USE RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   To the extent that the following activities are permitted by State
law, nothing in this section shall prohibit a person twenty one (21) years of
age or older from:
         a.   Possessing, processing, purchasing, transporting, obtaining or
giving away to persons twenty one (21) years of age or older, without
compensation whatsoever, not more than 28.5 grams of cannabis not in the form
of concentrated cannabis;
         b.   Possessing, processing, purchasing, transporting, obtaining or
giving away to person twenty one (21) years of age or older, without
compensation whatsoever, up to eight grams (8 g) of cannabis in the form of
concentrated cannabis;
         c.   Smoking or ingesting cannabis or cannabis products except as
prohibited by California Health and Safety Code section 11362.3 or other State
laws (and as restricted by this section);
         d.   Possessing, transporting, purchasing, obtaining, using,
manufacturing, or giving away cannabis accessories to persons twenty one (21)
years of age or older without compensation whatsoever; or
         e.   Engaging in the cultivation of six (6) or fewer live cannabis
plants, as set forth in section
301.23 of this Code.
      2.   The use of gas products or other volatile solvent (e.g., CO2,
butane, etc.) for cannabis cultivation, processing or manufacture is
prohibited.
      3.   No distribution of cannabis cultivated or processed for personal use
shall be allowed other than as authorized by this Code, or required to be
allowed by law.
      4.   A property owner shall not rent, lease or otherwise permit any
person or business that engages in commercial cannabis activity to occupy real
property in the City, unless the commercial activity is expressly permitted by
this Code, and the activity at the location has been expressly authorized by
the City in accordance with applicable City regulations and applicable State
laws.
      5.   The smoking, ingesting, or use of cannabis or cannabis products is
prohibited in all public places, in all locations where smoking tobacco is
prohibited, and on all business properties or within business facilities within
the jurisdictional limits of the City, unless otherwise expressly authorized by
City regulation, or required to be allowed by State law. (Ord. 1855, 4-16-2019)
18-125: ENFORCEMENT:
Any violation of this article is subject to any and all penalties as prescribed
in this Code, in addition to being subject to other remedies provided by law,
including but not limited to, injunctive relief, nuisance abatement action,
summary abatement of immediately hazardous conditions, and all other applicable
fines, penalties and remedies. This section is adopted to address public health
and safety issues, and as such, carries with it an express legislative intent
to be interpreted strictly, enforced with an emphasis on public and community
safety, and enforced rigorously in a manner such as to deter further
violations. In any civil action brought pursuant to this article, a court of
competent jurisdiction may award reasonable attorneys' fees and costs to the
prevailing party. Notwithstanding the penalties set forth in this Code, no
provision of this article authorizes a criminal prosecution, arrest, or penalty
inconsistent with or prohibited by Health and Safety Code section 11362.71 et
seq., or section 11362.1 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time.
In the event of any conflict between the penalties enumerated under this Code
and any penalties set forth in State law, the maximum penalties allowable under
State law shall govern. (Ord. 1855, 4-16-2019)
CHAPTER 19
PARKS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
19-1: Definitions
19-2: Parks And Leisure Services Commission Created; Composition; Function
19-3: Appointment
19-4: Term Of Office And Compensation
19-5: Member Appointed By Porterville Unified School District
19-6: Vacancies
19-7: Meetings; Records; Quorum
19-8: General Powers And Duties Of Commission
19-9: Driving Automobile, Golf Cart, Etc., Within Confines Of Golf Course
19-10: Presence Upon Golf Course When Closed To Public Declared Unlawful
19-11: Closing Hours In Parks
19-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   COMMISSION: The parks and leisure services commission.
   DEPARTMENT: The parks and leisure services department.
   DIRECTOR: The director of parks and leisure services. (Ord. 1114 § B, 8-5-
1977)
19-2: PARKS AND LEISURE SERVICES COMMISSION CREATED; COMPOSITION; FUNCTION:
There is hereby created a park and leisure services commission, and said
commission shall be composed of eight (8) members, who shall be residents of
the city of Porterville. The park and leisure services commission shall serve
in an advisory capacity to the city council. (Ord. 1114 § B, 8-5-1977; Ord.
1686 § 1, 1-17-2006)
19-3: APPOINTMENT:
Seven (7) of the said commission members shall be appointed by the mayor with
the consent of a majority of the city council. (Ord. 1114 § B, 8-5-1977; Ord.
1686 § 2, 1-17-2006)
19-4: TERM OF OFFICE AND COMPENSATION:
Terms for all commissioners appointed shall be four (4) years, excepting the
term for the first appointee by Porterville Unified School District as
described in section
19-5 of this article and excepting the terms for the first appointees to the
commission, which shall be as follows: four (4) commissioners shall be
appointed to four (4) year terms and three (3) commissioners shall be appointed
to two (2) year terms commencing July 1, 1977. The terms of commissioners first
appointed shall be determined by lot at an organization meeting of the
commission, to be held and conducted within a reasonable time after said
appointments. All commissioners shall serve at the pleasure of the city council
and may be removed by a majority vote of the city council at any time and for
any reason. Members of the commission shall serve without compensation. No
member of the commission shall serve more than two (2) consecutive four (4)
year terms. (Ord. 1114 § B, 8-5-1977; Ord. 1686 § 3, 1-17-2006)
19-5: MEMBER APPOINTED BY PORTERVILLE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT:
One representative of the Porterville Unified School District shall be selected
by the district to serve as a voting member of the commission, excepting the
term for the first appointee which shall be as follows: the first
commissioner's term will commence March 1, 2005, and will terminate on October
31, 2007. The four (4) year term thereafter will commence on November 1, 2007.
(Ord. 1114 § B, 8-5-1977; Ord. 1686 § 4, 1-17-2006)
19-6: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring otherwise than by expiration of terms shall be filled by
appointment as in the first instance, such appointees to serve for the
unexpired term of the vacant office. (Ord. 1114 § B, 8-5-1977)
19-7: MEETINGS; RECORDS; QUORUM:
The commission shall hold meetings regularly and shall designate the time and
place thereof. It shall adopt its own rules of procedure and shall keep a
record of its proceedings. All meetings and records of the commission shall be
public. Five (5) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. (Ord. 1114 § B, 8-5-1977; Ord. 1686 § 5, 1-17-2006)
19-8: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
The commission:
   A.   Shall advise the city council and the director on the management and
control of parks, parkways and public grounds except as otherwise provided;
   B.   May establish all reasonable rules and regulations for the protection
of rights and property vested in the city and under control of the parks and
leisure services department for the use, care and management of all parks,
squares, avenues, grounds or recreation centers, and for the governing, use and
enjoyment of any building, structure, equipment, apparatus or appliances
therein; which rules and regulations shall be posted in some conspicuous place
in the park, square, avenue, grounds or recreation center, or in or near the
building, structure, equipment, apparatus or appliance to which the rule or
regulation applies;
   C.   May call upon the police department to assist in enforcing all
ordinances, rules and regulations governing parks, squares, avenues, grounds or
recreation centers as have been or may hereafter be established;
   D.   Shall recommend schedules of charges for the golf course, swimming
pools and all special services;
   E.   Shall give due attention and study to park and leisure services as they
affect the welfare of the people;
   F.   Shall interpret the leisure and park services of the department to the
community;
   G.   Shall take initiative in planning for future park and leisure areas and
facilities, as well as determining means of bringing present areas and
facilities up to an acceptable standard;
   H.   Shall serve as a sounding board against which the director and staff
may test their plans and ideas;
   I.   Shall recommend policy to the city council keeping in mind that the
adoption of policy is the prerogative of the city council and that the director
must have a free hand to carry on the work of the department within the
framework of these policies;
   J.   Shall define the objectives and goals of the department. (Ord. 1114 §
B, 8-5-1977)
19-9: DRIVING AUTOMOBILE, GOLF CART, ETC., WITHIN CONFINES OF GOLF COURSE:
   A.   Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a person
engaged in the performance of his duties as a municipal employee, or a person
who has hired from the Porterville golf course manager or golf professional a
golf cart, to operate or drive any motorcycle, automobile, golf cart or other
vehicle within the confines or upon the Porterville municipal golf course
excepting therefrom that portion of said golf course designed and utilized for
public parking.
   B.   "Golf Cart" Defined: For purposes of this section a "golf cart" is any
vehicle, electric or gasoline propelled, that is customarily utilized in the
playing of the game of golf.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 1093 § A, 6-15-1976)
19-10: PRESENCE UPON GOLF COURSE WHEN CLOSED TO PUBLIC DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the Porterville
municipal golf course for the purpose of playing or practicing the game of golf
or to play or practice the game of golf on any day when said golf course is
closed to play to the general public.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain upon the Porterville
municipal golf course on any day when the same is closed to play to the general
public when instructed to leave or depart by the golf course manager, any of
his agents or employees, or any officials, agents or employees of the city of
Porterville.
   C.   Any person violating any of these provisions or failing to comply with
any requirement of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person
convicted of the misdemeanor under the provisions of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 990 §§ 1–4, 1-5-1971)
19-11: CLOSING HOURS IN PARKS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, to remain in, or to
refuse to leave Murry park, Westview park, Olivewood park, Noon Lions' park,
North park, or Zalud park between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   B.   The Zalud park tennis courts shall be excluded from such restriction as
stated in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Any person in violation of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 1219 §§ A–C, 10-28-1980)
ARTICLE II. PARKWAY TREES
SECTION:
19-31: Purpose
19-32: Definitions
19-33: Street Tree Guidelines
19-34: Tree Planting
19-35: Protection And Maintenance Of Street Trees
19-36: Topping
19-37: Interference Prohibited
19-38: Protection During Construction
19-39: Responsibility For Care And Maintenance
19-40: Trimming Heights
19-41: Trimming Specifications
19-42: Protection Of Rights Of Way
19-43: Quality Of Street Trees
19-44: Replacement Of Street Trees
19-45: Removal Of Stumps
19-46: Responsibility For Repair Of Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk
19-47: Responsibility For Repair Of Water Services
19-48: Responsibility For Repair Of Sewer Laterals
19-49: Plantings In New Developments
19-50: Street Trees Under Utility Lines
19-51: Public Health, Safety And Welfare
19-52: City's Right To Remove Street Trees
19-53: Unauthorized Removal Of Parkway Trees; Procedure For Replacement
19-54: Tree Removal; Public Utilities, And Others
19-55: City's Right To Perform Maintenance
19-56: Utility Company's Right To Perform Maintenance
19-57: City's Right To Remove Obstructions In Right Of Way
19-58: Street Tree Removal Permits
19-59: Abatement Of Trees Causing Obstruction
19-60: Appeal To Council
19-61: Liability
19-31: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to promote and regulate the planting, long term
care, maintenance, and protection of street trees within the city. (Ord. 1748,
11-18-2008)
19-32: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the words and terms used herein are defined
as follows:
   CITY: The city of Porterville.
   COMMISSION: The city of Porterville parks and leisure services commission.
   CROWN DRIP LINE: The outer perimeter of a tree's canopy.
   DIRECTOR: The city of Porterville parks and leisure services director.
   PARKWAY: That area of the public right of way that is between the back of
curb, or edge of pavement if no curb, and the right of way line that is not
covered by sidewalk. A parkway can also mean a tree well that is within a
sidewalk.
   PARKWAY TREE: Any tree or other plant, other than ground cover, located
within a parkway.
   PERSON: Individuals, associations, corporations, public agencies, joint
ventures, partnerships, contractors, and other agents or employees.
   PROPERTY OWNER: The owner of property directly adjacent to the public right
of way.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any street paving, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, water
pipes and appurtenances, sewer pipes and appurtenances, driveways or any other
publicly owned facility located in a publicly owned street right of way,
easement or on private property.
   STREET: Any public street, way, place, alley or other public property owned
or controlled by the city for the present or future use of pedestrians or
vehicles.
   STREET TREE: Any tree that is located within the public right of way, or any
tree within a street tree easement in or adjacent to the public right of way.
   TOP: The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches (3")
in diameter within a tree's crown drip line to such a degree so as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-33: STREET TREE GUIDELINES:
The city of Porterville is authorized to develop and administer guidelines for
the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition
of street trees. These guidelines shall be adopted by resolution of the city
council. The commission's recommendation shall be considered when adopting the
guidelines. The guidelines shall include an authorized species list, spacing
guidelines for each authorized species, specifications for street tree
planting, and specifications for nursery stock quality of street trees. The
guidelines shall be periodically reviewed and updated as needed. (Ord. 1748,
11-18-2008)
19-34: TREE PLANTING:
   A.   No parkway tree shall be planted by any person without prior approval
in writing of the director.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to plant or maintain any tree within ten
feet (10') of any public sidewalk, street, or curb, exclusive of alleys,
without approval of the director or as part of a discretionary permit approval.
Any person planting or maintaining trees contrary to this section may be
required, after notice and hearing by the commission, to remove said tree or
perform such corrective measures as may be deemed necessary by the commission.
(Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-35: PROTECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF STREET TREES:
   A.   Regulations: No street tree shall be altered, pruned, or removed except
in accordance with the provisions of this article and the adopted street tree
guidelines. No person shall cause any substance or material to be on or near a
street tree which shall restrict its natural growth or shall cause it damage.
No person, without the approval of the director, shall place or maintain any
stone, cement or other substance so that it shall impede the free access of
water or air to the roots of any parkway tree.
   B.   Attachment To Trees: No person, without the approval of the director,
shall attach or keep attached to any parkway tree, or to the guard or stake
intended for the protection thereof, any wire, rope, sign, or any other device
whatsoever. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-36: TOPPING:
Except as necessary to ensure public safety or as authorized by the director,
no person shall top any street tree or other tree located on public property.
Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or trees under utility wires
or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this section at the discretion of the director. (Ord. 1748, 11-
18-2008)
19-37: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
No person shall interfere with the director or persons acting under his
authority while engaged in planting, mulching, pruning, trimming, spraying,
treating or removing any parkway tree of the city, or in the removing of any
stone, cement or other substance from about the trunk of any parkway tree.
(Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-38: PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION:
Street trees shall be protected to the extent possible from damage during
construction, sidewalk repair, repair of utility structures and facilities
above and below ground, and other similar activities by the person conducting
the construction or activity. The zone of protection shall include the ground
beneath the crown drip line of the tree. Protection measures shall be included
in building permit applications when building permits are required for
construction. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-39: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CARE AND MAINTENANCE:
All watering and trimming of street trees for maintenance and beauty shall be
the responsibility of the adjoining property owner, unless these
responsibilities are fulfilled by a funding program authorized by the city,
such as, but not limited to, a homeowners' association or similar assessment
district. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-40: TRIMMING HEIGHTS:
Notwithstanding other provisions of this article, property owners shall keep
street trees adjoining their property and all private trees trimmed up to a
height of not less than twelve feet (12') over a street or alley, and up to a
height of not less than ten feet (10') over the parkway and sidewalk. (Ord.
1748, 11-18-2008)
19-41: TRIMMING SPECIFICATIONS:
All street trees shall be pruned in accordance with American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) A300 standards, as amended from time to time. A copy of the
standards shall be maintained by the director and made available for review
upon request. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-42: PROTECTION OF RIGHTS OF WAY:
Property owners shall keep public rights of way adjacent to owner's property
clear of debris. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-43: QUALITY OF STREET TREES:
New plantings of street trees shall be in accordance with the street tree
guidelines for nursery stock quality. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-44: REPLACEMENT OF STREET TREES:
Street trees removed by the director or by natural causes shall be replaced on
site, on a one for one basis. The location and species of any replacement tree
shall be determined by the director. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-45: REMOVAL OF STUMPS:
All stumps of removed street trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-46: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIR OF CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK:
Repair and/or replacement of curb, gutter, and sidewalk damaged by a tree is
the responsibility of the adjoining property owner. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-47: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIR OF WATER SERVICES:
Repair and/or replacement of water lines and other water infrastructure,
between the water meter and the structure, damaged by a tree shall be the
responsibility of the adjoining property owner. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-48: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIR OF SEWER LATERALS:
Repair and/or replacement of sewer laterals damaged by a tree shall be the
responsibility of the adjoining property owner. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-49: PLANTINGS IN NEW DEVELOPMENTS:
In new residential, commercial, and industrial developments, the developer
shall plant street trees in the size, number, manner, and type required by the
street tree guidelines and the city improvement standards. Funding for long
term maintenance and care of the street trees, and repair to infrastructure
damaged by the street trees, in new developments shall be provided through a
homeowners' association or a similar assessment district. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-
2008)
19-50: STREET TREES UNDER UTILITY LINES:
Street trees planted under utility lines shall be of an approved species
specified in the street tree guidelines. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-51: PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE:
The director shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, spray and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within public rights of way, as may be necessary to
ensure public safety and pedestrian clearance, and the long term health of the
trees. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-52: CITY'S RIGHT TO REMOVE STREET TREES:
No person shall severely prune, remove, injure or interfere with any parkway
tree without a permit therefor from the director.
   A.   The director may remove parkway trees at city expense for the following
reasons:
      1.   Trees threatening an immediate hazard to persons or property;
      2.   Trees directly in the way of the construction of public
improvements;
      3.   Dead trees.
   B.   The director may authorize the removal or alteration of parkway trees
at the property owner's expense or at the expense of other than the city when
said removal or alteration is, in the opinion of the director, necessary to
permit the alteration, repair, demolition or moving of any structure.
   C.   The commission may authorize the removal of parkway trees at city
expense for the following reasons:
      1.   Dying, decayed or potentially hazardous trees;
      2.   Trees diseased beyond reclamation;
      3.   Trees causing a visual hazard to the traveling public;
      4.   Trees hosting economically undesirable insects or diseases.
   D.   The commission may authorize the removal of parkway trees at the
expense of the property owner, or other than the city, for the following
reasons:
      1.   For property improvement when the commission finds that a better or
more suitable planting may be developed;
      2.   For thinning to proper spacing;
      3.   When the removal is for the purpose of repairing public
improvements;
      4.   For a more desirable planting or conformance with the approved tree
list.
   E.   The director shall advise the commission of all removals authorized by
the director under this section.
   F.   It is the intention of the city council to facilitate the planting of
new trees whenever trees are removed, and to bring about the repair of public
improvements damaged by parkway trees. In order to effect these purposes the
commission or director shall, whenever practicable, require the following
actions to be performed by the affected person as part of any removal
authorization:
      1.   Replacement of tree with a new tree of appropriate size;
      2.   Repair of any public improvements damaged by the tree to be removed.
The said replacement of tree or repair of public improvements specified in
subsections A and B of this section shall be agreed upon in writing by the
affected person prior to any removals hereunder, in a form approved by the city
attorney.
   G.   The director may refer any matter within the scope of subsections A and
B of this section to the commission as he deems appropriate.
   H.   All authorization for tree removals granted under this section shall be
valid for thirty (30) days following the date of said authorization. (Ord.
1748, 11-18-2008)
19-53: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF PARKWAY TREES; PROCEDURE FOR REPLACEMENT:
   A.   The owners of lots or portions of lots fronting on any portion of a
public right of way or parkway who have removed, or caused to be removed, any
parkway tree shall, within thirty (30) days following notice to replace, cause
said tree to be replaced with a variety of tree approved by this article.
   B.   Notice to replace may be given by delivering a written notice
personally to the owner or to the person in possession of the property facing
upon the parkway where said tree has been removed, or by mailing said written
notice, postage prepaid, to the person in possession of such property, or to
the owner thereof, at his last known address as the same appears on the last
equalized assessment records of the city of Porterville or to the name and
address of the person owning such property as shown in the records of the city
clerk. Said written notice shall contain a notice to replace said tree and the
director shall immediately upon mailing of the notice cause a copy thereof,
printed on a card of not less than eight inches by ten inches (8" x 10") in
size, to be posted in a conspicuous place on the property.
   C.   The notice shall particularly specify the types of trees that are
permitted for replacement and in the event any public improvement has been
damaged by the tree removal, the notice shall specify the work of public
improvement that is to be done, how it is to be done and what materials shall
be used in the repair; it shall further specify that if the tree is not
replaced and the repair is not commenced within thirty (30) days after notice
is given and diligently and without interruption prosecuted to completion, the
director shall make such repair and replacement and the cost of the same shall
be a lien on the property.
   D.   Upon completion of the replacement and repair by the city of
Porterville, the director shall cause notice of the cost of repair and
replacement to be given in the manner specified in this section for the giving
of written notice, which notice shall specify the day, hour and place when the
city council will hear and pass upon a report of the director of the cost of
repair and replacement, together with any objections or protests, if any, which
may be raised by any property owner liable to be assessed by the provisions of
this section or any other interested person.
   E.   Upon completion of the repair and replacement, the director shall
prepare and file with the city council a report specifying the trees which have
been replaced and the public improvements which have been repaired, the cost of
the tree replacement, the cost of the repairs, a description of the real
property in front of which the repairs have been made or trees replaced, and
the assessment against each lot or parcel of real property to be levied to pay
the cost thereof. Any such report may include the cost of repairs or tree
replacement of any number of parcels of property whether contiguous to each
other or not.
   F.   Upon the day and hour fixed for the hearing, the city council shall
hear and pass upon the report of the director together with any objections or
protests which may be raised by any of the property owners liable to be
assessed for the replacement of a parkway tree and for the work of making such
repair and any other interested person. Thereupon the city council may make
revision, correction or modification in the report as it may deem just, after
which, by motion or resolution, the report as submitted or as revised,
corrected or modified shall be confirmed. The city council may adjourn the
hearing from time to time. The decision of the city council on all protests and
objections that may be made shall be final and conclusive.
   G.   The cost of tree replacement and the cost of repair, if any, may be
assessed by the city council against the parcel of property fronting upon the
parkway where such tree has been replaced and repairs made, and cost so
assessed, and if not paid within five (5) days after its confirmation by the
legislative body, shall constitute a special assessment against that parcel of
property and shall be a lien on the property for the amount thereof, which lien
shall continue until the assessment and all interest thereon is paid or until
it is discharged of record.
   H.   The director may file in the office of the county recorder of Tulare a
certificate giving notice of the lien and a description of the real property so
assessed and the amount of the lien.
   I.   The lien shall be collected at the time and in the manner as ordinary
city taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same penalties and
interest and to the same procedure under foreclosure and sale in case of
delinquency as provided for ordinary city taxes. All laws applicable to the
levy, collection and enforcement of city taxes and county taxes are hereby made
applicable to such special assessment and lien. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-54: TREE REMOVAL; PUBLIC UTILITIES, AND OTHERS:
Any person maintaining any overhead wires, pipes, or underground conduits or
appurtenances along or across any street desiring to have any parkway tree
trimmed, pruned or removed in connection with the maintenance of its facilities
may file with the director a written request that such work be done. Such
request shall describe the work desired to be done, and it shall be within the
discretion of the director to require a written agreement upon the part of the
petitioner to pay the cost thereof and to do such work in the way stipulated by
the director before the issuance of any permit hereunder, including the
replacement of any trees removed hereunder. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-55: CITY'S RIGHT TO PERFORM MAINTENANCE:
The director shall have the right to prune a tree overhanging any street or
right of way within the city so that branches shall not severely obstruct the
light from any streetlamp or intersection, and so that there shall be a clear
space of twelve feet (12') above street surface or ten feet (10') above the
parkway and sidewalk surface. The director may enter upon and may prune any
tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of
light along the street from a streetlight, or interferes with visibility of any
traffic control device or sign or sight triangle at intersections. (Ord. 1748,
11-18-2008)
19-56: UTILITY COMPANY'S RIGHT TO PERFORM MAINTENANCE:
Tree limbs growing near overhead lines and utility facilities may be pruned to
clear such facilities by the affected utility company in compliance with
applicable franchise agreements with the city. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-57: CITY'S RIGHT TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS IN RIGHT OF WAY:
If, in the director's opinion, a real and significant vehicular sightline or
pedestrian obstruction or hazard is created by shrubs, hedges, and similar
vegetation within the parkway, the adjoining property owner shall be required
upon notification, to satisfactorily correct the situation within thirty (30)
days. Upon failure of the property owner to comply with written notice, the
director will cause such obstructions to be removed and will bill the property
owner for all costs involved. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-58: STREET TREE REMOVAL PERMITS:
The director shall establish a permit system to be used to authorize street
tree removal. The director shall use his or her discretion with respect to tree
removal permits as governed by this article and by the street tree guidelines.
No person will be authorized to remove trees covered by this article without
first having received a permit to do such work. Permits shall not be valid for
a period longer than thirty (30) days from issuance date. Exceptions, in the
discretion of the director, shall be those permits issued to public utilities
serving the area, which permits may be valid for a period of one year. (Ord.
1748, 11-18-2008)
19-59: ABATEMENT OF TREES CAUSING OBSTRUCTION:
   A.   Generally: It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or
occupying real property bordering on any street upon which property there may
be trees, to prune such trees in such manner that they will not obstruct or
shade the streetlights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks,
obstruct vision of traffic signs, or obstruct view of any street or alley
intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be
ten feet (10') over sidewalks, and twelve feet (12') over all streets except
truck thoroughfares which shall have a clearance of sixteen feet (16').
   B.   Notice To Prune: Should any person or persons owning real property
bordering on any street fail to prune trees as hereinabove provided, the
director shall order such person or persons, within ten (10) working days after
receipt of written notice, to so prune such trees.
   C.   Order Required: The order required herein shall be served by mailing a
copy of the order to the last known address of the property owner, by certified
mail.
   D.   Failure To Comply: When a person to whom an order is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, it shall be lawful for the
municipality to prune such trees, and the exact cost thereof shall be assessed
to the owner. The administrative services director or designee shall, at the
appropriate time each year, cause to be filed with the tax assessor of the
county a description of the property together with the name of the owner or
reputed owner thereof against which such special assessment shall be made, and
the installment then due and unpaid with accruing interest, may be assessed as
taxes against the owner or reputed owner of the real property, and the amount
of money so assessed shall bear the same penalties and interest as taxes
regularly assessed on default of payment thereof. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-60: APPEAL TO COUNCIL:
Any interested person may appeal, in writing, a decision of the director
regarding a removal permit, setting forth his/her reason(s) for such appeal to
the commission. Such appeal shall be filed with the city clerk within ten (10)
business days after the notice of the director's decision.
Any interested person may appeal a decision of the commission to the city
council if a request therefor is filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days
after notice of the commission's decision. The appeal shall be placed on the
agenda of the council's next regular meeting after the appeal is filed. If the
appeal is filed within ten (10) business days of the council's next regular
meeting, the appeal shall be placed on the agenda of the council's second
regular meeting following the filing of the appeal. It shall be the duty of the
director to notify the property owner or other affected person of the time and
place any appeal will be heard, such notice to be given at least ten (10) days
prior to said hearing. The council shall consider the appeal and uphold,
reverse, or modify the decision of the director. The decision of the council
shall be final. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
19-61: LIABILITY:
Nothing in this article shall impose any liability upon the city, or members of
the council, or any of its officials or employees, nor relieve the property
owner or occupant of any private property from the duty to keep his or her
private property, sidewalks, and rights of way abutting such private property
in a safe condition. (Ord. 1748, 11-18-2008)
ARTICLE III. PARK IMPACT FEE
SECTION:
19-42: Purpose
19-43: Park Impact Fee Established
19-44: Limited Use Of Fees
19-42: PURPOSE:
In order to implement the goals and objectives of the parks and recreation
element of the city's general plan to acquire and develop park facilities,
parks must be constructed or expanded commensurate with growth of the city. The
city council has determined that a park impact fee is needed in order to assist
in the financing of these public park improvements and to pay for new
development's fair share, excluding expansion of existing development within
the boundaries of the existing legally defined property, of the acquisition and
development costs of these improvements. In establishing the fee described
below, the city council has found the fee to be consistent with its general
plan and, pursuant to Government Code section 66000. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
19-43: PARK IMPACT FEE ESTABLISHED:
A park impact fee is hereby established on issuance of certificate of occupancy
for new development, excluding expansion of existing development, in the city.
The city council shall, in a council resolution, set forth the specific amount
of the fee, describe the benefit and impact area on which the park impact fee
is imposed, list the specific public improvements to be financed, describe the
estimated cost of these facilities, describe the reasonable relationships
between this fee and the various types of new development and set forth time
for payment. As described in the fee resolution, this impact fee shall be paid
prior to issuance of certificate of occupancy. On an annual basis, the fee
shall be adjusted by the director of the public works department, or designee,
in accordance with the "Engineering News Record Construction Cost Index"
publication. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
19-44: LIMITED USE OF FEES:
The revenues raised by payment of this fee shall be placed in a separate and
special account and such revenues, along with any interest earnings on that
account, shall be used solely to: a) pay for the city's future acquisition and
development of new or expanded park facilities described in the resolution
enacted with this article. (Ord. 1567 § 1, 1-19-1999)
ARTICLE IV. SKATEPARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
19-45: Purpose And Intent
19-46: Helmet And Pads Required
19-47: Facility/Park Signs And Rules
19-48: Violations, Enforcement And Penalties
19-49: Severability
19-45: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city council finds and declares that the purpose of this article is to
comply with California Health and Safety Code section 115800 with regard to the
operation of any and all skateboard parks and facilities operated by the city,
as well as to set forth basic requirements for use of such parks and
facilities. (Ord. 1708 § 1, 11-7-2006)
19-46: HELMET AND PADS REQUIRED:
In any skateboard park or facility owned or operated by the city, any person
riding a skateboard, in-line skates, a bicycle or similar device shall wear a
helmet, elbow pads, and knee pads. (Ord. 1708 § 1, 11-7-2006)
19-47: FACILITY/PARK SIGNS AND RULES:
   A.   The parks and leisure services department shall cause a sign or signs
to be posted at all such parks or facilities providing reasonable notice of
section 19-46 of this article and stating that any person failing to comply
with this section will be subject to citation in accordance with this article
and the city's applicable regulations.
   B.   The parks and leisure services commission shall prepare additional
rules for use of city owned skateboard facilities consistent with this article.
The rules shall be posted at the applicable facility(ies) and shall state that
any person that fails to comply with these rules will be subject to citation in
accordance with this article and the city's applicable regulations. (Ord. 1708
§ 1, 11-7-2006)
19-48: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any violation of section
19-46 of this article and/or the posted rules shall be deemed to be a
misdemeanor, and punishable as such; however, at the discretion of the city
attorney, the violation may be filed and charged as an infraction. The
complaint charging such violation shall specify whether the violation is a
misdemeanor or an infraction. Any person found guilty of an infraction shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
violation in a one year period, a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the second violation in a one year period, and a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for third and subsequent violations,
charged as infractions, in a one year period. Individuals found guilty of a
misdemeanor under this article shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed sixty (60) days in
jail, or both, in the discretion of the court. In addition to the provisions of
this section, subsequent violations of this article by the same person within
one hundred twenty (120) days may, in the discretion of the city attorney,
constitute a misdemeanor. Violators may, in the discretion of the city attorney
and with approval of the court, be referred to an appropriate community service
program, in the alternative or in addition to the penalty provisions of this
section, if such program is available.
   B.   Notwithstanding the police department's ability to confiscate a
skateboard as an instrumentality or evidence of a violation of this article,
and in addition to the enforcement provisions of subsection A of this section,
the city may seize and hold the skateboard at the time an individual is cited
for any violation of any provisions of this article for the second time within
a one year period 1 . Any time a violator's property is confiscated pursuant to
this section, the city shall provide the violator with a receipt and notice of
a time and location for an automatic hearing in front of the city's designated
administrative hearing officer no later than ten (10) days from confiscation of
the skateboard. The violator shall be entitled to the return of the skateboard
either one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of the confiscation, or at
the time as determined at the conclusion of the hearing.
   C.   Any person who fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of
section
19-46 of this article and who is injured while using the park or facility shall
be deemed negligent.
   D.   A violation of any of the provisions of this article shall constitute a
nuisance and may be abated by the city through a civil process by means of
restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or in any manner
provided by law for the abatement of such nuisances. With regard to violations
committed by minors, the parent or legal guardian having control or custody of
the minor whose conduct violates this section shall be jointly and severally
liable with the minor for all penalties and/or costs and fees.
   E.   The city shall be entitled to recover all attorney fees and costs
incurred in the filing or prosecution of any action or administrative
proceeding brought to enforce any provision(s) of this article. (Ord. 1708 § 1,
11-7-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 18-69 of this code.
19-49: SEVERABILITY:
It is declared to be the intention of the city council that the subsections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this article are distinct and
severable and, in the event that any subsections, paragraphs, clauses and/or
phrases are declared to be unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity, or
unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining subsections, paragraphs,
clauses, or phrases of this article. (Ord. 1708 § 1, 11-7-2006)
CHAPTER 19A
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
19A-1: Definitions
19A-2: Permit Required To Construct Storm Drainage System
19A-3: Private Or Single Purpose Storm Drains
19A-4: Storm Drainage Systems
19A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   CONNECTION: The act of installing and/or constructing any improvement with
the purpose of allowing storm water runoff to directly or indirectly enter a
storm drainage system from or because of such improvement.
   DEVELOPER: Any individual, firm, association, corporation, partnership,
trust or other legal entity engaging in development.
   DEVELOPMENT: The construction or arranging for the construction of
buildings, dwellings or any other improvements or property not previously
developed that would increase the storm water runoff.
   PRIVATE OR SINGLE PURPOSE STORM DRAINS: Any storm drainage system not within
public streets, alleys, easements or property, or which is specifically
intended to benefit a specific property and/or development and not the general
area as a whole.
   REDEVELOPER: Any individual, firm, association, corporation, partnership,
trust or other legal entity engaged in redevelopment.
   REDEVELOPMENT: The construction or arranging for the construction of
buildings or dwellings or additions thereto, or any other improvements on
property previously developed that would increase the storm water runoff.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Any improvement specifically intended for the
conveyance and/or retention of storm water runoff which is located within
public streets, alleys, easements or property and which benefits the general
area as a whole.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF: All that rainwater arriving at and/or originating on the
property being developed or redeveloped which by reason of topography, geology
or any other obstruction is not retained and which does not infiltrate into the
ground within the confines of the property being developed or redeveloped by
means or methods considered to be a "storm drainage system" as herein defined.
   SUBDIVIDER: The same as defined in
chapter 21 of this code.
   SUBDIVISION OR DIVISION OF LAND: The same as defined in
chapter 21 of this code. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-2: PERMIT REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCT STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a storm drainage system in a
public street, alley, easement or property without first receiving a permit to
do so and complying with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-3: PRIVATE OR SINGLE PURPOSE STORM DRAINS:
This chapter is not intended to provide funding for planning, engineering,
administration and construction of private or single purpose storm drains which
are not within public streets, alleys, easements or property, or which are
specifically intended to benefit a specific property and/or development and not
the general area as a whole. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-4: STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS:
This chapter is intended to provide for planning, engineering, administration
and construction of storm drainage systems which will be constructed within
public streets, alleys, easements or property and which benefit the general
area as whole, and are required for the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the city.
Storm drainage systems would include all necessary rights of way, property and
improvements specifically intended for the conveyance and/or retention of storm
water runoff excluding street improvements, such as curb and gutters, cross
gutters, sidewalks, driveways, "V" gutters and paving; and all other
improvements not specifically intended for the conveyance and/or retention of
storm water runoff unless such improvements are damaged or destroyed because of
construction of a storm drainage system then it shall be considered that the
repair or replacement of such improvements are part of the storm drainage
system. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
ARTICLE II. ACREAGE CHARGE
SECTION:
19A-11: Generally
19A-12: Construction Fund
19A-11: GENERALLY:
Before development or redevelopment of any property, there shall be paid a
storm drainage systems acreage charge in accordance with the cost per acre as
established by resolution of the city council.
The charge shall be used to reimburse the city for construction of storm
drainage systems, to provide the city with funds for construction of storm
drainage systems and to reimburse others who have constructed or advanced the
cost of construction of storm drainage systems. The charge shall be paid to the
city prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for development or
redevelopment of any property. However, the charge shall not apply to
redevelopment of any property unless the cost of said redevelopment exceeds
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) within a twelve (12) month period. This
valuation is to be adjusted, by resolution, each year to reflect changes in the
cost of construction as indicated in the "Engineering News Record".
Property for which development or redevelopment is being proposed which has
already had the charge paid to the city, will not again be subject to the
charge.
The charge shall be computed on the gross area of the property being improved,
such area being defined as the parcel of land being developed or redeveloped
including half of all adjacent dedicated streets and alleys, and all of
interior dedicated streets and alleys.
The charge shall be levied and payable prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for a building constructed on any property within the city. (Ord.
1754, 6-2-2009)
19A-12: CONSTRUCTION FUND:
There is hereby established and set up a storm drainage systems construction
fund. All money collected from the storm drainage systems acreage charge shall
be placed in said fund and disbursed therefrom to reimburse the city for
construction of storm drainage systems, to provide the city with funds for
construction of storm drainage systems and to reimburse others who have
constructed or advanced the cost of construction of storm drainage systems as
provided for in this chapter. All interest earned on monies deposited in the
fund shall be retained in the fund. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
ARTICLE III. FUNDING AND/OR CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
19A-19: Generally
19A-20: When Feasible
19A-21: When Not Feasible
19A-19: GENERALLY:
The city council may review proposed development or redevelopment of property
to determine the necessity of storm drain systems. Said review may be requested
by any affected property owner, developer, redeveloper or the city engineer.
(Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-20: WHEN FEASIBLE:
If in the opinion of the city council a storm drainage system is necessary and
feasible and the fund and/or the charges to be collected are sufficient to
guarantee the construction of the storm drainage system, then the city council
may make direction to proceed in accordance with article IV of this chapter.
(Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-21: WHEN NOT FEASIBLE:
If in the opinion of the city council, construction of a storm drainage system
is not feasible because the construction fund and/or the charges to be
collected are insufficient to guarantee the construction of the storm drainage
system, then the city council may pass a resolution in accordance with one of
the following:
   A.   That the request, development or redevelopment is premature to the
basic development or redevelopment of the general area as a whole and that such
request, development or redevelopment is denied or held in abeyance.
   B.   That in the case of development or redevelopment that the developer or
redeveloper pay such charges due as set forth in this chapter and detain on
site all stormwater runoff from said development or redevelopment by means or
methods approved by the city engineer in such a way as to not cause any damage
to properties receiving stormwater overflows.
   C.   That the request, development or redevelopment necessitates a storm
drainage system and that the construction thereof is not feasible only because
the construction fund and/or the charges to be collected are deemed
insufficient as set forth herein, and therefore said property owner, developer
or redeveloper may pay such charges due as set forth in this chapter and
construct or advance the cost of construction of the storm drainage system and
that said costs over and above that which can be borne by the construction fund
be reimbursed to the said property owner, developer or redeveloper, providing
that the source of such reimbursement funds be the charges collected from other
users of said storm drainage system and providing that such agreement terminate
within twenty (20) years of the date thereof. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
ARTICLE IV. CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
19A-28: Preparation Of Plans And Specifications
19A-29: Plans And Specifications Put Out For Bid; Submission Of Bids; Action On
Bids; Administration Of Contract
19A-30: Inspection Of Construction; Responsibility For Compliance
19A-31: Progress Or Partial Payments (Rep. by Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
19A-32: Acceptance Of Work; Notice Of Completion
19A-33: Final Payment
19A-28: PREPARATION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
In accordance with article III of this chapter, the city council shall cause
plans and specifications for the construction thereof to be prepared by the
city excepting that for those developments which are subject to the provisions
of
chapter 21 of this code (subdivisions, or divisions of land), the city council
shall have the authority to cause the subdivider to prepare the plans and
specifications for the construction thereof. All such plans and specifications
shall be prepared to the satisfaction of the city engineer and the city
engineer's signature thereon shall indicate his approval thereof. (Ord. 1104,
3-15-1977)
19A-29: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS PUT OUT FOR BID; SUBMISSION OF BIDS; ACTION ON
BIDS; ADMINISTRATION OF CONTRACT:
Immediately after approval of the plans and specifications as provided for in
section
19A-28 of this article, the calling for bids shall be authorized in conformance
with the provisions of this code. The city shall call for bids on all plans and
specifications excepting that the city council shall have the authority to
cause the subdivider to call for bids on the plans and specifications which the
subdivider prepared as provided for in section
19A-28 of this article.
All bids received, including those received by the subdivider, shall be
submitted to the city council for acceptance or rejection. Should the city
council decide to reject all bids, it shall be the responsibility of the city
council to recommend and resolve as to what, if any, further action is to be
taken concerning the storm drainage system. Should the city council decide to
accept certain bids, and reject all other bids, it shall be the responsibility
of the city to issue and administer all contracts for construction of storm
drainage systems excepting that the city council shall have the authority to
cause the subdivider to issue and administer contracts for construction of
storm drainage systems for which the subdivider had prepared the plans and
specifications as provided for in section
19A-28 of this article. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-30: INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION; RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE:
It shall be the responsibility of the city to inspect the construction of all
storm drainage systems for compliance with the approved plans and
specifications and with all applicable standards, codes and ordinances.
The responsibility for compliance with the approved plans and specifications
and with all applicable standards, codes and ordinances shall be with the
contractor for contracts being administered by the city and with the
subdivider, for contracts being administered by the subdivider, both as
provided for in section
19A-29 of this article. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-31: PROGRESS OR PARTIAL PAYMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
19A-32: ACCEPTANCE OF WORK; NOTICE OF COMPLETION:
Upon certification of the city engineer that all of the work complies with the
approved plans and specifications and with all applicable standards, codes and
ordinances and is completed in its entirety, the city council will accept the
work and file a notice of completion. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-33: FINAL PAYMENT:
Upon the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of the notice of
completion and upon full occupancy of the development or phased development,
money shall be disbursed from the storm drainage systems construction fund to
pay for or to reimburse others for the cost of all the work referred to in said
notice of completion; said money disbursed shall be the actual value of the
work completed, as determined by the city engineer.
Developer shall submit all documentation necessary to support final payment
within ninety (90) days of full occupancy of the development or phased
development. Failure to do so shall void developer's right to request
reimbursements. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
ARTICLE V. CONNECTION
SECTION:
19A-40: Acreage Fee
19A-41: Permit Required For Connection
19A-42: Connection To Storm Drainage System To Benefit Property Outside City
Boundaries
19A-40: ACREAGE FEE:
   A.   Purpose: In order to implement the goals and objectives of the storm
drain master plan of the city, and to provide needed storm drainage facilities
for new development in the planning area, certain public storm drain facilities
must be constructed. The city council has determined that a development impact
fee is needed in order to finance these public improvements and to pay for the
development's fair share of the construction costs of these improvements. In
establishing the fee described below, the city council has found the fee to be
consistent with its general plan and, pursuant to Government Code section
65913.2, has considered the effects of the fee with respect to the city's
housing needs as established in the housing element of the general plan.
   B.   Established: An acreage fee is hereby established, upon issuance of
certificate of occupancy for development in the city, or upon creation of any
additional runoff to the city's storm drain system to pay for storm drainage
improvements. The city council shall, in a council resolution, set forth the
specific amount of the fee, describe the benefit and impact area on which the
development fee is imposed, list the specific public improvements to be
financed, describe the estimated cost of these facilities, describe the
reasonable relationships between this fee and the various types of new
development and set forth time for payment. As described in the fee resolution,
this development fee shall be paid by each developer prior to issuance of
certificate of occupancy or upon creation of any additional runoff to the
city's storm drain system. On an annual basis, this fee shall be adjusted by
the public works director or designee in accordance with the "Engineering News
Record Construction Cost Index" publication.
   C.   Limited Use Of Fees: The revenues raised by payment of this fee shall
be placed in a separate and special account and such revenues, along with any
interest earnings on that account, shall be used solely to:
      1.   Pay for the city's future construction of storm drainage facilities
described in the resolution enacted with this chapter, or to reimburse the city
for those described or listed facilities constructed by the city with funds
advanced by the city from other sources; or
      2.   Reimburse developers who have been required or permitted as set
forth below, to install such listed facilities which are oversized with
supplemental size, length, or capacity.
   D.   Developer Construction Of Facilities: Whenever a developer is required,
as a condition of approval of a development permit, to construct a public
facility described in a resolution adopted pursuant to this section, and when
such construction is necessary to ensure efficient and timely construction of
the facilities network, a reimbursement agreement with the developer shall be
offered. The reimbursement amount shall not exceed the actual cost of the
construction of the facility by the developer. In the event the actual
construction cost of the facility exceeds the fee required of the development
project, the city shall enter into a reimbursement agreement for the cost in
excess of the fee required for the project, to be paid from the special account
established pursuant to this section. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
19A-41: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION:
No person shall make connection to a storm drainage system without first
obtaining a permit to do so and complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
19A-42: CONNECTION TO STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM TO BENEFIT PROPERTY OUTSIDE CITY
BOUNDARIES:
The city council may, at its sole discretion, elect to make available the city
storm drainage systems to benefit property outside the city boundaries, said
property so benefited shall be subject to the storm drainage system acreage
charge as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 1104, 3-15-1977)
CHAPTER 20
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
20-0: Sidewalk Defined
20-0.5: Person Defined
20-1: Obstructions Generally; Riding Or Driving Bicycles, Animals, Or Vehicles
On Sidewalks
20-1.1: Skateboards Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 1661 § 1, 3-1-2005)
20-1.2: Occupancy Of Public Right Of Way
20-1.3: Encroachment Agreement; Defined
20-2: Repair Of Sidewalks And Curbs; Required; Notice
20-2.5: Repair Of Sidewalks And Curbs; Maintenance By Lot Owners
20-3: Repair Of Sidewalks And Curbs; Work Performed By Contract With City Upon
Failure Of Abutting Owner To Proceed After Notice; Certificate Of Completion;
Lien
20-4: Repair Of Sidewalks And Curbs; Collection Of Costs
20-5: Plans, Profiles And Cross Sections For Sidewalk Construction
20-6: Unnecessary Noise
20-0: SIDEWALK DEFINED:
As used in this chapter, "sidewalk" includes a park or parking strip maintained
in the area between the property line and the street line and also includes
curbing, bulkheads, retaining walls or other works for the protection of any
sidewalk or of any such park or parking strip. (Ord. 1365 § A(1), 11-18-1986)
20-0.5: PERSON DEFINED:
A "person" shall be defined as any individual, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, association, corporation, company, railroad entity, estate, trust, the
state of California, all public districts and other political subdivisions or
governmental entities of the state of California, but excluding the city of
Porterville, and any group or combination acting as a unit. (Ord. 1756, 8-4-
2009)
20-1: OBSTRUCTIONS GENERALLY; RIDING OR DRIVING BICYCLES, ANIMALS, OR VEHICLES
ON SIDEWALKS:
Any person who obstructs with machinery, vehicles or merchandise or in any
manner, any street, alley or sidewalk, in such manner as to impede, delay or
endanger travel thereon, or shall ride or drive or cause to be ridden or driven
any horses, mules, hogs, sheep or cattle, bicycles or other vehicles on any
sidewalk in the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Each day that any provision of this article is
violated is a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as a
separate and distinct offense. Notwithstanding the classification of a
violation of this article as a misdemeanor, at the time an action is commenced
to enforce the provisions of this article, the trial court, upon recommendation
of the prosecuting attorney, may reduce the charged offense from a misdemeanor
to an infraction. Any person convicted of an infraction under this article
shall be punished by:
   A.   A fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation;
   B.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second
violation of this article within one year; and
   C.   A fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
additional violation of this article within one year.
Street vendors/peddlers utilizing pushcarts (walking type) licensed by the city
in compliance with section
15-8 of this code shall be exempt from this section to the extent that said
pushcarts do not endanger travel. (Ord. Code § 3311; Ord. 1531 § D1, 6-18-1996)
20-1.1: SKATEBOARDS PROHIBITED 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 1661 § 1, 3-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 18-61 through 18-69 and subsection 19-48B of this code.
20-1.2: OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
Except as provided by section
20-57 of this chapter pertaining to Porterville redevelopment project area no.
1, any person who constructs or affixes, or causes to be constructed or
affixed, any structure, sign, canopy, awning, lighting fixture, or any other
device, equipment or fixture which projects into the public right of way beyond
the property line of a building site, without first having obtained approval
from the city council by way of an encroachment agreement, is guilty of an
infraction. (Ord. 1498 § 1, 6-7-1994; Ord. 1872, 6-2-2020)
20-1.3: ENCROACHMENT AGREEMENT; DEFINED:
An agreement between the city and the owner of real property located within the
city permitting the property owner who is a party to the agreement to construct
or place temporary or permanent improvements, structures, signs, awnings,
fences, fixtures, or other similar appurtenant structures, within the public
right of way owned by the city and adjacent to the real property described in
the agreement, and which is subject to the terms, covenants and conditions
contained therein. (Ord. 1498 § 2, 6-7-1994)
20-2: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND CURBS; REQUIRED; NOTICE:
When any portion of any improved public street in the city or any sidewalk or
curb constructed thereon shall be out of repair or pending reconstruction, and
in condition to endanger persons or property passing thereon, or in condition
to interfere with the public convenience in the use thereof, it shall be the
duty of the superintendent of streets, or such other person as shall be
appointed or delegated by the council or the city manager for that purpose, to
require, by notice in writing, to be delivered to them, or their agent
personally, or left on the premises, or mailed to their last known address, the
owners or occupants to forthwith proceed to do the work necessary to be done,
and such notice shall particularly specify what work is required to be done,
and how the same is to be done and what materials shall be used, if any are
required. (Ord. Code § 4221)
20-2.5: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND CURBS; MAINTENANCE BY LOT OWNERS:
The owners of lots or portions of lots fronting on any portion of a public
street or place when that street or place is improved or, if and when the area
between the property line of the adjacent property and the street line is
maintained as a park or parking strip, shall maintain any sidewalk in such
condition that the sidewalk will not endanger persons or property and maintain
it in a condition which will not interfere with the public convenience in the
use of those works or areas, save and except as to those conditions created or
maintained in, upon, along, or in connection with such sidewalk by any person
other than the owner, under and by virtue of any permit or right granted to him
by law or by the city authorities in charge thereof, and such persons shall be
under a like duty in relation thereto. (Ord. 1365 § A(2), 11-18-1986)
20-3: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND CURBS; WORK PERFORMED BY CONTRACT WITH CITY UPON
FAILURE OF ABUTTING OWNER TO PROCEED AFTER NOTICE; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION;
LIEN 1 :
If the work required by the notice specified in section
20-2 of this article shall not be commenced within thirty (30) days after
notice is given as aforesaid, and diligently and without interruption
prosecuted to completion, the official may, under the authority of this
section, proceed to do the work called for by the aforesaid notice, or enter
into a contract in the name of the city with any suitable person, at the
expense of the owner, tenant or occupant, after the specifications for doing of
such work shall have been conspicuously posted by him in his office for two (2)
days, inviting bids for doing such work, which bids shall be delivered to him
at his office on or before the second day of such posting, and opened by him on
the next day following the expiration of such two (2) days of posting, and the
contract by him be awarded to the lowest bidder, if in the judgment of such
official such lowest bid is reasonable. All of such bids shall be preserved in
his office and open at all times after the letting of the contract to the
inspection of all persons, and such owner, tenant or occupant shall be liable
to pay such contract price. Such work shall be commenced within twenty four
(24) hours after the contract shall have been signed, and completed without
delay to the satisfaction of the city official, and when so satisfactorily
completed, the official shall make and deliver to such contractor a certificate
to the effect that such work has been properly done by such contractor
according to specifications, and that the charges for the same are reasonable
and just, and that the official, has accepted the same. Such certificate of
completion shall be recorded in a book kept for the purpose in the office of
the city clerk, and when so recorded the sum to be paid shall be a lien against
the property affected. (Ord. 1537 § B61, 8-6-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 61 for letting of contracts.
20-4: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND CURBS; COLLECTION OF COSTS:
When the work required by the notice provided in section
20-3 of this article shall have been completed, either by the city official, or
by contractor as hereinbefore set forth, and a certificate of acceptance and
completion or of performance by the city recorded as aforesaid, the charges for
the costs of doing such work shall be due and payable to the city on demand.
This demand shall be made by a bill or charges for such work presented
personally to the owner, tenant, occupant or agent, or mailed to their last
known address, or posted on the property, and if same shall not be paid within
thirty (30) days from the date of such demand the city shall pay the contractor
from the appropriate city fund the amount due him on his contract for doing
such work, and may then proceed to dun the owner, tenant or occupant for the
amount of such charges to be paid, and the certificate of such official shall
be prima facie evidence that the amount claimed for such work and materials is
correct, and of the right of the city to recover the same in such action; or,
the city council may by resolution order that such unpaid charges be added to
and become a part of the municipal taxes against the property affected by such
work, payable in the same manner, and subject to all the regulations, penalties
and charges as such municipal taxes on real property in the city.
Any tenant or lessee of the lands or lots made liable by this chapter, may pay
the amount assessed or charged against the property of which he is the tenant
or lessee under the provisions of this chapter, together with all accrued
costs, either before or after suit has been brought, or he may redeem the
property if sold on execution or decree for the benefit of the owner, within
the time prescribed by law, and deduct the amount so paid from the rents due
and to become due from him, and for any sums so paid beyond the rents due from
him, he shall have a lien upon and may retain possession of such land and lots
until the amount so paid and advanced be satisfied, with legal interest, from
accruing rents, or by payment by the owner. (Ord. Code § 4221.2)
20-5: PLANS, PROFILES AND CROSS SECTIONS FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
All sidewalk construction shall be done in accordance with the plans, profiles
and cross sections on file in the office of the city engineer, should such
plans, profiles and cross sections have been adopted for the work, and all work
shall, during its progress and on its completion, conform to the lines and
levels which may, from time to time, be given by the city engineer. (Ord. Code
§ 3321.1)
20-6: UNNECESSARY NOISE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sound or cause or permit to be used or
sounded, in or upon any public street any bell, siren, chime, gong, horn,
whistle or other alarm, except when necessary to give warning, or when
authorized by permit from the chief of police to do so. (Ord. Code § 9181)
ARTICLE II. STREET EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
20-7: Definitions
20-8: Excavation Permit; Required Generally; Compliance With Article
Prerequisite To Issuance
20-9: Excavation Permit; Persons To Whom Annual Permit May Be Issued
20-10: Excavation Permit; Application
20-11: Excavation Permit; Deposit Required With Application; Exception
20-12: Excavation Permit; Fee
20-13: Excavation Permit; Insurance Prerequisite To Issuance
20-14: Free Movement Of Traffic Maintained If Possible; Closing Of Streets When
Necessary; Notice To Public Agencies And General Public
20-15: Specifications For Warning Signs And Lights
20-16: Interference With Fire Hydrants, Water Gates, Etc.
20-17: Safe Traffic Crossings Required
20-18: Relocation And Protection Of Utilities
20-19: Abandonment Of Substructures
20-20: Protection Of Adjoining Property Generally
20-21: Required Barriers And Warning Devices
20-22: Disposition Of Excavated Material; Safety Requirements For Trench And
Tunnel Excavations Generally
20-23: Cleaning Up Of Rubbish, Debris, Etc.
20-24: Protection Of Watercourse
20-25: Breaking Through Or Cutting Pavement
20-26: Depth Of Subsurface Structures
20-27: Backfilling
20-28: Restoration Of Surface; Generally
20-29: Restoration Of Surface; Right Of City To Designate Person To Do
Resurfacing
20-30: Restoration Of Surface; Specifications And Requirements
20-31: Maximum Length Of Trenches
20-32: Duty Of Permittee To Expedite Work; Generally
20-33: Duty Of Permittee To Expedite Work; Urgent Work
20-34: Applicability Of Article To Emergency Action
20-35: Control Of Noise, Dust And Debris
20-36: Preservation Of Monuments
20-37: Inspections
20-38: Maintenance Of Drawings Of Subsurface Structures
20-38.1: Railroad Crossings; Safety And Maintenance
20-39: Liability Of City
20-7: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein.
When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY: The city manager or his delegated representative
of the city.
   EXCAVATION: Any opening in the surface of a public place made in any manner
whatsoever, except an opening into a lawful structure below the surface of a
public place, the top of which is flush with the adjoining surface and so
constructed as to permit frequent openings without injury or damage to the
public place.
   FACILITY: Pipe, pipeline, tube, main, service, trap, vent, vault, manhole,
meter, gauge, regulator, valve, conduit, wire, tower, pole, pole line, anchor,
cable, junction box, transformer or any other material, structure, or object of
any kind or character, whether enumerated herein or not, which is or may be
lawfully constructed, left, placed, maintained in, upon, along, across, under
or over any public place.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, company, railroad entity, estate, trust, the state of California,
all public districts and other political subdivisions or governmental entities
of the state of California, but excluding the city of Porterville, and any
group or combination acting as a unit.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any public street, way, place, alley, sidewalk, park, square,
plaza or any other public property owned or controlled by any governmental
agency in a governmental capacity.
   SUBSTRUCTURE: Any pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel, manhole, vault, buried cable,
or wire, or any other structure located below the surface of any public place.
(Ord. 1756, 8-4-2009)
20-8: EXCAVATION PERMIT; REQUIRED GENERALLY; COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE
PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE:
No person shall make an excavation or fill any excavation in any public place
without first obtaining a permit so to do from the administrative authority,
except as otherwise provided in this article. No permit to make an excavation
or fill an excavation in a public place shall be issued except as provided in
this article. (Ord. 684 § 3)
20-9: EXCAVATION PERMIT; PERSONS TO WHOM ANNUAL PERMIT MAY BE ISSUED:
The administrative authority may issue an annual blanket permit for the purpose
of placing, replacing or repairing any facility within a public place where the
opening or excavation does not exceed two feet (2') in width and four feet (4')
in length, to the following:
   A.   A public utility regulated by the public utilities commission of the
state.
   B.   A person holding a franchise from the city.
   C.   The water, electric and gas departments of the city. (Ord. 684 § 3)
20-10: EXCAVATION PERMIT; APPLICATION:
No excavation permit shall be issued unless a written application, on a form
provided by the administrative authority, for the issuance of an excavation
permit is submitted to the administrative authority. The written application
shall state the name and address and principal place of business of the
applicant, the authority of applicant to occupy the public place for which the
permit is sought, the location and dimensions of the installation or removal
for which excavation is to be made, the purpose of the facility and the length
of time which will be required to complete such work, including backfilling
such excavation and removing all obstructions, material and debris. The
application, when approved and signed by the administrative authority, shall
constitute a permit. (Ord. 684 § 4)
20-11: EXCAVATION PERMIT; DEPOSIT REQUIRED WITH APPLICATION; EXCEPTION:
The application for an excavation permit to perform excavation work under this
article shall be accompanied by a performance bond or cash in the amount of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
Any person required to file a performance bond or cash under this section may
file said bond with or pay said cash to the city in any amount not less than
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) as a continuing deposit and said deposit shall
satisfy the requirements of this section so long as said amount satisfied the
aggregate amount required of said person at any one time for excavation under
this article.
Any deposit made hereunder shall serve as security for the repair and
performance of work necessary to put the public place in as good a condition as
it was prior to the excavation.
Thirty (30) days (or as soon thereafter as possible) after satisfactory
completion of the work as determined by administrative authority the bond shall
be released or the cash deposit shall be returned to the permittee; provided,
however, that the bonding company may be required or the cash may be used by
the city to complete any work not satisfactorily completed by the permittee and
the amount of the cash deposit refunded to the permittee shall be decreased by
the amount expended by the city in the completion of the work; provided,
however, that in the case of a continuing deposit no release of the bond shall
be given nor shall any cash be refunded except upon the written request of the
permittee.
In the case of excavations by public utility companies operating under a
franchise issued by the city or under the supervision of the public utilities
commission or utilities operated by governmental agencies a permit may be
granted without making such deposit, but in such cases, the utilities shall be
liable for the actual cost of any work required to be done by the city in
restoring the area covered by such excavations to as good a condition as the
same was in before such work was done; further provided, that the city may, in
the future, require such deposit from such utility if a bill rendered in
accordance with this section remains unpaid thirty (30) days after billing.
(Ord. 1537 § B62, 8-6-1996)
20-12: EXCAVATION PERMIT; FEE:
A permit fee shall be charged by the administrative authority for the issuance
of an excavation permit. The fee for a permit shall be fixed by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 684 § 5; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
20-13: EXCAVATION PERMIT; INSURANCE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE:
Before an excavation permit, as provided in this article, is issued the
applicant shall provide to the administrative authority proof that the
applicant has in full force and effect with a reputable insurance company
permitted to do business in the state of California liability insurance
insuring said applicant in the performance of the work covered by the
excavation permit in the minimum amounts set forth by resolution.
The city may require that the applicant deposit with the city a certificate of
said indemnity insurance prior to issuing the excavation permit. (Ord. 684 § 6;
Ord. 875 § A, 3-23-1967; Ord. 1120 §§ A, B, 9-20-1977)
20-14: FREE MOVEMENT OF TRAFFIC MAINTAINED IF POSSIBLE; CLOSING OF STREETS WHEN
NECESSARY; NOTICE TO PUBLIC AGENCIES AND GENERAL PUBLIC:
The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during the
performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as near normal as
practicable shall be maintained at all times so as to cause as little
inconvenience as possible to the occupants of the abutting property and to the
general public; provided, that the administrative authority may permit the
closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a period of time prescribed by
him, if in his opinion it is necessary.
The written approval of the administrative authority may require that the
permittee give notification to various public agencies and to the general
public. In such case, such written notice shall not be valid until such notice
is given. (Ord. 684 § 8)
20-15: SPECIFICATIONS FOR WARNING SIGNS AND LIGHTS:
Warning signs shall be placed far enough back of the construction operation to
alert traffic within a public street and cones or other approved devices shall
be placed to channel traffic, all in accordance with the "Manual Of Traffic
Controls For Construction And Maintenance Work Zones", prepared by the state of
California business, transportation and housing agency, department of
transportation (including latest revisions). (Ord. 1537 § B63, 8-6-1996)
20-16: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS, WATER GATES, ETC.:
The excavation work regulated by this article shall be performed and conducted
so as not to interfere with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire
escapes, water gates, underground vaults, valve housing structures, and all
other vital equipment as designated by the administrative authority. (Ord. 684
§ 9)
20-17: SAFE TRAFFIC CROSSINGS REQUIRED:
The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two (2) lanes of vehicle
traffic at all street intersections where possible and safe crossings for
pedestrians at intervals of not more than three hundred feet (300'). If any
excavation is made across any public street, alley or sidewalk, at least one
safe crossing shall be maintained, when possible, for vehicles and pedestrians.
If the street is not wide enough to hold the excavated material without using
part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at least one-half (1/2) of the
sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk line. (Ord. 684 § 10)
20-18: RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES:
The permittee shall not interfere with any existing utility without the written
consent of the administrative authority and the owner of the utility. If it
becomes necessary to relocate an existing utility, this shall be done by its
owner. No utility owned by the city shall be moved to accommodate the permittee
unless the cost of such work be borne by the permittee. The cost of moving
privately owned utilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee unless the
permittee makes other arrangements with the person owning the utility. The
permittee shall support and protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by
the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and
protect them under, over, along or across such work. In case any of such pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged, and for this purpose
pipe coating or other encasement or devices are to be considered as part of a
substructure, they shall be repaired by the agency or person owning them and
the expense of such repairs shall be charged to the permittee, and his or its
bond shall be liable therefor. The permittee shall be responsible for any
damage done to any public or private property by reason of the breaking of any
water pipes, sewer, gas pipe, electric conduit or other utility, and its bond
shall be liable therefor. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence
and location of all underground utilities and protect the same against damage.
(Ord. 684 § 11)
20-19: ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES:
Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of a
service line designed to serve a single property owner, the person owning,
using, controlling, or having an interest therein, shall within thirty (30)
days after such abandonment file with the administrative authority a statement
in writing giving in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If
such abandoned substructure is in the way, or subsequently becomes in the way,
of an installation of the city or any other public body, which installation is
pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove such abandoned
substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of excavation for
construction of the facility by the city or any other public body. (Ord. 684 §
12)
20-20: PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY GENERALLY:
The permittee shall at all times and at his own expense preserve and protect
from injury any adjoining property by providing proper foundations and taking
other measures suitable for the purpose. Where in the protection of such
property it is necessary to enter upon private property for the purpose of
taking appropriate protective measures, the permittee shall obtain a license
from the owner of such private property for such purpose, and if he cannot
obtain a license from such owner, the administrative authority may authorize
him to enter the private premises solely for the purpose of making the property
safe. The permittee shall at its own expense, shore up and protect all
buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to be damaged during the
progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all damage to
public or private property or highways resulting from its failure properly to
protect and carry out such work. Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee
to trench through any lawn area, the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and
replaced after ditches have been backfilled as required in this article. All
construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave
the lawn area clean of earth and debris and in a condition as nearly as
possible to that which existed before such work began. The permittee shall not
remove, even temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist in parking strip
areas without first obtaining the consent of the appropriate city department or
city official having control of such property. (Ord. 684 § 13)
20-21: REQUIRED BARRIERS AND WARNING DEVICES:
It shall be the duty of every person, cutting or making an excavation in or
upon any public place, to place and maintain such barriers and warning devices
necessary for safety as specified by the state division of highways'
publication "Manual Of Traffic Controls For Construction And Maintenance Work
Zones", prepared by the state of California business, transportation and
housing agency, department of transportation (including latest revisions).
Barriers shall meet the requirements of the administrative authority. Warning
lights shall be flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset of
each day to sunrise of the next day. Flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not replace,
light sources. (Ord. 1537 § B64, 8-6-1996)
20-22: DISPOSITION OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL; SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR TRENCH AND
TUNNEL EXCAVATIONS GENERALLY:
All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench or in any
street shall be piled, and maintained in such manner as not to endanger those
working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and so that as
little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets and adjoining
property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too narrow to
permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as might be the
case in a narrow alley, the administrative authority shall have the authority
to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a storage site and
then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling. It shall be the
permittee's responsibility to secure the necessary permission and make all
necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal sites.
All materials excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the trench
and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably possible
to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the administrative
authority. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or to
abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the
administrative authority to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
All trench and tunnel excavations and construction shall conform with the
safety requirements for shoring, bracing and ladders in trenches in accordance
with "trench and tunnel construction safety orders of the state of California",
as they now or may hereafter exist. (Ord. 684 § 15)
20-23: CLEANING UP OF RUBBISH, DEBRIS, ETC.:
As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned of
all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work. All
cleanup operations at the location of such excavation shall be accomplished at
the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the
administrative authority. From time to time, as may be ordered by the
administrative authority and in any event immediately after completion of such
work, the permittee shall, at his own expense, clean up and remove all refuse
and unused materials of any kind resulting from such work, and upon failure to
do so within twenty four (24) hours after having been notified to do so by the
administrative authority, such work may be done by the administrative authority
and the cost thereof charged to the permittee, and the permittee shall also be
liable for the cost thereof under the surety bond provided for by this article.
(Ord. 684 § 16)
20-24: PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSE:
The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the full
depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot (1') in width from the
face of such curb at the gutterline. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting
street, an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained. The
permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water, muck, silt,
slickings, or other runoff pumped from excavations or resulting from sluicing
or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage resulting from its
failure to so provide. (Ord. 684 § 17)
20-25: BREAKING THROUGH OR CUTTING PAVEMENT:
   A.   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the administration
authority when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   B.   Saw cutting of Portland cement concrete may be required by the
administrative authority when the nature of the job or the condition of the
street warrants. When required, the depth of the cut shall be no less than one
inch (1") in depth; however, depths greater than one inch (1") may be required
by the administrative authority when circumstances warrant. Saw cutting may be
required by the administrative authority outside of the limits of the
excavation over cave outs, overbreaks and small floating sections.
   C.   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by administrative authority to confine pavement damage to the
limits of the trench.
   D.   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or saw
cut edge.
   E.   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave outs and overbreaks and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   F.   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the centerline of the trench.
   G.   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   H.   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the administrative authority.
   I.   The permittee shall not be required to repair damage existing prior to
excavation unless his cut results in small floating sections that may be
unstable, in which case the permittee shall remove and pave the area. (Ord. 684
§ 18)
20-26: DEPTH OF SUBSURFACE STRUCTURES:
No person shall, without written permission of the administrative authority,
install any substructure, except manholes, vaults, valve casings, culverts and
catch basins at a distance less than the following:
   A.   Streets: Twenty four inches (24") below the established flow line of
the gutter. If such flow line is not established, then the depth shall be at a
minimum of twenty four inches (24") below the surface of the outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street.
   B.   Parkway:
      1.   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be sixteen inches (16")
below established gutter grade when said substructure parallels the parkway.
      2.   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be twelve inches (12")
below the top of the established sidewalk or curb when such substructure is at
right angles to the parkway.
   C.   Other Public Places: The minimum depth of any substructure in any other
public place shall be twelve inches (12") below the surface; provided, however,
that the administrative authority may permit a lesser depth in special cases.
Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee to maintain such
specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of grade in the
surface unless the grade in such substructure interferes with the maintenance
of, or travel on, a public street. (Ord. 684 § 19)
20-27: BACKFILLING:
Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the spoil shall be
thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavements in lifts consistent with the
type of soil involved and the method of consolidation being used. Broken
pavement, large stones, roots and other debris shall not be used in the
backfill. Each lift shall be flooded, jetted, rolled or tamped, or a
combination of these methods shall be used, depending upon the type of soil
involved, to compact the backfill material. Such backfill shall be done in a
manner that will permit the restoration of the surface to condition equivalent
to that in which it was prior to excavation. The administrative authority may
require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory or
registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in his
opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being adequately compacted. In
order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show that the
backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the
administrative authority. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the
permittee. (Ord. 684 § 20)
20-28: RESTORATION OF SURFACE; GENERALLY:
Permanent resurfacing of excavations may be made where the type of
consolidation used in replacing the backfill is adequate, in the opinion of the
administrative authority, to prevent settling and when the moisture content of
the backfill is not excessive. In the event the type of consolidation used in
replacing the backfill is not adequate to prevent further settling or the
moisture content is excessive, temporary resurfacing shall be provided. If
temporary surfacing is provided, the top surface of the backfill shall be
covered with one inch (1") of bituminous material. Such temporary paving
material shall be cold mix, except that the permittee may use or the
administrative authority may require hot mix. All temporary paving material
shall conform closely enough to the level of the adjoining paving surface and
shall be compacted so that it is hard enough and smooth enough to be safe for
pedestrian travel over it as well as for vehicular traffic to pass safely over
it at a legal rate of speed. The permittee shall maintain temporary paving for
a period not exceeding ninety (90) days after all backfilling is completed,
unless additional time is required by the administrative authority, and shall
keep same safe for pedestrian and vehicular traffic until the excavation has
been resurfaced with permanent paving, except that if it is impracticable to
maintain the surface of the temporary paving in a safe condition for pedestrian
travel or vehicular traffic, then the permittee shall maintain barriers and
lights where required by this article.
Acceptance or approval of any excavation work by the administrative authority
shall not prevent the city from asserting a claim against the permittee and his
or its surety under the surety bond required hereunder for incomplete or
defective work if discovered within twenty four (24) months from the completion
of the excavation work. The administrative authority's presence during the
performance of any excavation work shall not relieve the permittee of its
responsibilities pursuant to this section. (Ord. 684 § 21)
20-29: RESTORATION OF SURFACE; RIGHT OF CITY TO DESIGNATE PERSON TO DO
RESURFACING:
Upon completion of the backfilling, and when required, temporary resurfacing of
an excavation within a public place for the installation or removal of
substructures, the administrative authority, at his option, may require the
permittee to resurface that portion of the street surface damaged by the
permittee's excavation, in which event resurfacing shall be done in a manner
and under specifications prescribed by this article, subject to administrative
authority inspection, and shall be completed within a period of ninety (90)
days after such authorization to complete final resurfacing. The administrative
authority may elect to do such resurfacing with city forces, in which event,
the cost of such resurfacing shall be borne by the permittee. (Ord. 684 § 22)
20-30: RESTORATION OF SURFACE; SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Subgrades shall be restored to that existing prior to the excavation or
in accordance with standards for the construction of new streets used by the
city.
   B.   Portland cement concrete used in the repair of trenches shall not have
a slump in excess of two inches (2").
   C.   Portland cement concrete used in the repair of trenches in streets
shall be replaced with a thickness equivalent to that removed, but in no case
less than five inches (5"). Bituminous pavement shall be replaced at the same
thickness as the existing pavement.
   D.   Portland cement sidewalks shall be replaced with the thickness of that
removed; but in no case less than three and one-half inches (31/2") and shall
be of a color and texture of the adjoining sidewalk.
   E.   Expansion joints in Portland cement patches shall be matched with saw
cut lines.
   F.   Portland cement shall be finished to match the texture of that of the
adjoining pavement.
   G.   Concrete shall be compacted by tamping, rodding or mechanical
vibration.
   H.   Repairs in rock and oil streets shall be made in accordance with the
existing specifications for bituminous type pavement.
   I.   Seal coats may be required by the administrative authority when the
street has been seal coated or when it is a general practice of the local
jurisdiction to seal coat bituminous type pavement. (Ord. 684 § 22)
20-31: MAXIMUM LENGTH OF TRENCHES:
The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with existing ordinances or regulations, or as may be specified by
the administrative authority, and no greater length shall be open for pavement
removal, excavation, construction, backfilling, patching and all other
operations without the written permission of the administrative authority.
(Ord. 684 § 23)
20-32: DUTY OF PERMITTEE TO EXPEDITE WORK; GENERALLY:
After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with diligence
and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit and shall
promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original condition,
or as near as may be, so as not to obstruct the public place or travel thereon
more than is reasonably necessary. (Ord. 684 § 24)
20-33: DUTY OF PERMITTEE TO EXPEDITE WORK; URGENT WORK:
If in his judgment, traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the
traveling public or the public interest require the excavation work be
performed as emergency work, the administrative authority shall have full power
to order, at the time the permit is granted, that a crew of men and adequate
facilities be employed by the permittee twenty four (24) hours a day to the end
that such excavation work may be completed as soon as possible. (Ord. 684 § 25)
20-34: APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE TO EMERGENCY ACTION:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs; provided,
that the person making such excavation shall apply to the administrative
authority for such a permit on the first working day after such work is
commenced. (Ord. 684 § 26)
20-35: CONTROL OF NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS:
Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such manner as to
avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris and during the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. shall not use, except with
the express written permission of the administrative authority, or in case of
an emergency as otherwise provided in this article, any tool, appliance or
equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose
of occupants of the neighboring property. (Ord. 684 § 27)
20-36: PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS:
Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision, or a precise survey reference point, or a
permanent survey bench mark within the city, shall not be removed or disturbed
or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in
writing from the administrative authority so to do. Permission to remove or
disturb such monuments, reference points or bench marks shall only be granted
upon condition that the person applying for such permission shall pay all
expenses incident to the proper replacement of this monument by the
administrative authority. (Ord. 684 § 28)
20-37: INSPECTIONS:
The administrative authority shall make such inspections as are reasonably
necessary in the enforcement of this article. The administrative authority
shall have the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and
regulations as may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent
of this article. (Ord. 684 § 29)
20-38: MAINTENANCE OF DRAWINGS OF SUBSURFACE STRUCTURES:
Every person owning, using, controlling or having an interest in substructures,
under the surface of any public place used for the purpose of supplying or
conveying gas, electricity, communication impulse, water, steam, ammonia or oil
in the city, shall file with the administrative authority within one hundred
twenty (120) days after the adoption of this article a map or set of maps each
drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to two hundred feet (1" = 200')
showing in detail the location, size, description and date of installation, if
known, or all substructures, except a service line designed to serve a single
property owner, beneath the surface of the public place belonging to, used by
or under the control of such person having any interest, and shall file with
the administrative authority within fifteen (15) days after the first day of
January of each and every year a corrected map or set of maps each drawn to
such scale including all installations made during the previous year to and
including the last day of such year; provided, however, that a public utility
owner may at its option provide corrected atlas sheets at more frequent
intervals. (Ord. 684 § 30)
20-38.1: RAILROAD CROSSINGS; SAFETY AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided by contract made between the railroad and the
city, it shall be the duty of all railroad companies or entities owning or
operating and maintaining a railroad passing through the city to place, keep or
maintain crossings, and all places within their right of way where the public
streets or alleys of the city intersect and cross any of the railroad tracks,
in a suitable and safe condition for public travel over and across the same.
   B.   If the railroad facilities are at any time abandoned and removed, it
shall be the duty of the railroad company or entity owning or operating and
maintaining the crossing to remove the rails through the crossing at the same
time as the remainder of the rails are removed and to reconstruct the crossing
in the same manner as the remaining portions of the city street or alley are
paved or in such other manner and with such other materials as shall be
required by the city and in a suitable and safe condition for public travel.
The term "crossing", as used in this section, shall include viaducts and
roadways under or over the tracks of any railroad.
   C.   If any railroad crossing shall be at any time in bad condition or
unsafe or inconvenient for public travel, the city council, upon recommendation
of the city manager or his designee, may, by ordinance, resolution or motion
call upon the proper railroad company to repair or replace the crossing and
render the same safe and convenient for public travel. Unless otherwise ordered
by the city council, all railroad crossing replacements shall be made with
steel rails or steel plates. A copy of every such ordinance, resolution or
motion shall be served upon the local agent of the railroad company whose duty
it is to maintain such crossing; and for a failure or refusal to comply with
such ordinance, resolution or motion within thirty (30) days after the service
thereof, as aforesaid, such railroad company shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   D.   Whenever any highway or alley upon, along or through which any railroad
track is laid, shall be ordered paved by the city council, it shall be the duty
of the railroad entity owning or operating such railroad track to pave all that
portion of the street or alley, including in the space between the rails of its
track or tracks, and for one foot (1') on the outer edge of the rails, in the
same manner as the remaining portions thereof are paved or in such other manner
and with such other materials as shall be required by the city's regulations
and requirements. In the case of any default on the part of such company to
comply with this requirement, the city council may cause such railroad track or
tracks to be taken up, and pavement to be laid pursuant to the city's
regulations and requirements, and every such railroad company shall be liable
to the city for the cost and expense of paving such portion of the street or
alley, together with lawful interest thereon from the completion of work. (Ord.
1756, 8-4-2009)
20-39: LIABILITY OF CITY:
This article shall not be construed as imposing upon the city or any official
or employee any liability or responsibility for damages to any person injured
by the performance of any excavation work for which an excavation permit is
issued hereunder, nor shall the city or any official or employee thereof be
deemed to have assumed any such liability for the issuance of any permit or the
approval of any excavation work. (Ord. 684 § 31)
ARTICLE III. CURBS AND GUTTERS
SECTION:
20-40: Legislative Determination Relative To Existence Of Dirt Curbs And
Gutters
20-40.1: When Construction Of Curbs, Gutters And Sidewalks Required
20-40.2: Exceptions To Construction Requirements
20-40.3: Repair And Maintenance Of Residential Buildings; Application Of
Provisions
20-40.4: Location Of Curbs, Gutters And Sidewalks
20-40.5: Deferred Construction; Cash Deposit; Lien Agreement
20-40.6: Compliance With Article Prerequisite To Issuance Of Building Permit,
Final Approval, Etc.
20-40.7: Waiver Of Article Provisions
20-40.8: Miscellaneous Provisions
20-41: Reserved
20-42: Reserved
20-43: Reserved
20-44: Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk Revolving Account; Generally
20-45: Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk Revolving Account; Financing And Repayment
20-46: Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk Revolving Account; Restoration Of
Disbursements
20-46.1: Charge For Curb And Gutter And Other Improvement Re-Staking
20-40: LEGISLATIVE DETERMINATION RELATIVE TO EXISTENCE OF DIRT CURBS AND
GUTTERS:
The existence of dirt curbs and gutters adjoining dwellings and buildings
within the city, or conversely, the lack of adequate curbs and gutters, is
hereby found and declared to be dangerous to the public health and safety of
the inhabitants of the city. (Ord. Code § 3323.3)
20-40.1: WHEN CONSTRUCTION OF CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS REQUIRED:
Any owner, lessee, agent, licensee, or other person, corporation, association
or firm who is:
Constructing or arranging for the construction of a building, dwelling, or any
other improvement; or
Arranging for the remodeling, improving, modifying or otherwise altering in any
manner whatsoever, an existing building, dwelling, or other improvement;
upon any lot or parcel of real property in the city of Porterville shall
provide, subject to the provisions of this article and chapter and to the
ordinances and regulations of the city of Porterville that may now be or
hereafter be in effect, for the construction of concrete curbs, gutters, and
sidewalks unless in accordance with city specifications therefor, they already
exist in a satisfactory condition along all street frontages adjoining the lot
or lots, parcel or parcels of land on which the building, dwelling, or other
improvement is to be constructed or remodeled or modified. In lieu of
installation of concrete improvements, payment for said concrete improvements
shall be provided to the city upon development of the property as specified
above, if said concrete improvements have been installed by the city. In the
event the construction of improvement is being made upon a portion of an
undeveloped parcel and the portion to be developed does not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the entire undeveloped parcel, and the concrete improvements
have not already been installed by the city, the curbs, gutters, and sidewalks
shall be provided on the street frontage so that said curbs, gutters, and
sidewalks will extend the length of the building or improvement and to include
side yard requirements as set forth in the zoning ordinance. In determining
whether the developed portion exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the entire portion
there shall be considered the portion of the parcel on which the building or
other improvement rests, together with all yard and open area requirements
required by the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 826 § A, 8-5-1965; Ord. 1070 § B, 1-28-
1975; Ord. 1644 § 1, 1-20-2004)
20-40.2: EXCEPTIONS TO CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In the event any public improvements are required under the provisions
of this article and chapter, the provisions of this article and chapter shall
not apply unless the construction or remodeling set forth in section 20-40.1 of
this article shall be the cost of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) or more
within a two (2) year period. This valuation is to be adjusted, by resolution,
each year to reflect changes in the cost of construction as indicated in the
engineering news record. This exception does not pertain to street dedication
requirements.
   B.   Payment for city installed concrete improvements shall not be required
when said improvements have been installed with grant funds. (Ord. 826 § A, 8-
5-1965; Ord. 1070 § B, 1-28-1975; Ord. 1224 § 1, 11-18-1980; Ord. 1644 § 2, 1-
20-2004)
20-40.3: REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS; APPLICATION OF
PROVISIONS:
   A.   Whenever it is deemed by the city that in the best interest of public
health, safety or welfare it is necessary to maintain and repair a building or
dwelling used exclusively for residential purposes or to correct damage caused
by fire, flood, earthquake or act of God, the provisions of this article and
chapter shall not apply, unless that within any consecutive twelve (12) month
period the total dollar amount of building permits issued to maintain and
repair the building or dwelling will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
current building cost value of the building or dwelling following the
completion of the repairs. As used herein the term "necessary maintenance and
repair" shall be defined as maintenance and repair required by any law,
ordinance, code or regulation of any political subdivision in effect in the
city of Porterville.
   B.   Whenever it is deemed by the city that improvements, maintenance, or
repairs to a building or dwelling used exclusively for residential purposes are
for the purpose of weatherization, the provisions of this article and chapter
shall not apply, unless that within any consecutive twelve (12) month period
the total dollar amount of building permits issued to maintain and repair the
building or dwelling will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total current
building cost value of the building or dwelling following the completion of the
repairs. (Ord. 826 § A, 8-5-1965; Ord. 1070 § B, 1-28-1975; Ord. 1644 § 3, 1-
20-2004)
20-40.4: LOCATION OF CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS:
The construction of curbs, gutters, and sidewalks in accordance with the
provisions of this article and chapter shall be located on a line and at a
place to be determined by the city of Porterville and in determining this line
the city shall take into consideration the ultimate right of way presently
owned or to be acquired by the city. (Ord. 826 § A, 8-5-1965; Ord. 1070 § B, 1-
28-1975)
20-40.5: DEFERRED CONSTRUCTION; CASH DEPOSIT; LIEN AGREEMENT:
If it is determined by the city that it shall be in the best interest of the
city and its inhabitants to construct said curbs, gutters, and sidewalks, at a
later date, or curbs, gutters, and sidewalks do not presently exist within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the real property under consideration, or street
grades are not available from the office of the city engineer; then the city
shall require the owner, agent, lessee or licensee to deposit with the city of
Porterville a cash amount determined by the city engineer to equal the then
current costs for installing integral concrete curbs, gutters, and sidewalks
required by the provisions of this article and chapter, or, the owner or owners
of said property shall execute an agreement with the city that shall become a
lien or charge upon said property in an amount determined by the city engineer
to equal the then current costs for installing integral concrete curbs,
gutters, and sidewalks herein required.
Said deposit or agreement shall be used or exercised by the city for the
installation of curbs, gutters, and sidewalks adjacent to the street frontage
(s) of the property upon which such deposit or agreement was required, at an
expeditious time as determined by the city to be in the best interest of the
city and its inhabitants. (Ord. 826 § A, 8-5-1965; Ord. 1070 § B, 1-28-1975)
20-40.6: COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT,
FINAL APPROVAL, ETC.:
The building inspector of the city of Porterville, shall deny the issuance of a
permit unless the building plans and specifications therefor provide for curbs,
gutters, and sidewalks in compliance with the requirements of this article and
chapter, and shall deny final approval and acceptance to any said building,
dwelling or other improvement unless and until said integral curbs, gutters,
and sidewalks exist in a serviceable condition or are constructed in accordance
with the provisions of this article and chapter or unless and until the cash
deposit or lien agreement provisions of this article and chapter have been
complied with. Furthermore, under circumstances where payment is required for
concrete improvements installed by the city, the building inspector of the city
of Porterville, shall deny the issuance of a permit unless the building plans
and specifications therefor provide for curbs, gutters, and sidewalks in
compliance with the requirements of this article and chapter, and shall deny
final approval and acceptance to any said building, dwelling or other
improvement unless and until payment for said improvements has been provided
for in conformity with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 826 § A, 8-5-1965;
Ord. 1070 § B, 1-28-1975; Ord. 1644 § 4, 1-20-2004)
20-40.7: WAIVER OF ARTICLE PROVISIONS:
In the event construction of sidewalks is not feasible due to street location,
topography or other physical factor, the city council may waive or modify the
provisions of this article and chapter as they apply to sidewalks upon written
application of the owner of the property or other person against whom this
article and chapter may apply, and upon hearing the recommendation of the city
engineer. Sidewalks shall not be required in the area designated by the city as
the "enterprise zone". City council approval for a waiver or modification of
the sidewalk requirement pertains only to the building permit being acted upon,
and does not release in perpetuity the provisions and requirements of this
article and chapter on subsequent building permits.
In areas where special circumstances common to the same street frontages of
more than one parcel of land, such as, but not limited to, soil conditions,
rock outcroppings, drainage courses, topography, zoning, or lot sizes, would
appear to preclude or obstruct the standard installation of sidewalks as
otherwise herein required, the city engineer may initiate studies and prepare
plans for submission to the city council of alternate solutions and methods of
implementation as may be approved following a public hearing thereon, to
provide, within defined boundaries of affected areas, public walkways for the
protection of pedestrian traffic and public safety. Upon receipt of an
alternate sidewalk plan and a recommendation from the city engineer, the city
council may schedule a public hearing to consider the effect, feasibility, and
appropriateness of same, and by resolution set forth its decision to adopt or
deny the plan. (Ord. 1537 § B65, 8-6-1996)
20-40.8: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Deductions For Improvements To Be Removed: Under circumstances where
payment will be required to pay for city installed concrete improvements under
this article, if an approved parcel map, improvement plans or building plan
identifies proposed concrete improvements that will require removal of existing
city installed concrete improvements, the reimbursement cost of the portion of
the city installed concrete improvements to be removed shall be deducted from
the cost of the city installed improvements adjacent to the property, so long
as the concrete improvements specified are installed as part of the improvement
(s).
   B.   Process For Objecting To Payment For Improvements: Prior to or at the
time the city council considers whether to go out to bid on a street
improvements project that will result in the installation of concrete
improvements for which payment will be required in conformity with this
article, the city shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the time and place of
hearing shall be mailed at least fourteen (14) days prior to the meeting to all
property owners affected by the proposed project. Additionally, prior to
establishing the development fees to be paid for city installed improvements,
the city shall hold at least one public hearing in conformity with the
applicable provisions of the mitigation fee act. Said fees for concrete
improvements related to specific street improvement projects shall be
established by resolution, and shall be administered and accounted for in
compliance with the mitigation fee act.
   C.   Record Notice Of Reimbursement Requirement: The city shall record a
general notice of the potential applicability of said development fees for
concrete improvements with the office of the Tulare County recorder.
   D.   Payment Agreements With City: The city shall allow anyone required to
pay a fee for concrete improvements in conformity with this article to pay over
a period not to exceed five (5) years, with additional terms and interest as
determined by the city. (Ord. 1644 § 5, 1-20-2004)
20-41: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 825 § A, 7-6-1965)
20-42: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 825 § A, 7-6-1965)
20-43: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 825 § A, 7-6-1965)
20-44: CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK REVOLVING ACCOUNT; GENERALLY:
There is hereby created, set up and established a curb, gutter and sidewalk
revolving account for financing and paying for the installation of curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, alleys and paveouts in the city.
The curb, gutter and sidewalk revolving account shall be used, employed and
expended for the sole and only purpose of and in providing property owners of
improved real property with necessary and required money for building, erecting
and completing curbs, gutters, sidewalks, alleys and paveouts in, on and along
the public streets and highways in the city adjacent to improved real property
of such of the owners as may elect to cause curbs, gutters, sidewalks, alleys
and paveouts to be built, erected, constructed and completed, and payment
therefor to be made from the curb, gutter and sidewalk revolving account. (Ord.
Code § 3323.4; Ord. 827 § A, 7-6-1965; Ord. 1337, 9-3-1985)
20-45: CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK REVOLVING ACCOUNT; FINANCING AND REPAYMENT:
   A.   Owners of improved real property electing to avail themselves of
financing the installation of curbs, gutters, sidewalks, alleys and paveouts
from the curb, gutter and sidewalk revolving account, and electing to have
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, alleys and paveouts built, erected, installed and
completed, and payment therefor made from the curb, gutter and sidewalk
revolving account shall make written application therefor to the city manager
and, if such application is acceptable to the city, shall enter into a written
contract with the city for financing and payment therefor from the curb, gutter
and sidewalk revolving account.
   B.   Such owners shall, in the written agreement, bind, contract and
obligate themselves to reimburse and repay to the city all funds and monies
withdrawn or disbursed from the curb, gutter and sidewalk revolving account
amortized in monthly payments with the entire amount thereof to be fully
refunded and repaid to the city within a period of time not exceeding five (5)
years from the date of such agreement and on such terms and under such
conditions as may be set forth in the written agreement, with all unpaid
balances to bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from the
date of the agreement. The owners of the real property and the applicant in
agreement shall agree that any installment payment with accruing interest, as
specified and set up in the agreement, remaining unpaid for ten (10) days from
the due date thereof, may be assessed as taxes against the real property of the
owner or applicant thus benefitted, and the amount of money unpaid shall
constitute a special assessment against the parcel of real property thus
benefitted, and shall be a tax lien on the property for the amount thereof with
the accruing interest, and shall continue to be a lien thereon until the full
amount thereof and all accruing interest is paid and discharged in full.
   C.   The administrative services director or designee of finance shall, at
the appropriate time each year, cause to be filed with the tax assessor of the
county of Tulare a description of the property together with the name of the
owner or reputed owner thereof against which such special assessment shall be
made, and the installment then due and unpaid with accruing interest, together
with all other sums of money due and unpaid under the agreement, may be
assessed as taxes against the owner or reputed owner of the real property, and
the amount of money so assessed shall bear the same penalties and interest as
taxes regularly assessed on default of payment thereof. (Ord. Code § 3323.4;
Ord. 824 § A, 7-6-1965; Ord. 1337, 9-3-1985; Ord. 1614 § 1, 9-17-2002)
20-46: CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK REVOLVING ACCOUNT; RESTORATION OF
DISBURSEMENTS:
All principal received and paid under the written agreement referred to in
section
20-45 of this article, or assessed and collected as taxes, shall be restored to
the curb, gutter and sidewalk revolving account on receipt thereof for the use
and employment therein. All interest received shall be used for the design and
construction of storm drains and drainage structures throughout the city. (Ord.
Code § 3323.4; Ord. 1337, 9-3-1985)
20-46.1: CHARGE FOR CURB AND GUTTER AND OTHER IMPROVEMENT RE- STAKING:
In the event the city of Porterville is required to re-stake for any reason
whatsoever in connection with the construction of curbs and gutters or other
improvements requiring staking, the city shall require from the person so
requesting said staking a fee or charge as fixed by resolution of the city
council.
For purposes of this section, re-staking shall be required on the eighth day
following the original staking if said stakes are unused. (Ord. 856 § A, 3-15-
1966; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
ARTICLE IV. CONSTRUCTION OF DRIVEWAYS ACROSS SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
20-47: Definitions
20-48: Compliance With Article
20-49: Permit Required; Execution Of Application; Application To Constitute
Agreement For Removal Upon Nonuse
20-50: Maximum Width And Nearest To Street Intersection Generally; Approval Of
Driveway In Excess Of Fifty Feet
20-51: Construction Standard; Generally
20-52: Construction Standard; Steel Reinforcement, Maximum Extension Of Sloping
Portion For Commercial Driveways
20-53: Construction Standard; Rebuilding Sidewalks When Necessary
20-54: Construction Standard; Adoption Of Standard Plans And Specifications
20-47: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall mean:
   COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY: Any driveway having a width of more than twelve feet
(12') measured lengthwise with the street.
   RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY: A driveway twelve feet (12'), or less in width
measured lengthwise with the street. Residential driveways may be permitted up
to twenty feet (20') in width, where it is necessary for service of two (2) car
garages, and when and if approved by the board referred to in section 20-50 of
this article. (Ord. Code § 3323.2)
20-48: COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE:
All driveways, for the passage of traffic from a public street over and across
sidewalks, hereafter laid down, built or constructed in the city shall be
built, laid down and constructed in accordance with the provisions of this
article, and not otherwise. (Ord. Code § 3323.2)
20-49: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXECUTION OF APPLICATION; APPLICATION TO CONSTITUTE
AGREEMENT FOR REMOVAL UPON NONUSE:
No driveways across sidewalk space shall be constructed until a permit for
doing such work shall have first been obtained from the city, and in all cases
the application for such permit shall be executed by the owner of the property
to be served by the driveway, and in and by such signed application it shall be
agreed that the person executing the same will, upon demand of the city
engineer, remove such driveway and replace the same by a sidewalk of standard
construction and dimension, if at any time such driveway shall cease to be used
for the purpose for which it was constructed. (Ord. 1537 § B66, 8-6-1996)
20-50: MAXIMUM WIDTH AND NEAREST TO STREET INTERSECTION GENERALLY; APPROVAL OF
DRIVEWAY IN EXCESS OF FIFTY FEET:
Commercial driveways shall not exceed fifty feet (50') in width measured
lengthwise with the street; no driveway shall be closer than four feet (4') to
the prolongation of the property line at right angles to the driveway at any
street intersection. Should it be necessary, in order to serve the business
requirements of the owner of the property to which a commercial driveway gains
entrance to increase the width thereof from the maximum of fifty feet (50') as
hereinbefore provided, written application therefor shall be made to the city
engineer for permission to lay and install such additional driveways, or for
increasing the maximum width thereof hereinbefore provided. Such application
shall be filed with the city engineer and shall be acted on and considered by
the city council, which body shall have the power to grant or deny such
application. (Ord. Code § 3323.2; Ord. 755 § 1, 3-5-1963)
20-51: CONSTRUCTION STANDARD; GENERALLY:
All driveways must be built and constructed in conformity with the city
standard plans and specifications, or as directed by the city engineer.
Coloring may be added to the concrete, if it is desired. All details of the
entire driveway shall be subject to the direction and supervision of the city
engineer. None of such work shall be done until the contractor, or other person
doing such work shall furnish, and file with the city, a bond in the penal sum
to be fixed by the city engineer, conditioned for the faithful performance of
such work in accordance with the specifications herein set forth, or such
additional specifications as may be required by the city engineer. (Ord. 1537 §
B67, 8-6-1996)
20-52: CONSTRUCTION STANDARD; STEEL REINFORCEMENT, MAXIMUM EXTENSION OF SLOPING
PORTION FOR COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS:
All commercial driveways when constructed and installed shall have a mat
composed of reinforcing steel composed of one-fourth inch (1/4") round rods on
six inch (6") centers longitudinally and transversely. Such mat shall be placed
one and one-half inches (11/2") above the bottom of the concrete. The sloping
portion of all such driveways rising from a point one inch (1") above the flow
line of the gutter, shall not extend back from the curb face more than one-half
(1/2) the distance to the property line. (Ord. Code § 3323.2)
20-53: CONSTRUCTION STANDARD; REBUILDING SIDEWALKS WHEN NECESSARY:
In the event of excessive height of curbing where driveways are to be
constructed, the sidewalks shall be rebuilt the necessary distance back on each
side of such driveway, so that the slope will not exceed three-fourths inch (3/
4") per foot, so that the driveway permits safe entrance and exit. (Ord. Code §
3323.2)
20-54: CONSTRUCTION STANDARD; ADOPTION OF STANDARD PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
All driveways shall conform to the standard plans and specifications as
prepared by the city engineer and filed in the offices of the city clerk and
the city engineer; and such plans, profiles and cross sections and each thereof
are hereby made a part of this section. (Ord. 1537 § B68, 8-6-1996)
ARTICLE V. SPECIFIC STREET REGULATIONS
SECTION:
20-55: El Granito Cul-De-Sac
20-56: Scenic Heights
20-57: Porterville Redevelopment Project Area No. 1
20-55: EL GRANITO CUL-DE-SAC:
   A.   El Granito Street, between Grand Avenue on the south and Henderson
Avenue on the north, is established as a cul-de-sac street; and the intent of
this section is to prohibit the movement of through traffic along the western
edge of Exalt park. In establishing El Granito as a cul-de-sac, it may be
necessary to waive the established standards for length of cul-de-sacs and
construction of cul-de-sac bulbs in order to construct access to adjacent
parcels. The city council has made the following findings in establishing this
section:
      1.   El Granito Street serves Exalt park on the east and residential
property on the west.
      2.   In developing Exalt park and El Granito Street, the city implied to
area residents that such street development would not provide through access
between Grand Avenue and Henderson Avenue.
      3.   The city fire department has reviewed the area and established that
a nonstandard length cul-de-sac would not significantly affect fire protection.
      4.   The city police department has expressed concerns over potential
traffic related problems if El Granito Street were to be extended to connect
with Henderson Avenue.
      5.   Establishing El Granito Street as a cul-de-sac serves the best
interests of the community and residents.
   B.   In addition to the findings, the council establishes the following as
the minimum design criteria for El Granito Street:
      1.   Minimum right of way width is sixty feet (60').
      2.   Minimum curb to curb width is forty feet (40').
      3.   Minimum curb to curb distance between abutting cul-de-sacs is ten
feet (10').
      4.   Maximum depth of cul-de-sac from intersecting street centerline to
radius of cul-de-sac bulb shall be nine hundred feet (900').
      5.   Walkways are required adjacent to residential units.
      6.   Right of way must be dedicated sufficient to allow sewer, water,
storm drain and utility service connection between Grand Avenue and Henderson
Avenue. Dedication to be approved by the city engineer and shown on final maps.
(Ord. 1323 § A, 10-16-1984)
20-56: SCENIC HEIGHTS:
The area of the city of Porterville known as Scenic Heights and consisting of
Highland Drive, Highland Road, Scenic Drive and Marshall Street is of a unique
and unusual character and contains topographical and geological formations that
make it impractical to construct streets, roads, drives and ways that conform
to established city standards.
   A.   Findings: The city council has made the following findings in
establishing this section:
      1.   The Scenic Heights area of the community is a unique geological and
topographical area of the community.
      2.   Construction of standard streets is not deemed appropriate
considering the topography, geological features, existing development and
nature of the area.
      3.   The Porterville planning commission, in resolution 184, dated
February 9, 1966, resolved that, because of topographical and engineering
factors, sidewalks were not required in this area.
      4.   There is a need to establish design criteria for the orderly
development of this area and to prevent arbitrary and nonuniform construction.
      5.   It is desirable to maintain the unique qualities of this area and to
preserve the existing development which might be destroyed by the construction
of standard improvements.
      6.   There exists unique traffic problems in this area by virtue of its
topography and development, and this area generates substantial amounts of
traffic over and above the resident traffic.
      7.   There is need to maintain adequate and safe access for emergency
vehicles as well as residents of the area.
   B.   Design Criteria: Based on the findings, the city council hereby
establishes minimum design criteria:
      1.   Street sections will be designed in accordance with standard
engineering practice and soils data for the area and be subject to the approval
of the city engineer.
      2.   Standard curb and gutter, per city standard, will be required at the
time of development or redevelopment.
      3.   Construction shall be confined to the dedicated roadway area and in
conformance with existing street improvements.
      4.   Full roadway dedication will be required to assure adequate room for
utilities and to protect locations of existing utilities.
      5.   Design widths are as follows:
  Curb To Curb Width (Feet)
                           Curb To Curb Width (Feet)
a. Marshall Street         24
b. Highland Road           24
c. Scenic Drive            28
d. Highland Drive:
 Main to Highland Road    26
 Highland Road to Pioneer 28
 Pioneer to north limit   24
 
      6.   Grades are subject to review and approval of the city engineer.
(Ord. 1322 § A, 10-16-1984)
20-57: PORTERVILLE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA NO. 1:
The city manager, or his/her designee, shall have authority for the
administrative approval of requests for permission to encroach into the public
rights of way in the redevelopment project area no. 1. Consideration of said
encroachments shall be in conjunction with approval of required city permits.
Encroachments into the public rights of way within the redevelopment project
area no. 1, which may be approved by the city manager or his/her designee as
described herein, shall be limited to the erection of those elements consistent
with the design guidelines adopted for the redevelopment project area no. 1 in
effect at the time of approval. (Ord. 1498 § 3, 6-7-1994)
ARTICLE VI. TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE
SECTION:
20-59: Purpose
20-60: Transportation Impact Fee Established
20-61: Limited Use Of Fees
20-62: Developer Construction Of Facilities
20-59: PURPOSE:
In order to implement the goals and objectives of the circulation element of
the city's general plan and to improve and maintain the level of service of the
community's infrastructure including streets and highways, transit, bicycle/
pedestrian facilities, truck routes, and transportation system management
strategies, certain public transportation facilities must be constructed or
expanded commensurate with growth of the city. The city council has determined
that a transportation impact fee is needed in order to assist in the financing
of these public transportation improvements and to pay for new development's
fair share, excluding expansion of existing development within the boundaries
of the existing legally defined property, of the construction costs of these
improvements. In establishing the fee described below, the city council has
found the fee to be consistent with its general plan and, pursuant to
Government Code section 65913.2, has considered the effects of the fee with
respect to the city's housing needs as established in the housing element of
the general plan. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
20-60: TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE ESTABLISHED:
A transportation impact fee is hereby established on issuance of certificate of
occupancy for new development, excluding expansion of existing development, in
the city. The city council shall, in a council resolution, set forth the
specific amount of the fee, describe the benefit and impact area on which the
transportation impact fee is imposed, list the specific public improvements to
be financed, describe the estimated cost of these facilities, describe the
reasonable relationships between this fee and the various types of new
development and set forth time for payment. As described in the fee resolution,
this impact fee shall be paid prior to issuance of certificate of occupancy. On
an annual basis, this fee shall be adjusted by the public works director or
designee in accordance with the "Engineering News Record Construction Cost
Index" publication. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
20-61: LIMITED USE OF FEES:
The revenues raised by payment of this fee shall be placed in a separate and
special account and such revenues, along with any interest earnings on that
account, shall be used solely to: a) pay for the city's future construction of
new or expanded transportation facilities described in the resolution enacted
with this ordinance; or b) reimburse developers who have been required or
permitted as set forth below, to install certain transportation facilities as
listed in the most recently adopted circulation element. (Ord. 1558 § 1, 5-20-
1998)
20-62: DEVELOPER CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES:
Whenever a developer is required, as a condition of approval of a development
permit, to construct an off site public transportation facility described in a
resolution adopted pursuant to this section, and when such construction is
necessary to ensure efficient and timely construction of the transportation
facilities network, a reimbursement agreement with the developer may be
offered. The reimbursement amount shall not exceed the actual cost of the
construction of the facility by the developer. Should the reimbursement amount
exceed available funding in the transportation impact fee account, the
developer may enter into a reimbursement agreement with the city with repayment
to the developer to be paid from the transportation impact fee account as
funding becomes available. (Ord. 1558 § 1, 5-20-1998)
CHAPTER 21
DEVELOPMENT CODE
SERIES 100. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 100. TITLE, COMPONENTS, AND PURPOSES
SECTION:
100.01: Title And Authority
100.02: Purpose
100.03: Structure Of Zoning Regulations
100.04: General Rules For Applicability Of Zoning Regulations
100.05: Consistency With General Plan
100.06: Effect On Previously Approved Projects And Projects In Progress
100.07: Severability
100.08: Fees
100.01: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the PORTERVILLE DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE,
DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PORTERVILLE, DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE, or
CHAPTER.
The Porterville development ordinance is adopted pursuant to the authority
contained in section 65850 of the California Government Code. In addition, the
provisions of this chapter relating to the regulation and control of
subdivisions are adopted pursuant to the authority contained in title 7,
division 2 of the California Government Code, commencing with section 66410,
hereinafter referred to as the "subdivision map act", as may be amended from
time to time. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
100.02: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to implement the city's general plan and to
protect and promote the public health, safety, peace, comfort, convenience,
prosperity and general welfare. More specifically, this chapter is adopted to
achieve the following objectives:
   A.   To provide a precise guide for the physical development of the city in
a manner as to progressively achieve the arrangement of land uses depicted in
the Porterville general plan, consistent with the goals and policies of the
general plan.
   B.   To foster a harmonious, convenient and workable relationship among land
uses and ensure compatible infill development, consistent with the general
plan.
   C.   To support economic development and job creation.
   D.   To provide for the housing needs of all economic segments of the
community.
   E.   To promote high quality architecture and design, consistent with the
general plan.
   F.   To promote the stability of existing land uses that conform with the
general plan, protecting them from incompatible development.
   G.   To promote a safe and efficient traffic circulation system, foster the
provision of adequate off street parking and off street loading facilities,
bicycle facilities and pedestrian amenities, and support a multimodal
transportation system.
   H.   To facilitate the appropriate location of community facilities,
institutions, parks, and other recreational areas.
   I.   To protect and enhance real property values.
   J.   To safeguard and enhance the appearance of the city.
   K.   To define duties and powers of administrative bodies and officers
responsible for implementation of this chapter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
100.03: STRUCTURE OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Organization Of Regulations: This chapter consists of seven (7) series:
      100 series: Introductory Provisions
      200 series: Base Districts
      300 series: Additional Use And Development Regulations
      400 series: Land Divisions
      500 series: Overlay Districts
      600 series: Administration And Permits
      700 series: General Terms
   B.   Types Of Regulations: Four (4) types of zoning regulations control the
use and development of property:
      1.   Land Use Regulations: These regulations specify land uses permitted,
conditionally permitted or specifically prohibited in each zoning district, and
include special requirements, if any, applicable to specific uses. Land use
regulations for base zoning districts are in the 200 series of this chapter and
in the 500 series of this chapter for overlay district regulations. Certain
regulations, applicable in some or all of the districts, and performance
standards which govern special uses, are in the 300 series of this chapter.
      2.   Development Regulations: These regulations control the height, bulk,
location and appearance of structures on development sites. Development
regulations for base zoning districts are in the 200 series of this chapter.
The regulations for overlay districts are in the 500 series of this chapter.
Certain development regulations, applicable to some or all districts are in the
300 series of this chapter. These include regulations for specific uses,
development and site regulations, performance standards, parking, sign,
antennas and wireless communications and nonconforming uses.
      3.   Subdivision Regulations: These regulations control the division of
land and specify the design, improvement, and survey data of subdivisions as
well as the procedures to be followed to secure final approval for subdivision
maps. Subdivision regulations are in the 400 series of this chapter.
      4.   Administrative Regulations: These regulations contain detailed
procedures for the administration of this chapter, and include common
procedures, processes and standards for discretionary entitlement applications
and other permits. Administrative regulations are in the 600 series of this
chapter.
      5.   General Terms And Use Classifications: The 700 series of this
chapter provides a list of use classifications and a list of terms and
definitions used in this chapter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
100.04: GENERAL RULES FOR APPLICABILITY OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Applicability To Property: This chapter shall apply, to the extent
permitted by law, to all property within the corporate limits of the city of
Porterville and to property for which applications for annexation and/or
subdivisions have been submitted to the city of Porterville, including all
uses, structures and land owned by any private person, firm, corporation or
organization, or the city of Porterville or other local, state or federal
agencies. Any governmental agency shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter only to the extent that such property may not be lawfully regulated by
the city of Porterville.
   B.   Compliance With Regulations: No land shall be used, and no structure
shall be constructed, occupied, enlarged, altered, demolished or moved in any
zoning district, except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Relation To Other Regulations:
      1.   General: The regulations of this chapter and requirements or
conditions imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not supersede any other
regulations or requirements adopted or imposed by the Porterville city council,
the state of California, or any federal agency that has jurisdiction by law
over uses and development authorized by this chapter. All uses and development
authorized by this chapter shall comply with all other such regulations and
requirements. Where conflict occurs between the provisions of this chapter and
any other city ordinance, chapter, resolution, guideline or regulation, the
more restrictive provisions shall control, unless otherwise specified. Where
conflicts occurs between the articles of this chapter, the specific shall
supersede the general provision. In the case of any remaining uncertainty, the
zoning administrator shall make a determination to resolve the conflict.
      2.   Permit Streamlining Act: It is the intent of this chapter that all
actions taken by the decision making body pursuant to this chapter that are
solely adjudicatory in nature be within a time frame consistent with the
provisions of Government Code section 65920 et seq. (the permit streamlining
act). Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as imposing time limits on
actions taken by the decision making body pursuant to this chapter that are
legislative in nature or that require both adjudicatory and legislative
judgments.
   D.   Relation To Private Agreements: This chapter shall not interfere with
or annul any recorded easement, covenant, or other agreement now in effect,
provided that where this chapter imposes greater restriction than imposed by an
easement, covenant, or agreement, this chapter shall control.
   E.   Relation To Prior Ordinance: The provisions of this chapter supersede
all prior ordinances and any amendments of the city of Porterville. No
provision of this chapter shall validate any land use or structure established,
constructed or maintained in violation of the prior ordinance, unless such
validation is specifically authorized by this chapter and is in conformance
with all other regulations.
   F.   Application During Local Emergency: The city council may authorize a
deviation from a provision of this chapter during a local emergency declared
and ratified under the municipal code. The city council may authorize a
deviation by resolution without notice or public hearing. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-
2013)
100.05: CONSISTENCY WITH GENERAL PLAN:
Any permit, license or approval issued pursuant to this chapter must be
consistent with the Porterville general plan and all applicable specific plans.
In any case where there is a conflict between this chapter and the general
plan, the general plan shall prevail. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
100.06: EFFECT ON PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PROJECTS AND PROJECTS IN PROGRESS:
The city council shall adopt, by resolution, policies that detail the
transitional implementation of this chapter for previously approved projects
and projects in progress. All other projects must comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
100.07: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Porterville city
council hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter, and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, regardless of the
fact that any or one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
100.08: FEES:
The city council shall establish by resolution, and may amend and revise from
time to time, fees for processing the discretionary entitlement applications
and other permits authorized or required by this chapter. All fees shall be
paid at the time an application is filed, and no processing shall commence
until the fees are paid in full. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 101. ZONING DISTRICTS, ZONING MAP, AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
101.01: Districts Established
101.02: Official Zoning Map And District Boundaries
101.01: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The city shall be classified into districts or zones, the designation and
regulation of which are set forth in this chapter and as follows:
   A.   Base Zoning Districts: Base zoning districts into which the city is
divided are established as follows:
Short Name/Map Symbol Full Name
Short Name/Map Symbol Full Name
Agriculture/rural/conservation districts:
 AC                  Agricultural/conservation
 RR                  Rural residential
Residential districts:
 RS-1                Very low density residential
 RS-2                Low density residential
 RM-1                Low-medium density residential
 RM-2                Medium density residential
 RM-3                High density residential
Downtown districts:
 DR-N                Downtown retail - north of Olive Avenue
 DR-S                Downtown retail - south of Olive Avenue
 DR-D                Downtown retail - D Street Corridor
 D-MX                Downtown mixed use
 D-GC                Downtown general commercial
 D-PO                Downtown professional office
 D-PS                Downtown public and semipublic
 DRM-2               Downtown medium density residential
 DRM-3               Downtown high density residential
Commercial districts:
 CN                  Neighborhood commercial
 CR                  Retail centers
 CG                  General and service commercial
 CMX                 Commercial mixed use
Employment districts:
 PO                  Professional office
 IP                  Industrial park
 IG                  General industrial
 IA                  Airport industrial
Public and open space districts:
 PS                  Public and semipublic
 PK                  Parks and public recreation facilities
 REC                 Commercial recreation
Other base districts:
 RN                  Residential neighborhood
 PD                  Planned development
 
   B.   Overlay Zoning Districts: Overlay zoning districts, one or more of
which may be combined with a base district, are established as follows:
 
Short Name/Map Symbol Full Name
Overlay zoning districts:
 AE                  Airport environs
 HZ                  Hillside development zone
 S                   Single story
 
   C.   References To Classes Of Base Districts: Throughout this chapter, the
following references apply:
      1.   "R district" or "residential district" means one or more of the
following districts: RS-1 very low density residential, RS-2 low density
residential, RM-1 low-medium density residential, RM-2 medium density
residential, and RM-3 high density.
      2.   "D district" or "downtown district" means one or more of the
following districts: DR-N downtown retail - north of Olive Avenue, DR-
S downtown retail - south of Olive Avenue, DR-D downtown retail - D Street
Corridor, D-MX downtown mixed use, D-PO downtown professional office, D-GC
downtown general commercial, D-PS downtown public and semipublic, DRM-
2 downtown medium density residential, and DRM-3 downtown high density
residential.
      3.   "C district" or "commercial district" means one or more of the
following districts: CN neighborhood commercial, CR retail centers, CG general
and service commercial, and CMX commercial mixed use.
      4.   "E district" or "employment district" means one or more of the
following districts: PO professional office, IP industrial park, IG general
industrial, and IA airport industrial. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
101.02: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the zoning districts established by this chapter are not
included in this chapter but are shown on the official zoning map maintained by
the community development department. The official zoning map, together with
all legends, symbols, notations, references, zoning district boundaries, map
symbols, and other information on the maps, have been adopted by the council
and are hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference, together with any
amendments previously or hereafter adopted, as though they were fully included
here.
   A.   Application Of Preannexation Zoning: The city may apply preannexation
zoning to unincorporated property located within the planning area boundary
consistent with the Porterville general plan. The preannexation zoning process
shall comply with the provisions of article 608, "Amendments To Zoning Map And
Text", of this chapter. The zoning provisions and requirements so established
shall become applicable at the same time that the annexation of such territory
becomes effective.
   B.   Uncertainty Of Boundaries: If uncertainty exists as to the boundaries
of any district shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall
apply:
      1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
alleys, streets, highways, streams or railroads shall be construed to follow
such centerlines.
      2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines, city
limits, or extraterritorial boundary lines shall be construed as following such
lines, limits or boundaries.
      3.   In the case of unsubdivided property or where a district boundary
divides a lot and no dimensions are indicated, the following shall apply:
         a.   Lots greater than one acre: The location of such boundary shall
be determined by the use of the scale appearing on the official zoning map.
         b.   Lots less than one acre: The lot shall be deemed to be included
within the zone which is the more restrictive.
      4.   In the case of any remaining uncertainty, the zoning administrator
shall determine the location of boundaries.
      5.   Where any public street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned,
the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall apply to
that portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of such vacation
or abandonment.
      6.   Where any private right of way or easement of any railroad, railway,
transportation or public utility company is vacated or abandoned and said
property is unclassified, said property shall be automatically classified as
being in the public and semipublic (PS) district. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 102. RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE
SECTION:
102.01: Purpose
102.02: Rules For Construction
102.03: Rules Of Interpretation
102.01: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide precision in the interpretation of
the zoning regulations. The meaning and construction of words and phrases
defined in this article apply throughout this chapter, except where the context
indicates a different meaning. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
102.02: RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION:
In interpreting the various provisions of this chapter, the following rules of
construction shall apply:
   A.   The particular controls the general.
   B.   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the following
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   "And" indicates that all connected words or provisions shall apply.
      2.   "And/or" indicates that the connected words or provisions may apply
singly or in any combination.
      3.   "Or" indicates that the connected words or provisions may apply
singly or in any combination.
      4.   "Either . . . or" indicates that the connected words or provisions
shall apply singly but not in combination.
   C.   In case of conflict between the text and a diagram or graphic, the text
controls.
   D.   All references to departments, committees, commissions, boards, or
other public agencies are to those of the city of Porterville, unless otherwise
indicated.
   E.   All references to public officials are to those of the city of
Porterville, and include designated deputies of such officials, unless
otherwise indicated.
   F.   All references to days are to calendar days, unless otherwise
indicated. If a deadline falls on a weekend or holiday, or a day when the city
offices are closed, it shall be extended to the next working day. The end of a
time period shall be the close of business on the last day of the period.
   G.   The words "shall", "will", "must" and "is to" are always mandatory and
not discretionary. The words "should" or "may" are permissive.
   H.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
tense includes the past.
   I.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural, the singular.
   J.   Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and the
feminine the masculine.
   K.   Sections and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of
any section. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
102.03: RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
The zoning administrator shall make the interpretation for any definition not
expressly identified in this article or provide clarification and determination
of these rules. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 103. RULES OF MEASUREMENT
SECTION:
103.01: Purpose
103.02: General Provisions
103.03: Fractions
103.04: Measuring Distances
103.05: Measuring Height
103.06: Measuring Lot Width And Depth
103.07: Determining Average Slope
103.08: Determining Floor Area
103.09: Determining Floor Area Ratio
103.10: Determining Lot Coverage
103.11: Determining Lot Frontage
103.12: Determining Setbacks (Yards)
103.13: Measuring Signs
103.01: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to explain how various measurements referred to
in this chapter are to be calculated. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.02: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
For all calculations, the applicant shall be responsible for supplying drawings
illustrating the measurements that apply to a project. These drawings shall be
drawn to scale and of sufficient detail to allow easy verification upon
inspection by the zoning administrator. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.03: FRACTIONS:
Whenever this chapter requires consideration of distances, parking spaces,
dwelling units or other aspects of development or the physical environment
expressed in numerical quantities, and the result of a calculation contains a
fraction of a whole number, the results will be rounded as follows:
   A.   General Rounding: Fractions of one-half (0.5) or greater shall be
rounded up to the nearest whole number and fractions of less than one-half
(0.5) shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, except as otherwise
provided.
   B.   Exception For State Affordable Housing Density Bonus: For projects
eligible for bonus density pursuant to Government Code section 65915 or any
successor statute, and article 302, "Affordable Housing Density Bonus And Other
Incentives", of this chapter, any fractional number of permitted bonus density
units shall be rounded up to the next whole number. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.04: MEASURING DISTANCES:
   A.   Measurements Are Shortest Distance: When measuring a required distance,
such as the minimum distance between a structure and a lot line, the
measurement is made at the closest or shortest distance between the two (2)
objects.
   B.   Distances Are Measured Horizontally: When determining distances for
setbacks and structure dimensions, all distances are measured along a
horizontal plane from the appropriate line, edge of building, structure,
storage area, parking area, or other object. These distances are not measured
by following the topography or slope of the land.
   C.   Measurements Involving A Structure: Measurements involving a structure
are made to the outside edge of the foundation for the closest support wall of
the structure. Structures or portions of structures that are entirely
underground are not included in measuring required distances.
   D.   Measurement Of Vehicle Stacking Or Travel Areas: Measurement of a
minimum travel distance for vehicles, such as garage entrance setbacks and
stacking lane distances, are measured down the center of the vehicle travel
area. For example, curving driveways and travel lanes are measured along the
center arc of the driveway or traffic lane.
   E.   Measuring Radius: When a specified land use is required to be located a
minimum distance from another land use, the minimum distance is measured in a
straight line from all points along the lot line of the subject project.
   FIGURE 103.04:   MEASURING DISTANCES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3652.png]
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.05: MEASURING HEIGHT:
   A.   Measuring Building Height: Building height is measured from the average
level of the highest and lowest point of that portion of the lot covered by the
building to the highest point of the roof ridge, or parapet wall.
   B.   Measuring Height Of Other Structures: The height of other structures
such as fences is the vertical distance from the ground level immediately under
the structure to the top of the structure. Special measurement provisions are
also provided below.
      1.   Measuring The Height Of Fences On Retaining Walls: The height of a
fence that is on top of a retaining wall is measured from the ground level on
the highest side of the fence and wall.
      2.   Measuring The Height Of Decks: Deck height is determined by
measuring from the ground to the top of the floor of the deck.
   FIGURE 103.05:   MEASURING HEIGHT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3654.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.06: MEASURING LOT WIDTH AND DEPTH:
   A.   Lot Width: "Lot width" is the horizontal distance between the side lot
lines, measured at right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the
front and rear lot lines.
   B.   Lot Depth: Lot depth is measured along an imaginary straight line drawn
from the midpoint of the front property line of the lot to the midpoint of the
rear property line or to the most distant point on any other lot line where
there is no rear lot line.
   FIGURE 103.06:   MEASURING LOT WIDTH AND DEPTH
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3656.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.07: DETERMINING AVERAGE SLOPE:
The average slope of a parcel is calculated using the following formula:
S = 100(I)(L)/A, where:
   A.   S = Average slope (in percent).
   B.   I = Contour interval (in feet).
   C.   L = Total length of all contour lines on the parcel (in feet).
   D.   A = Area of subject parcel (in square feet). (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.08: DETERMINING FLOOR AREA:
"Floor area" is the horizontal area (usually expressed in square feet) of all
floors included within a building or buildings, according to the following
rules:
   A.   Included In Floor Area: Floor area is deemed to include:
      1.   The floor of atrium and lobby areas;
      2.   Storage and equipment spaces that are roofed and enclosed on all
sides;
      3.   Enclosed and roofed halls, stairways, and elevator shafts;
      4.   Enclosed and roofed porches and balconies;
      5.   Portions of basements and attics that meet building code height
requirements for habitable space; and
      6.   The actual floor space of mezzanines, interior balconies, lofts,
closets and all habitable rooms.
   B.   Excluded From Floor Area: Floor area does not include:
      1.   Garages, carports or other areas used for parking and loading, or
vehicular access to parking and loading spaces;
      2.   Unenclosed exterior balconies, decks, porches and stairs;
      3.   Substandard height portions of attics and basements not used as
habitable space (per building code). (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.09: DETERMINING FLOOR AREA RATIO:
"Floor area ratio (FAR)" is the ratio of the floor area of all principal and
accessory buildings on a lot to the lot area. To calculate FAR, floor area is
divided by lot area, and typically expressed as a decimal. For example, if the
floor area of all buildings on a lot totals twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet, and the lot area is ten thousand (10,000) square feet, the FAR is
expressed as 2.0.
   FIGURE 103.09:   DETERMINING FLOOR AREA RATIO
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3658.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.10: DETERMINING LOT COVERAGE:
"Lot coverage" is the ratio of the total footprint area of all structures on a
lot to the net lot area, typically expressed as a percentage. The footprints of
all principal and accessory structures, including garages, carports, covered
patios, and roofed porches, shall be summed in order to calculate lot coverage.
The following structures shall be excluded from the calculation:
   A.   Unenclosed and unroofed decks, uncovered patio slab, porches, landings,
balconies and stairways less than six feet (6') in height;
   B.   Eaves and roof overhangs projecting up to two and one-half feet (21/2')
from a wall;
   C.   Trellises and similar structures that do not have solid roofs;
   D.   Swimming pools and hot tubs that are not enclosed in roofed structures
or decks; and
   E.   One small, nonhabitable accessory structure under one hundred twenty
(120) square feet. Structures above quantity of one shall be included in lot
coverage.
   FIGURE 103.10:   DETERMINING LOT COVERAGE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3660.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.11: DETERMINING LOT FRONTAGE:
   A.   Corner lot: The front of a lot is the narrowest dimension of the lot
with street frontage.
   B.   Through lot (double frontage lot): The front yard borders the street
primarily used as frontage by neighboring lots. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.12: DETERMINING SETBACKS (YARDS):
A setback line defining a required yard is parallel to and at the specified
distance from the corresponding front, side, or rear property line. The
following special regulations for determining yards apply when a lot abuts a
proposed street or alley:
   A.   Yards Abutting Planned Street Expansions: If a property abuts an
existing or proposed street for which the existing right of way is narrower
than the right of way ultimately required for the street, the required setback
shall be established from the future right of way rather than the property
line.
   B.   Yards On Alleys:
      1.   If a side lot line abuts an alley, the yard shall be considered an
interior side yard rather than a corner side yard.
      2.   In computing the minimum yard for any lot where such yard abuts an
alley, no part of the width of the alley may be considered as part of the
required yard.
   FIGURE 103.12:   DETERMINING SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3662.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
103.13: MEASURING SIGNS:
The height of signs is measured in the same method as the height of other
structures (see subsection 103.05B, "Measuring Height Of Other Structures", of
this article). Calculation of sign area is described in article 305, "Signs",
of this chapter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
SERIES 200. BASE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE 200. AGRICULTURE/RURAL/CONSERVATION DISTRICTS
SECTION:
200.01: Purpose
200.02: Land Use Regulations
200.03: Development Regulations
200.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purpose of the “Agricultural/Rural/Conservation” Districts is to
preserve agricultural and resource conservation areas while providing
opportunities for rural living.
Additional purposes of each “Agriculture/Rural/Conservation” District:
   AC Agricultural/Conservation. To preserve agricultural and resource
conservation areas. Incidental residential uses with septic systems are
allowed. Industrial gravel and aggregate mining are allowed in areas classified
by the State as Mineral Resource Zones. Clustered development is encouraged.
   RR Rural Residential. To provide opportunities for rural living on 2.5 acre
or larger lots. This district serves as a transition between agriculture/open
space and more intensive urban uses and helps define the limits of urban
development. Clustered development is encouraged, and smaller lots may be
allowed, provided that the overall density does not exceed 0.2 units per acre,
with lower limits applying in the Hillside Development Zone. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-
2019)
200.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
Table 200.02 below prescribes the land use regulations for “Agricultural/Rural/
Conservation” Districts. The regulations for each district are established by
letter designations as follows:
   “P” designates permitted uses.
   “C” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
   “M” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Minor Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
    “(#)” numbers in parentheses refer to specific limitations listed at the
end of the table.
   “-“ designates uses that are not permitted.
Use classifications are defined in Chapter 701, Use Classifications. In cases
where a specific land use or activity is not defined, the Zoning Administrator
shall assign the land use or activity to a classification that is substantially
similar in character. Use classifications and sub-classifications not listed in
the table or not found to be substantially similar to the uses below are
prohibited. The table also notes additional use regulations that apply to
various uses. Section numbers in the right hand column refer to other sections
of this Chapter.
TABLE 200.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS -
AGRICULTURE/RURAL/CONSERVATION DISTRICTS
Use Classification AC RR Additional Regulations
Use Classification                   AC   RR   Additional Regulations
Residential uses:
 Single-family dwelling:            See sub-classifications below
  Detached                         P    P     
 Family daycare home:               See sub-classifications below
  Small                            P    P     
                                               Section
  Large                            P    P    301.07, "Family Daycare Home,
                                               Large"
 Group residential                  -    P(1)  
 Residential care facilities        See sub-classifications below
  Limited                          P    P     
  Large                            C    C     
Employee housing                     P    P     
Public and semipublic uses:
 Religious facilities               -    C     
                                               Section
 Social services facilities         C    C    301.19, "Social Services
                                               Facilities"
Commercial uses:
 Animal care, sales and services:   See sub-classifications below
  Kennels                          M    M     
  Veterinary services, large       C    C     
Transportation, communication, and utilities uses:
 Communication facilities:          See sub-classifications below
    Antenna and transmission towers,           Section
  camouflage facilities            P    P    301.20, "Telecommunication
                                               Facilities"
    Antenna and transmission towers,           Section
  non-camouflage facilities        M    M    301.20, "Telecommunication
                                               Facilities"
 Utilities, minor                   P    P     
Agricultural and extractive uses:
 Animal raising                     P    P(2)  
 Crop cultivation, commercial       P    P    Section
                                               301.06, "Crop Cultivation"
 Crop cultivation, non-commercial   P    P     
 Mining and quarrying               C(3) -     
 Agriculture employee housing       P    P     
Other applicable types:
                                               Section
 Accessory uses and structures      P    P    301.01, "Accessory Uses And
                                               Structures"
 Animal keeping                     P    P    Section
                                               301.03 "Animal Keeping"
 Caretaker unit                     P(4) -     
 Home occupations                   P    P    Section
                                               301.09, "Home Occupations"
 Second dwelling unit               P    P    Section
                                               301.16, "Second Dwelling Units"
 Nonconforming use                  Article 307, "Nonconforming Uses,
                                     Structures, And Lots"
 Temporary use                      Section
                                     301.21, "Temporary Uses"
 
Specific Limitations:
   (1)   Limited to no more than two rooms in a dwelling rented to not more
than a total of four persons and meals are not provided to more than four
boarders.
   (2)   Limited to 4-H and FFA projects, recognized youth organizations,
school projects, and other similar projects when conducted in compliance with
the public health and animal laws of the City and to the keeping of bovine
animals, horses and other equine animals, sheep and goats on lots 20,000 sq ft
or more. The shelter for such animals shall not be closer than 50 feet to any
residences.
   (3)   In areas designated as Mineral Resource Zones in the General Plan.
   (4)   For agricultural employees, when located on farms or ranches
containing more than 10 acres. Such dwellings shall be a permanent structure.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
200.03: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Table 200.03 prescribes the development standards for “Agricultural/Rural/
Conservation” Districts. Additional regulations are denoted in the right hand
column. Section numbers in this column refer to other sections of this Chapter,
while individual letters refer to subsections that directly follow the table.
TABLE 200.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS -
AGRICULTURAL/RURAL/CONSERVATION DISTRICTS
Standard AC RR Additional Regulations
Standard              AC   RR   Additional Regulations
Lot and density standards:
Minimum lot area      40   2.5  Section
(acres)                         200.03(a)
Minimum lot width     120  120  Section
(feet)                          200.03(a)
Minimum lot depth     120  120  Section
(feet)                          200.03(a)
Maximum density
(dwelling units/net   0.02 0.25  
acre)
Building form and location:
Maximum height (feet) 35   35   Section
                                300.06, “Heights And Height Exceptions”
Minimum yards (feet):
Front                 30   30   Section
                                300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
                                Section
Interior side         30   30   200.03(b); and section
                                300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
                                Section
Street side           30   30   200.03(b); and section
                                300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Rear                  30   30   Section
                                300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Maximum building                Section
coverage (percent of  5    10   200.03(c)
lot)
 
Additional Development Regulations:
   (a)   Reduced Lot Area, Width, and Depth. Reduced lot area, width, and depth
are allowed with cluster development provided the overall maximum density does
not exceed the standard. Deed restrictions shall be filed on each property to
ensure the overall maximum density is not exceeded through future subdivision
or development.
   (b)   Narrow Lots. For lots less than one hundred (100) feet in width, each
side yard shall be a minimum of ten (10) percent of the lot width, or five (5)
feet, whichever is greater.
   (c)   Coverage Exception. Greater coverage on individual lots may be allowed
with clustered development provided the overall site coverage of the entire
development does not exceed the standard.
   (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 201. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
201.01: Purpose
201.02: Land Use Regulations
201.03: Development Regulations
201.04: Supplemental Regulations
201.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the “Residential” Districts are to:
   A.   Maintain and enhance the city’s neighborhoods.
   B.   Ensure the provision of services and facilities needed to accommodate
planned population densities.
   C.   Provide a basis for the evaluation of development proposals for
appropriate densities within the given ranges.
   D.   Implement and provide appropriate regulations for General Plan
classifications of “Very Low Density Residential”, “Low Density Residential”,
“Low-Medium Density Residential”, “Medium Density Residential”, and “High
Density Residential”.
Additional purposes of each “Residential” District:
   RS-1 Very Low Density Residential. To provide areas for large lot or
executive home single-family subdivisions with a maximum residential density is
3.1 units per net acre. This district also allows for limited uses such as day
care homes and religious facilities that are appropriate in a very low density
residential environment.
   RS-2 Low Density Residential. To provide areas for attached or detached
single family homes with a maximum residential density of 7.5 units per net
acre. This district also allows for limited uses such as day care homes, parks,
and religious facilities that are appropriate in a low density residential
environment.
   RM-1 Low-Medium Density Residential. To accommodate low-medium densities and
more varied forms of residential development, including small-lot single-family
homes, detached zero lot line developments, duplexes, townhouses, and garden
apartments with a maximum residential density of 11.3 units per net acre This
district also allows for limited uses such as day care homes, parks, schools
and religious facilities that are appropriate in a low-medium density
residential environment. This district provides for a transition from lower-
density residential neighborhoods to medium-density multi-family areas.
   RM-2 Medium Density Residential. To accommodate a variety of housing types,
such as small-lot single-family homes, detached zero lot line developments,
duplexes, townhouses, and garden apartments with a maximum residential density
of 15.0 units per net acre. This district is intended to be located closer to
community and retail services, mixed use areas, parks, and areas where greater
access can be provided. In addition to residential uses, this district allows
for a variety of public and semi-public uses such as cultural institutions and
religious facilities that are appropriate in a medium-density residential
environment. This district provides for a transition from lower-density
residential neighborhoods to higher-density multi-family development and
commercial areas.
   RM-3 High Density Residential. This classification is intended to
accommodate attached homes, two- to four-plexes, and apartment buildings with a
maximum residential density 30.0 units per net acre. This district allows for a
variety of public and semi-public uses such as clubs and lodges, cultural
institutions, and religious facilities that are appropriate in a high-density
residential environment. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
201.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
Table 201.02 below prescribes the land use regulations for “Residential”
Districts. The regulations for each district are established by letter
designations as follows:
   “P” designates permitted uses.
   “C” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
   “M” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Minor Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
    “(#)” numbers in parentheses refer to specific limitations listed at the
end of the table.
   “-“ designates uses that are not permitted.
Use classifications are defined in Chapter 701, Use Classifications. In cases
where a specific land use or activity is not defined, the Zoning Administrator
shall assign the land use or activity to a classification that is substantially
similar in character. Use classifications and sub-classifications not listed in
the table or not found to be substantially similar to the uses below are
prohibited. The table also notes additional use regulations that apply to
various uses. Section numbers in the right hand column refer to other sections
of this Chapter.
TABLE 201.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS - RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Use Classification RS-1 RS-2 RM-1 RM-2 RM-3 Additional Regulations
Use Classification           RS-1 RS-2 RM-1 RM-2 RM-3 Additional Regulations
Residential uses:
 Single-family dwelling:    See sub-classifications below
  Attached                 -    P    P(5) P(5)      
  Detached                 P    P    P(5) P(5)      
 Multi-family residential   -    -    P    P    P    Section
                                                      201.04(b)
 Family daycare home:       See sub-classifications below
  Small                    P    P    P    P    P     
                                                      Section
  Large                    P    P    P    P    P    301.07, "Family Daycare
                                                      Home, Large"
 Group residential          P(1) P(1) P(1) P    P     
                                                      Sections
                                                      301.10, "Manufactured
 Mobile home parks          -    -    C(2) C(2) C(2) Homes" and
                                                      301.11, "Mobile Home
                                                      Parks"
Residential care facilities  See sub-classifications below
 Limited                    P    P    P    P    P     
 Large                      C    C    C    C    C     
Employee housing             P    P    P    P    P     
                                                      Section
Single room occupancy hotels -    -    C    C    C    301.18, "Single Room
                                                      Occupancy Hotels"
Public and semipublic uses:
                                                      Section
 Clubs and lodges           -    -    -    C    C    301.02, "Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales"
 Community centers          -    -    C    C    C     
 Cultural institutions      -    -    -    C    C     
 Elderly and long term care -    -    -    C    P     
 Park and recreation        P    P    P    P    P     
  facilities, public
 Religious facilities       C    C    C    C    C     
  Residential care                                    Section
 facilities, general        -    -    C    C    C    301.15, "Residential Care
                                                      Facilities, Genera"
 Schools, public or private P    P    P    P    P     
                                                      Section
                                                      304.05 "Location of
                                                      Required Parking" and
 Parking, public or private C(4) C(4) C(4) C(4) C(4) section
                                                      304.10 "Parking Area
                                                      Design and Improvement
                                                      Standards"
                                                      Section
 Social service facilities  -    -    -    -    C    301.19, "Social Service
                                                      Facilities"
Commercial uses:
 Eating, drinking, and      See sub-classifications below
  smoking establishments:
  Coffee shops/cafes       -    -    -    -    M(3) Section
                                                      300.08, "Outdoor Seating"
                                                      Sections
                                                      300.08, "Outdoor Seating"
  Restaurants              -    -    -    -    C(3) and
                                                      301.02, "Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales"
  Bed and breakfasts       -    -    -    C    C     
Transportation, communication, and utilities uses:
 Utilities, minor           P    P    P    P    P     
Agricultural and extractive uses:
  Crop cultivation,                                   Section
 commercial                 M    M    M    M    M    301.06, "Crop
                                                      Cultivation"
 Crop cultivation, non-     P    P    P    P    P     
  commercial
 Agriculture employee       P    P    P    P    P     
  housing
Other applicable types:
  Accessory uses and                                  Section
 structures                 P    P    P    P    P    301.01, "Accessory Uses
                                                      And Structures"
 Animal keeping             P    P    P    P    P    Section
                                                      301.04 "Animal Keeping"
                                                      Section
 Home occupations           P    P    P    P    P    301.09, "Home
                                                      Occupations"
                                                      Section
 Second dwelling unit       P    P    P    P    P    301.16, "Second Dwelling
                                                      Units"
 Nonconforming use          Chapter 307, "Nonconforming Uses, Structures, And
                             Lots"
 Temporary use              Section
                             301.21, "Temporary Uses"
 
Specific Limitations:
   (1)   Limited to no more than two rooms in a dwelling rented to not more
than a total of four persons and meals are not provided to more than four
boarders.
   (2)   Limited to sites with a minimum gross site area of 10 acres.
   (3)   Limited to a restaurant or café/coffee shop accessory to a mobile home
court or a private club or lodge when such use has no direct access off a
public street and accommodates only residents, members, or their guests.
   (4)   Permitted in conjunction with an existing public and institutional
use.
   (5)   Limited to small-lot subdivisions. Stand alone single-family dwellings
are not permitted.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1908, 11-19-2024)
201.03: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Table 201.03 prescribes the development standards for Residential Districts.
Additional regulations are denoted in the right hand column. Section numbers in
this column refer to other sections of this Chapter, while individual letters
refer to subsections that directly follow the table.
TABLE 201.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS -
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Standard RS-1 RS-2 RM-1 RM-2 RM-3 Additional Regulations
Standard  RS-1   RS-2  RM-1  RM-2  RM-3  Additional Regulations
Lot and density standards:
Minimum                                  Subsection
lot area  12,500 6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000 201.04C, “Reduced Minimum Lot Size, Width, And Depth”
(sq. ft.)
Minimum                                  Subsection
lot width 90     60    60    60    60    201.04C, “Reduced Minimum Lot Size, Width, And Depth”
(ft.)
Minimum                                  Subsection
lot depth 100    75    75    75    75    201.04C, “Reduced Minimum Lot Size, Width, And Depth”
(ft.)
Maximum
density   3.1    7.5   11.3  15.0  30.0   
(units/
net acre)
Minimum
density   n/a    n/a   n/a   n/a   10.0   
(units/
net acre)
Minimum
area per
dwelling  n/a    n/a   3,000 1,500 1,000  
unit (sq.
ft.)
Building form and location:
Maximum                                  Section
height    35     35    35    50    50    201.03(a); and section 300.06, “Heights And Height Exceptions”
(ft.)
Minimum
yards                                     
(ft.):
Residence                                Section
(front)   15     15    15    15    15    201.03(b); and section
                                         300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Porch     10     10    10    10    10     
(front)
Garage    20     20    20    20    20     
(front)
Interior                                 Section
side      5      5     5     5     5     201.03(c), (d) and (f); and section
                                         300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Street                                   Section
side      10     10    10    10    10    201.03(e); and section
                                         300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
                                         Section
Rear      10     5     5     10    10    201.03(f); and section
                                         300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Maximum
building
coverage  30     45    45    50    60     
(% of
lot)
Minimum                                  Section
courtyard n/a    n/a   n/a   20    20    201.03(g)
dimension
Additional standards:
Private
open                                     Subsection
space     n/a    n/a   200   75    50    201.04B, “Residential Multi- Family Development”
(sq. ft.
per unit)
Common
open                                     Subsection
space     n/a    n/a   n/a   100   100   201.04B, “Residential Multi- Family Development”
(sq. ft.
per unit)
 
Additional Development Regulations:
   (a)   Transitional Standards. Where a site is adjacent to an RS-1, RS-2, or
RM-1 district, the following standards apply:
      (1)   The maximum height within forty (40) feet of an RS-1, RS-2, or RM-
1 district boundary is thirty-five (35) feet. The maximum height within fifty
(50) feet of an RS-1, RS-2, or RM-1 district boundary is forty (40) feet.
FIGURE 201.03(a)(1): RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TRANSITIONAL STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3664.png]
 
      (2)   Buildings exceeding thirty (30) feet in height must be set back or
stepped back one (1) foot from the required interior side and rear setback
lines for every foot of height above thirty (30) feet.
   (b)   Front Yards. Where more than sixty (60) percent of such portion of the
lineal frontage of lots improved with residential buildings within any block is
comprised of lots with less than the minimum front yard requirement, then the
minimum front yard requirement for other residential buildings in such block
may be reduced to the average of the actual front yards of all of the lots in
such block with existing residential buildings, counting those which have front
yards of greater depth than the minimum requirement.
FIGURE 201.03(b): FRONT YARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3666.png]
 
   (c)   Existing Structures. When the existing side yard setback is less than
required in this Chapter, additions to such structures may conform to the
existing setback, provided that the addition does not encroach closer to the
property line than the existing structure.
   (d)   Attached Single-Family Dwellings. Required setbacks apply to the ends
of rows of attached single-family dwellings.
FIGURE 201.03(d): SETBACKS FOR ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3668.png]
 
   (e)   Street Side Yard - Reversed Corner Lots. Reversed corner lots shall
have a minimum street side yard width of twelve (12) feet. No accessory
structure shall project beyond the extension of the required front yard line of
the lot in the rear (key lot).
   (f)   Increased Yard for Certain Institutional Uses. Any building erected or
used for a school, government, or other institutional use mentioned elsewhere
in this Chapter, shall be located at least fifteen (15) feet from an RS
district, notwithstanding any lesser requirement in the district where located,
provided such building shall not be required to be located more than five (5)
feet from any lot line adjacent to any alley. The City Council may waive this
requirement for accessory buildings to provide reasonable accommodation.
   (g)   Minimum Courtyard Dimensions. Courtyards surrounded by building walls
on three (3) sides shall have a minimum dimension of twenty (20) feet.
   (h)   Driveways Accessing a Major Thoroughfare. Properties accessing a
collector or arterial street shall be developed in such a way as to provide an
on-site turnaround to prevent vehicles from backing onto the public right of
way. Design of said driveway requires approval of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
201.04: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Residential Single-Family Development. Residential single-family
structures shall be developed in accordance with the following standards.
      1.   Garage Frontage and Location:
         a.   Where garage doors face a street, garage width shall not exceed
fifty (50) percent of the width of the front facade of the building for a two
car garage home, or seventy (70) percent for a three car garage. Maximum of
three (3) garage doors may face a street.
         b.   Where garage doors face the interior of the lot (i.e. a side
loading garage) the face of the door shall be setback at least twenty-five (25)
feet from the side lot line. The front setback for such a garage is no less
than fifteen (15) feet.
         c.   Garages with three (3) or more doors, at least one (1) garage
front must be separated from the remaining garage fronts by at least two (2)
feet.
FIGURE 201.04A1: GARAGE FRONTAGE AND LOCATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3670.png]
 
      2.   Architectural Articulation. On all facades that face a street, at
least two architectural articulations are required, such as window trim, window
recesses, shutters, window boxes, bay windows, cornices, changes in material
(i.e. stone veneer), larger than normal porch, decorative garage windows, or
two other projections or recesses in a pattern that creates architectural
interest across the length of the face as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
      3.   Width. All residential structures shall have a minimum width of
twenty (20) feet.
      4.   Two-story Dwellings. Two-story dwellings shall include windows on
the facade facing the street. No second-story street-facing wall shall run in a
continuous plane of more than twenty (20) feet without a window or a
projection, offset, or recess of the building wall at least one (1) foot in
depth.
   B.   Residential Multi-Family Development. Each multiple family residential
project with two (2) or more dwelling units on a single lot shall be developed
in accordance with the following standards.
      1.   Parking and Garage Frontage Limitation. The total frontage of
parking areas visible from the street (excluding alleys), including open
parking, carports, and garages, but excluding underground parking and parking
located behind buildings, shall not exceed thirty (30) percent of the lot
frontage. The Zoning Administrator may approve a modification to this standard
where existing development patterns or topographic features make it infeasible
to limit parking and garage frontage to thirty (30) percent of lot frontage.
Parking areas not visible from the street are not subject to this limitation.
FIGURE 201.04B1: PARKING AND GARAGE FRONTAGE LIMITATIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3672.png]
 
      2.   Building Entrances:
         a.   Orientation. Developments shall relate directly to the adjacent
street, and present a pedestrian scaled entry with a residential character.
         b.   Projection or Recess. Building entrances must have a roofed
projection (such as a porch) or recess with a minimum depth of at least five
(5) feet and minimum area of fifty (50) square feet. Alternative designs that
create an enhanced entry feature facing the street, such as a trellis or
landscaped courtyard entry, may be approved.
      3.   Architectural Articulation. All multiple-family residential
buildings shall include adequate design features to create visual variety and
avoid a large-scale and bulky appearance. Building facades shall be articulated
to give the appearance of a collection of smaller structures. This requirement
shall be met by using two (2) or more of the following methods.
         a.   Facade Articulation. All street-facing facades have at least one
(1) horizontal or vertical projection or recess at least four (4) feet in
depth, or two (2) projections or recesses at least two and one-half (2.5) feet
in depth, for every twenty-five (25) horizontal feet of wall. If located on a
building with two (2) or more stories, the articulated elements must be greater
than one (1) story in height, and may be grouped rather than evenly spaced in
twenty-five (25) foot modules. Building entrances and front porches and
projections into required yards such as stoops, bays, overhangs, fireplaces,
and trellises may count towards meeting this requirement.
         b.   Variable Roof Form. Variable roof forms incorporated into the
building design, and no more than two (2) side-by-side units may be covered by
one (1) unarticulated roof. Articulations may be accomplished by changing roof
height, offsets, and direction of slope, and by introducing elements such as
dormers, towers, or parapets.
         c.   Facade Detailing and Materials. All visible building facades
incorporate details, such as window trim, window recesses, cornices, changes in
materials or other design elements, in an integrated composition. Each side of
a building that is visible from a public right-of-way shall be designed with a
complementary level of detailing and quality of materials.
         d.   Scale. The scale of a multi-family development shall be
considered within the context of its surroundings.
         e.   Use of Balconies, Bay Windows, and Other Such Projections or
Recesses. The building incorporates balconies, bay windows, entry porches or
other projections and recesses in a pattern that creates architectural interest
across the length of the facade.
FIGURE 201.04B3: ARCHITECTURAL ARTICULATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3674.png]
 
      4.   Open Space. Private and common areas shall be provided in accordance
with this section. Private areas typically consist of balconies, decks, patios,
and fenced yards. Common areas typically consist of landscaped areas, patios,
swimming pools, barbeque areas, playgrounds, trees, bushes, groundcover, and
turf. All areas not improved with buildings, parking, vehicular accessways,
trash enclosures, and similar items shall be developed as common areas with the
types of attributes described above.
         a.   Minimum Dimensions. Open space shall have the following minimum
dimensions in order to count towards open space requirements:
            (1)   Open space located on the ground level (e.g., yards, decks,
patios): ten (10) feet.
            (2)   Open space located above ground level (e.g., balconies): five
(5) feet.
         b.   Usability. A surface shall be provided that allows convenient use
for outdoor living and/or recreation. Such surface shall be a combination of
lawn, garden, flagstone, wood planking, concrete, or other serviceable, dust-
free surfacing. Slope shall not exceed ten (10) percent.
         c.   Accessibility.
            (1)   Private Open Space. The space shall be accessible to only one
(1) residential unit by a doorway to a habitable room or hallway.
            (2)   Common Open Space. The space shall be accessible to all the
residential units on the lot. It shall be served by any stairway or other
accessway qualifying as an egress facility from a habitable room.
      5.   Walkways. Walkways shall link the residential units to the public
right-of-way and with recreational and other internal facilities as well as
with other residential units.
      6.   Storage Areas. Each unit shall have a minimum of eighty (80) cubic
feet of individual, locked storage space, accessible from outside the unit.
Such area may be accessible from the private open space area for the unit, near
required parking, or adjacent to or within other common areas of the
development.
   C.   Reduced Minimum Lot Size, Width, and Depth. Smaller lots with a minimum
area of three thousand (3,000) square feet, a minimum lot width of thirty-five
(35) feet, and a minimum lot depth of sixty (60) feet may be approved with a
Conditional Use Permit when the City Council finds that the lot size and
configuration are consistent with the General Plan and will not adversely
affect adjoining uses. All such projects are subject to the following
standards:
      1.   Development Design Elements. The following required elements and the
specified number of optional elements shall be provided in addition to the open
space requirements listed below.
         a.   Required Elements. All of the following elements shall be
provided.
            (1)   Street Trees. Fifteen gallon shade trees shall be planted at
least thirty (30) feet on center along all sidewalks. Tree guards shall be
provided.
            (2)   Variety of Lot Widths. A variety of lot widths shall be
provided to accommodate a variety of home styles, setbacks, and garage
placements. At least thirty (30 percent of the lots shall vary from the
“typical” (mode) lot width in the development by at least twenty (20) percent.
         b.   Optional Elements. At least two (2) of the following elements
shall be provided.
            (1)   Traffic Calming. The development shall include streetscape
improvements, such as roundabouts, neck downs, curb bulbs, or similar traffic-
calming techniques. Provisions shall be included for the private maintenance of
such facilities by a homeowners association or other body or a local assessment
district established by the developer.
            (2)   Parkland and Open Space. The development shall include
privately maintained park or common open space at least thirty (30) percent
greater in area than the minimum required. (See subsection three (3) below for
required open space area.)
            (3)   Variable Front Yards. No more than fifty (50) percent of
homes shall be set back the same distance from the front lot line unless at
least half of them have front porches, and at least twenty-five (25) percent of
the homes shall be set back at least five (5) feet farther than the minimum.
This component may be implemented by recording “build-to” lines on the final
subdivision map.
         (4)   Alley-Accessed Parking. Parking for at least seventy-five (75)
percent of lots in the development shall be provided in the rear half of the
lot and accessed from a rear alley.
         (5)   Shared or Clustered Driveways. Driveways shall be paired so that
there is a single curb-cut providing access to two (2) houses, and the total
width for the paired driveway is not more than eighteen (18) feet.
Alternatively, driveways may be clustered (but need not share the same curb
cut) so that there is at least thirty-six (36) feet of uninterrupted curb
between each pair of clustered driveways.
      2.   Building Design Elements. At least two (2) of the following elements
shall be provided.
         a.   Variable Garage Entries. The development plan shall include
provisions for variable location of garage entries. At least thirty-five (35)
percent of the lots shall have garages that are side-loaded, set at least five
(5) feet behind the primary facade of the building or set entirely in the rear
half of the lot in a detached garage.
         b.   Porches. All single-family dwellings, attached or detached, shall
have a covered front porch with a minimum dimension of four (4) feet and a
minimum size of thirty-two (32) square feet.
         c.   Architectural Diversity. Projects with up to twenty (20) lots
shall have a minimum of three (3) unique elevations. Projects of between
twenty-one (21) and one hundred (100) lots shall have a minimum of four (4)
unique elevations. Projects of one hundred (100) or more lots shall have a
minimum of five (5) unique elevations.
      3.   Open Space. A minimum total open space area (including, but not
limited to private yards, porches, balconies, and patios) of three hundred
(300) square feet shall be provided on each lot. Also required are common open-
space areas of two hundred (200) square feet per lot that provide usable and
accessible open space for the recreation and outdoor enjoyment of the
development’s residents and their guests. To qualify as common open space, the
area(s) shall be centrally located, have a minimum usable width of twenty-five
(25) feet, and be at least fifty (50) percent open to the sky and the common
open space is not located on the lot served, but serves multiples lots. The
requirement for common open space may be waived subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   The design accommodates five hundred (500) square feet of private
open space on each individual lot,
         b.   the minimum dimension of the private open space is ten (10) feet,
and
         c.   the subdivision is located within 1/4 mile of a park, school, or
other available open space.
      4.   Required Findings.
         a.   The lot size and project density are consistent with the General
Plan;
         b.   The lots and associated development would not adversely affect
adjoining uses;
         c.   Additional site and building design elements are in evidence; and
      d.   The lot size is acceptable considering site topography, public-
street access, availability of utilities, existing neighborhood
characteristics, including the average density of surrounding development.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 202. DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS
SECTION:
202.01: Purpose
202.02: Land Use Regulations
202.03: Development Standards
202.04: Supplemental Regulations
202.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the Downtown Districts are to:
   A.   Maintain a thriving, vibrant Downtown compatible with surrounding land
uses.
   B.   Foster the location of cultural and civic uses and public open space to
maintain Downtown as the civic core of the City.
   C.   Provide for a range of commercial and retail services that add to a
diversified economic base.
   D.   Allow mixed uses to create a more vibrant community and offer
additional opportunities for housing for residents requiring convenient access
to community services and less dependency on auto transportation.
   E.   Ensure that development is visually attractive and pedestrian friendly.
   F.   Preserve and enhance the pedestrian-oriented environment of the
Downtown area.
   G.   Ensure that potential development and redevelopment is integrated into
the Downtown and supports the vitality of the area.
Additional purposes of each district within the Downtown Districts:
DR-N Downtown Retail - North of Olive Avenue. Maintain the pedestrian- and
transit- oriented environment of retail, restaurants, services, and government
offices in the heart of Porterville's Downtown, focused on Main Street.
Maintain the traditional Downtown character, with buildings built immediately
adjacent to the sidewalk, active commercial uses on the ground floor, ample on-
street parking, and a visually attractive streetscape with trees, historic
street lights, benches, and other pedestrian amenities.
DR-S Downtown Retail - South of Olive Avenue. Create an attractive commercial
corridor that provides a welcoming gateway at the southern entrance to Downtown
while offering a broader mix of service-oriented establishments characteristic
of historic development in the area. Buildings should line the street, with
street trees along the entire length of the street, and small landscaped front
yards between the buildings and the sidewalk.
DR-D Downtown Retail - D Street Corridor. Provide for a mix of medium-scale
retail and service uses in a manner compatible with the Downtown pedestrian
environment. Buildings should line the street, with deep landscaped front yards
and rows of trees.
D-MX Downtown Mixed-Use. Create a mixed-use area that attracts businesses and
residents to locate Downtown, and provides a transition area between commercial
areas and residential neighborhoods. Allow a mix of commercial, service,
office, and residential uses that do not adversely impact one another in a
significant way. Create an attractive streetscape of buildings that line the
street, with landscaping and trees tailored to the width and the existing
design character of the street.
D-PO Downtown Professional Office. Encourage the adaptive re-use of existing
buildings with office and professional uses, and infill of new office
buildings, in order to provide convenient services to local residents and
businesses, complement nearby retail development, and maintain the historic
residential character of the area. Maintain the pattern of small lots, historic
residential building forms, landscaped front yards, and street trees in planter
strips.
D-PS Downtown Public and Semi-Public. Provide areas for larger-scale public
facilities that serve the community, with a focus on integrating development
into the Downtown. Encourage land uses and design features that enhance the
vitality, character and quality of life of the Downtown and surrounding
residential areas. Ensure that the traditional block pattern of Downtown is
maintained. Incorporate public streets and pedestrian walkways that connect
these larger scale projects to Downtown streets and walkways. Design streets
with attractive landscaped front yards and street trees, consistent with the
character of existing and adjoining streets.
DRM-2 Downtown Medium Density Residential. Encourage a variety of housing
types, such as small-lot single-family homes, detached zero lot line
developments, duplexes, townhouses, and garden apartments with a maximum
residential density of 16.5 units per acre in the Downtown area. Encourage
housing in Downtown to provide opportunities for residents to live in close
proximity to community services and retail establishments, and to help support
the vitality of Downtown businesses. Maintain the existing character of
buildings that front the street, landscaped front yards, and street trees.
DRM-3 Downtown High Density Residential. Facilitate the development of attached
homes, two- to four-plexes, and apartment or condominium buildings with a
maximum residential density of 33.0 units per acre in Downtown, to create a
more vibrant community and offer additional opportunities for housing for
residents requiring convenient access to community services and less dependency
on auto transportation. Maintain the existing character of buildings that front
the street, landscaped front yards, and street trees.
D-GC Downtown General Commercial. Provide areas for retail, service, and
heavier commercial uses that meet local and community needs in a manner
complimentary to the adjacent Downtown pedestrian-oriented environment. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1888, 11-2-2021)
202.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
Table 202.02 below prescribes the land use regulations for “Downtown”
Districts. The regulations for each district are established by letter
designations as follows:
“P” designates permitted uses.
“C” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and approval
of a Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
“M” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and approval
of a Minor Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
“(#)” numbers in parentheses refer to specific limitations listed at the end of
the table.
“-” designates uses that are not permitted.
Use classifications are defined in Chapter 700, Use Classifications. In cases
where a specific land use or activity is not defined, the Zoning Administrator
shall assign the land use or activity to a classification that is substantially
similar in character. Use classifications and sub-classifications not listed in
the table or not found to be substantially similar to the uses below are
prohibited. The table also notes additional use regulations that apply to
various uses. Section numbers in the right hand column refer to other sections
of this Chapter.
TABLE 202.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS - DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS
Use Classification DR-N DR-S DR-D D-MX DRM- 2 DRM- 3 D-PO D-GC D-PS Additional
                                                                    Regulations
Use             DR-N DR-S DR-D D-MX DRM- DRM- D-PO D-GC D-PS   Additional Regulations
Classification                      2    3
Residential use classifications:
Single-family   See sub-classifications below
dwelling:
Attached        P(1) -    -    -    P    P    -    -    -       
Multi-family    P(1) P(2) -    P    P    P    P(1) -    -      Section
residential                                                    201.04(b)
Family day care See sub-classifications below
home:
Small           P    P    -    P    P    P    P    -    -       
Large           -    -    -    P    P    P    -    -    -      Section
                                                               301.07, “Family Daycare Home, Large”
Group           -    -    -    P(3) P    P    -    -    -       
residential
Mixed use                      C                               Section
development                                                    203.04, “Supplemental Regulations”
Residential     See sub-classifications belowP
care facilities
Limited         P    P    -    P    P    P    P    -    -
Large           C    C    -    C    C    C    C    -    -
Single room                                                    Section
occupancy       C    C    -    -    C    C    C    -    -      301.18, “Single Room Occupancy Hotels”
hotels
Employee        P(1) P(2) -    P    P    P    P(1) -    -
housing
Public and semi-public use classifications:
Clubs and       C(4) P    P    P    -    -    P(5) P    -      Section
lodges                                                         301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
Colleges and
trade schools,  C(5) C    C    C    -    -    C    C    P       
public or
private
Community       -    -    -    C    -    -    -    -    P       
center
Cultural        C(5) C    C    C    -    -    P    C    P       
institutions
Day care        C    C    C    C    C    C    P    -    C       
centers
Elderly and     -    -    -    -    P    P    P    -    -       
long term care
Government      P    P    P    -    -    -    P    -    P       
offices
Instructional   P(5) P    P    P    -    -    P    P    P       
services
Park and
recreation      P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P       
facilities,
public
Religious       -    -    -    C    C    C    -    -    -       
facilities
Residential
care            -    -    -    -    C    C    -    -    -      Section
facilities,                                                    301.15, “Residential Care Facilities, General”
general
Schools, public P(4) P    P    P    -    -    -    -    P       
or private
Social service  C    C    -    P    P    P    C    -    -      Section
facilities                                                     301.19, “Social Service Facilities”
Commercial use classifications:
Animal care,
sales, and      See sub-classifications below
services:
Kennels         -    -    C    -    -    -    -    C    -       
Pet stores      M(6) P(6) P(6) M(6) -    -    -    P(6) -       
Veterinary      -    -    C    -    -    -    -    P(6) -       
services, small
Artists’      P    P    P    P    -    -    -    P    -       
studios
Automobile/
vehicle sales   See sub-classifications below
and services:
Automobile/     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    P    -       
vehicle rentals
Automobile/
vehicle sales   -    C    C(7) -    -    -    -    P    -       
and leasing
Automobile/
vehicle service -    P    C    -    -    -    -    C    -      Section
and repair,                                                    301.04, “Automobile/Vehicle Service And Repair, Major And Minor”
major
Automobile/
vehicle service -    P    C(7) -    -    -    -    P    -      Section
and repair,                                                    301.04, “Automobile/Vehicle Service And Repair, Major And Minor”
minor
Automobile/
vehicle service -    P    -    -    -    -    -    C    -      Section
and repair,                                                    301.05, “Auto Service Stations And Car Washing”
washing
Service station -    -    -    -    -    -    -    C    -      Section
                                                               301.05, “Auto Service Stations And Car Washing”
Banks and
financial       See sub-classifications below
institutions:
Banks and       P(8) P(8) P    P(8) -    -    P(8) P    -       
credit unions
Building
materials and   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    P(9) -       
services
Business        P    P    P    P    -    -    P    P    -       
services        (10) (10) (10) (10)
Cannabis        P    P    P    P    -    -    -    P    -      Municipal Code
dispensary                                                     chapter 15, article VII
Commercial
entertainment   See sub-classifications below
and recreation:
Cinema/theaters C    C    C    C    -    -    -    C    -      Section
                                                               301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
Downtown        -    -    C    C    -    -    -    C    C      Section
entertainment                                                  301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
Small-scale     C    C    C    C    -    -    -    C    -      Section
                                                               301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
Eating,
drinking, and   See sub-classifications below
smoking
establishments:
Bars/night                                                     Sections
clubs/lounges   C    C    C    C    -    -    -    C    -      300.08, “Outdoor Seating”; and
                                                               301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
Coffee shops/   P(8) P(8) P(8) P(8) -    -    P(8) P(8) P      Section
cafes                                                   (8,13) 300.08, “Outdoor Seating”
                                                        P      Sections
Restaurants     P(8) P(8) P(8) P(8) -    -    P(8) P(8) (8,13) 300.08, “Outdoor Seating”; and
                                                               301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
Tobacco bars    C    C    C    C    -    -    -    C    -       
Food and
beverage retail                               P(11             Section
sales, less     P    P    P    P    -    -    )    P    P(11)  301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
than 5,000
square feet
Food and
beverage retail
sales, more     P    P    P    P    -    -    -    -    -      Section
than 5,000 to                                                  301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
50,000 square
feet
Hotels and      C    C    C    C    -    -    -    C    -       
motels
Bed and         -    -    -    P(3) -    P(3) P(3) -    -       
breakfasts
Maintenance and
repair services -    -    -    -    -    -    -    P    -       
less than 1,500                                    (12)
square feet
Medical         See sub-classifications below
facilities:
Medical clinic  -    P    P    P    -    -    P    P    P       
Professional/   P    P    P    P    -    -    P    P    P       
medical         (13)
Mixed use                      C                               Section
development                                                    203.04, “Supplemental Regulations”
Nurseries and   -    C    C    C    -    -    -    P    -       
garden centers
Offices:        See sub-classifications below
General offices P    P    P    P    -    -    P    P    P       
                (13)
Walk-in         P    P    P    P    -    -    P    P    P       
clientele
Parking, public P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P       
or private
Personal        P    P    P    P    -    -    P    P    -       
services
Retail sales,
less than       P    P    P    P    -    -    P    P    -       
50,000 square                                 (11)
feet
Retail sales,
more than       C    C    C    C    -    -    -    C    -       
50,000 square
feet
Industrial use classifications:
Handicraft/
custom          -    -    -    -    -    -    -    P    -       
manufacturing
Industry,       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    C    -       
limited
Recycling       See sub-classifications below
facilities:
Recycling                                                      Section
collection      -    C    -    -    -    -    -    C    C      301.14, “Recycling Facilities”
facility
Reverse vending -    P    P    P    -    -    -    P    P      Section
machine                                                        301.14, “Recycling Facilities”
Recycling                                                      Section
collection      -    C    -    -    -    -    -    C    C      301.14, “Recycling Facilities”
facility
Transportation, communication, and utilities use classifications:
Communication   See sub-classifications below
facilities:
Antenna and
transmission    P    P    P    P              P    P           Section
towers,         (14) (14) (14) (14) -    -    (14) (14) P(14)  301.20, “Telecommunication Facilities”
camouflage
facilities
Antenna and
transmission    C    C    C    C              C    C           Section
towers, non-    (14) (14) (14) (14) -    -    (14) (14) C(14)  301.20, “Telecommunication Facilities”
camouflage
facilities
Broadcasting    -    M    M    M    -    -    -    M    -      Section
facility                                                       301.20, “Telecommunication Facilities”
Call center     -    -    -    -    -    -    P(5) P(5) P       
Recording       -    -    P(6) P(6) -    -    -    P(6) -       
studio
Transportation  P    P    P
passenger       (15) (15) (15) -    -    -    -    -    -       
terminals
Utilities,      P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P       
minor
Other
applicable                                                      
types:
Accessory uses  P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P      Section
and structures                                                 301.01, “Accessory Uses And Structures”
Home            P    P    P    P    P    P    -    -    -      Section
occupations                                                    301.09, “Home Occupations”
Second dwelling -    -    -    -    P    P    -    -    -      Section
unit                                                           301.16, “Second Dwelling Units”
Nonconforming   Chapter 307, “Nonconforming Uses, Structures, And Lots”
use
Temporary use   Section
                301.21, “Temporary Uses”
 
Specific Limitations:
   (1)   Residential units allowed only on upper floors unless approved with a
Conditional Use Permit. Common ancillary areas are allowed on the ground floor
except on Main Street.
   (2)   On Main Street, residential units are allowed only on upper floors
unless approved with a Conditional Use Permit.
   (3)   Limited to no more than two rooms in a dwelling rented to not more
than a total of four persons and meals are not provided to more than four
boarders.
   (4)   Allowed only on upper floors and limited to 5,000 square feet in size.
   (5)   Limited to 5,000 square feet in size.
   (6)   Provided that such use shall be completely enclosed in a building of
soundproof construction.
   (7)   Limited to uses conducted wholly within a building enclosed on all
sides including the display, storage, repair, and reconditioning of vehicles.
   (8)   Drive-through facilities are prohibited.
   (9)   Bulk storage of sand, gravel, or cement is not allowed.
   (10)   Wholesale services are not allowed.
   (11)   Permitted only as accessory to a primary use.
   (12)   No outdoor operations or outdoor storage are allowed.
   (13)   Limited to 25 percent of ground floor area unless additional floor
area is approved with a Conditional Use Permit. No square footage limitation on
upper floors.
   (14)   Shall not be located within 300 feet of any R district except as
detailed in
301.20e.
   (15)   Not allowed on Main Street. No repair or storage of vehicles is
allowed.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1888, 11-2-2021; Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
202.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Table 202.03 prescribes the development standards for Downtown Districts.
Additional regulations are denoted in the right hand column. Section numbers in
this column refer to other sections of this Chapter, while individual letters
refer to subsections that directly follow the table.
TABLE 202.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS - DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS
Standard DR-N DR-S DR-D D-MX DRM-2 DRM-3 D-PO D-GC D-PS Additional Standards
Standard     DR-N       DR-S         DR-D  D-MX                DRM-2 DRM-3  D-PO       D-GC  D-PS                           Additional Standards
Lot, density, and block standards:
Minimum lot
area (sq.    -          -            -     -                   6,000 6,000  6,000      6,000 6,000                           
ft.)
Minimum lot  -          -            -     -                   60    60     60         60    60                              
width (ft.)
Minimum lot  -          -            -     -                   75    75     75         75    75                              
depth (ft.)
Minimum
density      -          -            -     15                  -     -      -          -     -                               
(dwelling
units/acre)
Maximum
density      No maximum, FAR applies
(dwelling    to combined residential -     41.0                16.5  33.0   -          -     -                               
units/net    and nonresidential
acre)
Maximum
block        Dimension: 500; 600 with mid block pedestrian way                                                              Subsection
dimension                                                                                                                   202.04B, “Maximum Block Length”
(ft.)
Building form, location, and street design:
             50 on corner lots and lots                              40; 50            •50 on corner lots and lots over 2
Maximum      over 2 acres; 40 on all other 50                  35    on     30; 40     acres;                               Section
height (ft.) lots                                                    corner with CUP   • 40 on interior lots              300.06, “Heights And Height Exceptions”
                                                                     lots
Minimum      Main St.:  -            -     -                   -     -      -          -     -                               
height (ft.) 28
Minimum      See sub-classifications below                                                                                   
yards (ft.):
             0 min.; 10 Commerc ial:
             max. Shall 15 for
             be paved   buildings,   10
Front (Main  on Main    10 for       min.;                                                                                  •Subsection
St. frontage St. with   parking.     20    0; 10 on Main St.                                                                202.04I, “Building Projections”;
is always    tile,      Main St. and max.  or ground floor     20    15     15 min.;   10    20                             •Unless otherwise stated, shall be
considered   stone,     Olive St.:   D     residential                      25 max.                                         landscaped in accord with article 303,
the front of brick,     10 min., 20  St.:                                                                                   “Landscaping”
the lot)     concrete,  max.         15
             or         Residential:
             comparable 15
             material
             •Commercial: 0                                  1 - 2
Interior     •Residential: Where residential is allowed, everstories: 5                                                   Subsection
side         unit shall have at least 1 window with a minimum  3 or more    5          0     20                             202.04I, “Building Projections”
             of 15 ft. of clear separation from another        stories: 10
             building or wall
             East of                                                                                                        •Subsection
Street side  2nd St.:                      0; 10 if on Main                                                                 202.04I, “Building Projections”; and
or rear on a 10;        10           10    St. and for ground  10    10     15         10    20                             •Unless otherwise stated, shall be
street       Otherwise:                    floor residential                                                                landscaped in accord with article 303,
frontage     0 min.; 10                                                                                                     “Landscaping”
             max.
Transitional                                                                                                                Section
- street     5          15           15                                     15         15    15                             202.03(c) “Transitional Standards”
side
             •Commercial: 0
Rear, not on •Residential: Where residential is allowed, every            0, 5 from                                       Subsection
a street     unit shall have at least 1 window with a minimum  10    10     alley      0     20                             202.04I, “Building Projections”
frontage     of 15 ft. of clear separation from another
             building or wall
Maximum
floor area   3.0        3.0          3.0   3.0                 -     -      0.50       1.0   0.25(a)                         
ratio, all
uses
Maximum
building     -          -            -     -                   50    60     -          -     50                              
coverage (%
of lot)
Minimum
percent of   -          50(b)        50(b) 50(b)               -     -      -          -     -                               
building at
setback line
Parking:
Maximum curb
cut per lot  1, none on 1, unless more are required by the city for public  1          1, unless more are required by the   Subsection
or street    Main St.   services                                                       city for public services             202.04D, “Parking”
frontage
Maximum curb
cut width    20         20           20    20                  20    20     10         20    20                              
(ft.)
Landscaped              5; 10 on
setback                 Main,        5; 10
between      5          Orange, and  on D  5; 10 on Main St.   10    10     10         5     10                             Article 303, “Landscaping”
parking and             C Streets    St.
street (ft.)
                                                                            5, may be
                                                               10; 5 may be occupied
                                                               occupied by  by a
                                                               a pedestrian pedestrian
Setback of                                                     walkway      walkway
parking from 5          5            5     5                   paved with   with tile, 5     10                              
buildings                                                      tile, stone, stone,
(ft.)                                                          brick,       brick,
                                                               concrete, or concrete,
                                                               comparable   or
                                                               material     comparable
                                                                            material
Parking lot
location     Yes        Yes          Yes   Yes                 Yes   Yes    Yes        Yes   Yes                            Subsection
standards                                                                                                                   202.04D, “Parking”
apply
Open space and landscaping:
Usable open
space (sq.                                                     150, 50 of                                                   Subsection
ft. per      75         75           -     100                 which shall  -          -     -                              202.04E, “Open Space”
residential                                                    be private
unit)
Additional standards:
Supplemental                                                                                                                Section
regulations  Yes        Yes          Yes   Yes                 Yes   Yes    Yes        Yes   Yes                            202.04, “Supplemental Regulations”
apply
 
Notes:
Additional Development Regulations:
   (a)   Determining FAR. When determining FAR in the D-PS district, meeting
rooms, cafeteria facilities, and conference facilities are excluded from floor
area.
   (b)   Retail Stores or Shopping Centers. The percent of building at setback
line requirement may be waived with Conditional Use Permit approval for retail
stores or shopping centers with a gross floor area of fifty thousand (50,000)
square feet or greater when the City Council finds that alternative features
have been incorporated into the project to achieve pedestrian orientation and
to accommodate pedestrians and bicycle access.
   (c)   Transitional Standards. When a site is adjacent to an R district, the
following standards apply:
      (1)   Buildings exceeding twenty (20) feet in height must be set back
five (5) feet from the interior side and rear property line; for buildings
exceeding twenty-five (25) feet in height shall be stepped back one (1)
additional foot for every foot of height above twenty-five (25) feet.
      (2)   The maximum height within forty (40) feet of an R district boundary
is thirty-five (35) feet. The maximum height within fifty (50) feet of an R
district boundary is forty (40) feet.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
202.04: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Design Guidelines. All development shall comply with the Downtown
Design Guidelines adopted by resolution.
   B.   Maximum Block Length. Block length in the downtown districts are
limited to five hundred (500) feet, measured from curb edge to curb edge. A
block length of up to six hundred (600) feet shall only be allowed when a mid-
block pedestrian connection is provided.
   C.   Street Preservation. Existing streets in Downtown shall be preserved.
Public right-of-way shall not be eliminated or abandoned unless substantial
public benefits are provided such as a new park.
   D.   Parking. Parking shall be provided and maintained according to the
general standards of Chapter 304, On-site Parking and Loading, as well as the
standards of this subsection.
      1.   Parking Location:
         a.   Parking shall be located at the rear of the site or at the side
of the building.
         b.   Parking shall not be located between a public street and a
building except for double frontage lots. Parking shall only be located between
a public street and a building in the rear of a double frontage lot where no
other alternative exists.
         c.   The parking location requirements may be waived with Conditional
Use Permit approval for retail stores or shopping centers with a gross floor
area of fifty thousand (50,000) square feet or greater when the City Council
finds that alternative features have been incorporated into the project to
achieve pedestrian orientation and to accommodate pedestrians and bicycle
access.
      2.   Parking Lot Access:
         a.   Access shall be provided from a side street or alley when they
are available.
         b.   Commercial parking lot access shall not be provided from a
residential street where alternate access is available.
         c.   Wherever possible, parking entrances shall share curb cuts in
order to minimize the overall number of curb cuts.
      3.   Residential Parking:
         a.   Garages or other enclosed or covered parking facilities for use
by residents shall not be a significant visible feature from the public street
or from adjacent bikeways, sidewalks or other pedestrian amenities.
         b.   Residential parking shall be clearly signed and reserved for the
residents.
   E.   Open Space:
      1.   Open Space - Residential Uses. Private and common open space areas
shall be provided in multi-family developments in accordance with this section.
Private areas typically consist of balconies, decks, patios, and fenced yards.
Common areas typically consist of landscaped areas, patios, swimming pools,
barbeque areas, playgrounds, trees, bushes, groundcover, and turf.
         a.   Minimum Dimensions. Open space shall have the following minimum
dimensions in order to count towards open space requirements:
      1.   Open space located on the ground level (e.g., common areas, decks,
patios): ten (10) feet.
      2.   Open space located above ground level (e.g., balconies): five (5)
feet.
         b.   Usability. A surface shall be provided that allows convenient use
for outdoor living and/or recreation. Such surface shall be a combination of
lawn, garden, flagstone, wood planking, concrete, or other serviceable, dust-
free surfacing. Slope shall not exceed ten (10) percent.
         c.   Accessibility.
            (1)   Private Open Space. The space shall be accessible to only one
(1) residential unit by a doorway to a habitable room or hallway.
            (2)   Common Open Space. The space shall be accessible to all the
residential units on the lot.
         d.   Existing Buildings. If the project involves the renovation of an
existing building and it is not feasible to provide outdoor open space, open
space shall be provided in interior common areas such as a community or fitness
room.
      2.   Open Space - Commercial Uses. Commercial developments on lots
greater than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet shall provide a plaza or
outdoor dining area which provides public seating and is accessible from the
public sidewalk.
         a.   Minimum Size: three hundred (300) square feet for lots between
fifteen thousand (15,000) and thirty thousand (30,000) square feet in size; six
hundred (600) square feet for lots thirty thousand (30,000) square feet in size
or larger.
         b.   Minimum Dimensions: Twelve (12) feet.
         c.   Parking Lot Buffering. The required public area shall be
separated from any parking area with a minimum five (5) foot wide landscaped
buffer area and screened with a decorative wall or berm (two and one-half to
three and one-half (2.5 to 3.5) feet high.
   F.   On-Site Pedestrian Walkways. In the D-PO District, all front yards
shall contain a continuous front walk connecting the public sidewalk to the
front entrance steps of the building. In all other districts, on-site
pedestrian circulation and access shall be provided according to the following
standards.
      1.   Internal Connections. A system of pedestrian walkways shall connect
all buildings on a site to each other, to on-site automobile and bicycle
parking areas, and to any on-site open space areas or pedestrian amenities.
      2.   To Street Network. An on-site walkway shall connect the primary
building entry or entries to a public sidewalk on each street frontage. Such
walkway shall be the shortest practical distance between the main entry and
sidewalk.
      3.   To Neighbors. Direct and convenient access shall be provided from
commercial and mixed-use projects to adjoining neighborhood residential and
commercial streets. These connections shall remain accessible at all times, and
not be gated.
      4.   Pedestrian Walkway Design:
         a.   Walkways shall be a minimum of five (5) feet wide and shall be
paved with concrete, stone, tile, brick, or comparable material.
         b.   Fifteen (15) gallon shade trees shall be planted along walkways
at least thirty (30) feet on center.
         c.   Walkways shall be illuminated with an intensity of at least 0.25
foot-candles at the ground level during the hours of darkness.
         d.   Primary pedestrian routes and access points shall be clearly
differentiated from driveways, parking aisles, and parking and loading spaces
through the use of elevation changes, a different paving material, or similar
method.
         e.   Where a required walkway is parallel and adjacent to an auto
travel lane, it shall be raised or separated from the auto travel lane by a
raised curb at least four (4) inches high, bollards, or other physical barrier.
   G.   Public Improvements. Any new commercial or multi-family buildings or
structural alterations and additions to commercial or multi-family buildings
with a combined building permit valuation of $21,569, adjusted annually based
on Engineering News Records analysis, over a two (2) year period, shall provide
public improvements between the building and the curb in accordance with the
following:
      1.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided if none already exist or if
the existing sidewalks are in poor condition.
      2.   Street Furniture. Trash receptacles, benches, bike racks, and other
street furniture from a list maintained by the City Planning Division shall be
provided.
      3.   Street Lights. Pedestrian scaled street lights (twelve (12) to
eighteen (18) feet tall), including attachments from which banners may be hung,
from a list maintained by the City Planning Division shall be provided.
      4.   Street Trees. Shade trees shall be planted at least thirty (30) feet
on center. Tree guards shall be provided. Trees shall be a minimum of fifteen
(15) gallons in size. A minimum of ten (10) percent of the required trees shall
be twenty-four (24) inch box size or larger.
      5.   Sidewalk Shade. A minimum of fifty (50) percent of the sidewalk
shall be shaded by a double row of trees, or a building projection (awning,
overhang, or pedestrian shade structure) on one side and a street tree on the
other side. In areas where one hundred (100) percent of the building is to be
at the property line, this requirement can only be met by a building projection
on one side and a street tree on the other side. If trees are used, the
required amount of shading must be achieved within fifteen (15) years.
FIGURE 202.04G5: SIDEWALK SHADE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4414.png]
   H.   Fences and Freestanding Walls:
      1.   Maximum Height
         a.   Within or Along Required Yards. No solid fence or freestanding
wall within or along the exterior boundary of a required yard shall exceed a
height of three and one-half (3.5) feet. Open or lattice type fences, or
hedges, shall not exceed a height of four (4) feet.
         b.   Outside Required Yards. Solid fences or freestanding wall located
outside of required yards shall be no higher than six (6) feet in height.
      2.   Design and Materials. Fencing visible from a street shall be treated
as an integral part of the architecture, with materials, colors, and detailing
drawn from the building they surround or adjoin. Colors shall match City color
specifications.
         a.   Prohibition on Hazardous Fencing Materials. The use of barbed
wire, razor wire, ultra barrier, electrified, and other hazardous fencing is
not permitted.
         b.   Prohibition on Chain Link Fencing. Use of chain-link fencing or
like material is not permitted in front or street-facing yards, and is
permitted only in rear and interior side yards that do not abut public and
semi-public land uses.
         c.   Limitation on Concrete Block. Plain, concrete block or slump
stone is not permitted as a fencing material. Smooth-faced or “precision”
concrete block shall be finished with stucco and capped with a decorative cap.
Decorative block is an acceptable fencing material.
      3.   Visibility at Intersections. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this section, fences and walls shall comply with the visibility standards
contained in Section
300.16, Visibility at Driveways and Intersections (Sight Distance).
   I.   Building Projections:
      1.   Front Porches and Building Entrances. Front porches and building
entrance structures may encroach up to ten (10) feet into front and side yards
facing the street for up to forty (40) percent of the lot frontage.
      2.   Architectural Projections. Bay windows, balconies, and other
architectural features such as chimneys may project into required yards up to
three (3) feet.
      3.   Building Projections into the Public Right-of-Way. Building
projections may encroach into the public right-of-way up to three (3) feet for
the purpose of providing shade over the sidewalk, provided they are no closer
than twelve (12) feet from sidewalk grade. The maximum width of any projection
is ten (10) feet.
FIGURE 202.04I3: PROJECTIONS INTO RIGHT-OF-WAY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4416.png]
   4.   Awnings and Overhangs. Awnings, overhangs, and pedestrian shade
structures, may encroach into the public right-of-way up to eight (8) feet for
the purpose of providing shade over the sidewalk, provided they are at least
ten (10) feet above sidewalk grade. Awnings and canopies shall comply with the
Downtown Design Guidelines adopted by Resolution 48-2010.
FIGURE 202.04I4: AWNINGS AND OVERHANGS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4418.png]
   J.   Building Design:
      1.   Commercial Building Design:
         a.   Ground Floor Windows. Facades facing streets, plazas, and
courtyards shall be lined with windows. Where blank walls are necessary, they
shall be on side or interior facades not facing streets. Exterior walls facing
an adjacent public street, or facing onto a park, plaza, or other public
outdoor space shall include windows, doors, or other openings for at least
fifty (50) percent of the building wall area located between two and one-half
(2.5) and seven (7) feet above the elevation of the sidewalk.
FIGURE 202.04J1a: GROUND FLOOR WINDOWS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4420.png]
         b.   Limits on Blank Walls. No wall shall run in a continuous plane
for more than twenty (20) feet without an opening on Main Street and Olive
Avenue, and for more than thirty (30) feet on other streets. Openings
fulfilling this requirement shall have transparent glazing and provide views
into work areas, display areas, sales areas, lobbies, or similar active spaces,
or into window displays that are at least three (3) feet deep.
FIGURE 202.04J1b: LIMITS ON BLANK WALLS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4422.png]
         c.   Wall Plane Articulation. Windows, doors, columns, and other
features shall be recessed or project forward from the wall plane, such that
there is a minimum two (2)-inch recess of the window plane from the wall plane,
a minimum four (4)-inch projection from the window plane and outer edge of
trim, and a total of at least nine (9) inches from the window plane to the
outermost plane of a wall, column, or other articulation feature.
FIGURE 202.04J1c: WALL PLANE ARTICULATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4424.png]
         d.   Building Articulation. Commercial building facades shall include
building projections or recesses, doorway and window trim, and other details
that provide architectural articulation and design interest.
         e.   Exterior Building Materials and Colors:
            (1)   A unified palette of materials and colors shall be used on
all sides of buildings regardless of orientation.
            (2)   Exterior building materials shall be brick, stucco, concrete
block, painted wood clapboard, painted metal clapboard or other quality,
durable materials approved by the Zoning Administrator.
            (3)   The building base (bulkhead) shall be tile, stone, brick,
concrete, or other comparable durable material; stucco is prohibited.
            (4)   The exterior use of slump block, board and batten, dark
reflective glass, galvanized metal, and wood or composition shingles is
prohibited. Colors shall reflect the historic character of Downtown.
Fluorescent paints, blues, purple, bright red or orange, pink, and bright green
are prohibited on Main Street.
         f.   Building Entrances:
            (1)   Buildings shall be oriented to face public streets.
            (2)   Building frontages shall be generally parallel to streets,
and the primary building entrances shall be located on a public street.
            (3)   Building entrances shall be emphasized with special
architectural and landscape treatments.
            (4)   Rear entry doors, door frames, door hardware, signs and
lighting fixtures shall match types utilized on the front facade and/or that
are appropriate to the parent building’s historic period.
            (5)   In mixed-use developments, entrances to residential units
shall be physically separated from the entrance to the permitted commercial use
and clearly marked with a physical feature such as a recess or projection
incorporated into the building or appropriately scaled element applied to the
facade.
      2.   Residential Building Design:
         a.   Residential Architectural Articulation. All multiple-family
residential buildings and mixed-use buildings that include residential uses
shall include adequate design features to create visual variety and avoid a
large-scale and bulky appearance. Long facades shall be broken up into smaller
modules. This requirement can be met by using two (2) or more of the following
methods.
            (1)   Facade Articulation. All street-facing facades have at least
one (1) horizontal or vertical projection or recess at least four (4) feet in
depth, or two (2) projections or recesses at least two and one-half (2.5) feet
in depth, for every twenty-five (25) horizontal feet of wall. If located on a
building with two (2) or more stories, the articulated elements shall be
greater than one (1) story in height, and may be grouped rather than evenly
spaced in twenty-five (25) foot modules. Building entrances and front porches
and projections into required yards such as stoops, bays, overhangs,
fireplaces, and trellises may count towards meeting this requirement.
FIGURE 202.04J2a(1): FACADE ARTICULATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4426.png]
            (2)    Variable Roof Form. Variable roof forms incorporated into
the building design, and no more than two (2) side-by-side units are covered by
one (1) unarticulated roof. Articulations may be accomplished by changing roof
height, offsets, and direction of slope, and by introducing elements such as
dormers, towers, or parapets.
            (3)   Facade Detailing and Materials. All visible building facades
incorporate details, such as window trim, window recesses, cornices, changes in
materials or other design elements, in an integrated composition. Each side of
a building that is visible from a public right-of-way shall be designed with a
complementary level of detailing and quality of materials.
            (4)   Use of Balconies, Bay Windows, and Other Such Projections or
Recesses. The building incorporates balconies, bay windows, entry porches or
other projections and recesses in a pattern that creates architectural interest
across the length of the facade.
         b.   Residential Building Facade and Entrances. The following
standards apply to residential buildings and mixed-use projects that include
residential uses.
            (1)   Orientation. All units located along public rights-of-way
shall have the primary entrance facing this right-of-way. Exceptions to this
requirement shall only be approved for projects where multiple-family housing
is located on four (4) lane streets carrying high traffic volumes and/or
streets that do not allow on-street parking. In such cases, the project shall
be oriented around courtyards.
            (2)   Street-facing Facades. Street-facing facades of residential
buildings shall be designed as front facades and shall include stoops, porches,
recessed windows, and bay windows or balconies.
            (3)   Projection or Recess. Building entrances shall have a roofed
projection (such as a porch) or recess with a minimum depth of at least five
(5) feet and minimum area of fifty (50) square feet. Alternative designs that
create a welcoming entry feature facing the street, such as a trellis or
landscaped courtyard entry, may be approved.
            (4)   Entrances. Provide at least one (1) building entrance for
every one hundred (100) feet of street frontage.
   K.   Mechanical Equipment. Mechanical equipment, including rooftop
mechanical equipment, shall be screened from view from eye level at public
streets, and the screening shall be designed as an integral component of the
architectural design.
   L.   Utilities Screening. Utility meters and related equipment shall be
located only on the side or rear facade of buildings and shall be integrated
into the building architecture through painting or other means.
   M.   Building Security. Components of building security shall be integrated
into the building’s design and be effective but not obtrusive in accordance
with the following standards:
      1.   Security doors shall not encroach into the public right-of-way, in
either an opened or closed position.
      2.   Lighting shall be provided at all entryways to the building and in
any alcoves or other features of the building which impede the ability for
visual surveillance of the building and its public areas.
      3.   Where security grills are required or otherwise provided, they shall
be painted to match the trim colors of the building. Unobtrusive roll-down
grilles with thin vertical and horizontal elements are preferred; heavy steel
and accordion fold grates are discouraged.
      4.   Grilles, security doors, and other security devices designed for
nighttime security shall not be readily visible to the public during business
hours or when they are in an open position. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 203. COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
203.01: Purpose
203.02: Land Use Regulations
203.03: Development Regulations
203.04: Supplemental Regulations
203.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the “Commercial” Districts are to:
   A.   Provide for a full range of commercial uses.
   B.   Strengthen the city’s economic base and provide employment
opportunities for residents of the city.
   C.   Ensure the provision of services and facilities needed to accommodate
planned population densities.
   D.   Identify appropriate standards for new development.
Additional purposes of each “Commercial” District:
   CN Neighborhood Commercial. To encourage convenience and neighborhood
shopping areas providing day-to-day retail goods and services and to prohibit
auto-oriented uses in order to maintain a pedestrian environment. This district
also provides office space for local neighborhoods. The maximum FAR is 0.30.
   CR Retail Centers. To maintain areas for regional shopping centers located
at major circulation intersections. Large format or “big box” retail and auto
sales as well as travel related services, such as hotels and gas stations are
allowed. The maximum FAR is 0.35.
   CG General and Service Commercial. To provide areas for retail and services
uses that meet local and regional demand. Examples of allowable uses include:
equipment rental and repair, commercial print shops, auto sales, storage
facilities, and wholesale businesses, and specialized retail not normally found
in shopping centers. Accessory office uses related to the primary commercial
use are also allowed. The maximum FAR is 0.40.
   CMX Commercial Mixed-Use. To provide areas for either horizontal or vertical
mixed-use development consisting of commercial, service, office, and
residential uses. Buildings more than one story are strongly encouraged. The
maximum FAR is 2.0 and the maximum residential density is 30.0 units per acre.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
203.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
Table 203.02 below prescribes the land use regulations for “Commercial”
Districts. The regulations for each district are established by letter
designations as follows:
   “P” designates permitted uses.
   “C” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
   “M” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Minor Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
   “(#)” numbers in parentheses refer to specific limitations listed at the end
of the table.
   “-” designates uses that are not permitted.
Use classifications are defined in Chapter 701, Use Classifications. In cases
where a specific land use or activity is not defined, the Zoning Administrator
shall assign the land use or activity to a classification that is substantially
similar in character. Use classifications and sub-classifications not listed in
the table or not found to be substantially similar to the uses below are
prohibited. The table also notes additional use regulations that apply to
various uses. Section numbers in the right hand column refer to other sections
of this Chapter.
TABLE 203.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS -
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Use Classifications CN CR CG CMX Additional Regulations
Use Classifications          CN     CR    CG    CMX   Additional Regulations
Residential uses:
 Multi-family residential   -      -     -     P(1)  Section
                                                      201.04
 Family daycare home:       See sub-classifications below
  Small                    -      -     -     P      
                                                      Section
  Large                    -      -     -     P     301.07, Family Daycare
                                                      Home, Large
 Group residential          -      -     -     P(2)   
 Residential care           -      -     -     P      
  facilities, limited
Public and semipublic uses:
                                                      Section
 Clubs and lodges           C      -     P     P     301.02, Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales
 Colleges and trade         -      C     C     C      
  schools, public or private
 Community centers          P      -     -     C      
 Cultural institutions      C      -     C     C      
 Daycare centers            C      -     -     C      
 Instructional services     P      -     P     P      
 Park and recreation        P      -     P     P      
  facilities, public
 Religious facilities       C      C     C     C      
  Residential care                                    Section
 facilities, general        -      -     -     C     301.15, Residential Care
                                                      Facilities, General
                                                      Section
 Social service facilities  -      P     P     C     301.19, Social Service
                                                      Facilities
Commercial uses:
 Animal care, sales and     See sub-classifications below
  services:
  Kennels                  M(4)   -     M(4)  -      
  Pet stores               M(4)   M(4)  P(4)  -      
  Veterinary services,     -      -     P(4)  -      
    small
 Artists studios            P      -     P     P      
 Automobile/vehicle sales   See sub-classifications below
  and services:
  Automobile/vehicle       -      P     P     -      
    rentals
  Automobile/vehicle sales -      C     P     -      
    and leasing
                                                      Section
  Automobile/vehicle       -      -     P     -     301.04, Automobile/
    repair, major                                     Vehicle Service And
                                                      Repair
    Automobile/vehicle                                Section
  service and repair,      -      P     P     -     301.04, Automobile/
    minor                                             Vehicle Service And
                                                      Repair
    Automobile/vehicle                                Section
  washing                  -      C     P     -     301.05, Auto Service
                                                      Stations And Car Washing
    Large vehicle and                                 Section
  equipment sales, service -      -     C     -     301.04, Automobile/
    and rental                                        Vehicle Service And
                                                      Repair
                                                      Section
  Service station          C(3)   C     C     C     301.05, Auto Service
                                                      Stations And Car Washing
                                                      Section
  Towing and impound yards -      -     C(20)      300.03 Fencing ; Section
                                                      300.09 Outdoor storage ;
                                                      300.10 Screening
 Banks and financial        See sub-classifications below
  institutions:
  Banks and credit unions  P(5)   P     P     P      
  Check cashing businesses -      P     P     P      
 Building materials and     -      P(6)  P(6)  -      
  services
 Business services          P(3,7) P     P     P      
 Cannabis dispensary                   P          Municipal Code Chapter
                                                      15, Article VII
 Commercial entertainment   See sub-classifications below
  and recreation:
                                                      Section
  Cinema/theaters          -      P     P     C     301.02, Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales
                                                      Section
  Large scale              -      -     C(8)  -     301.02, Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales
                                                      Section
  Small scale              -      P(19) P(19) C     301.02, Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales
 Eating, drinking, and      See sub-classifications below
  smoking establishments:
                                                      Sections
                                                      300.08, Outdoor Seating ;
  Bars/nightclubs/lounges  -      C     C     C     and
                                                      301.02, Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales
  Coffee shops/cafes       P(5)   P     P     P     Section
                                                      300.08, Outdoor Seating
                                                      Sections
    Restaurants, less than                            300.08, Outdoor Seating ;
  3,000 square feet        P(5)   P     P     P     and
                                                      301.02, Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales
                                                      Sections
    Restaurants, greater                              300.08, Outdoor Seating ;
  than 3,000 square feet   C(5)   P     P     P     and
                                                      301.02, Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales
  Tobacco bars             -      M     M     M      
  Food and beverage retail                            Section
 sales                      P(9)   P     P     P(9)  301.02, Alcoholic
                                                      Beverage Sales
 Funeral parlors and        -      C     P     -      
  mortuaries
 Hotels and motels          -      C     C     C      
 Light fleet based services -      -     P     -      
 Maintenance and repair     P(10)  P(10) P     P(10)  
  services
 Medical facilities:        See sub-classifications below
  Medical clinic           -      P(12) P     P(12)  
  Professional/medical     -      P(12) P     P(12)  
                                                      Section
 Mixed use development                      C     203.04, Supplemental
                                                      Regulations
 Nurseries and garden       -      P     P     P      
  centers
 Offices:                   See sub-classifications below
  General offices          P(11)  P(12) P     P      
  Walk-in clientele        P(13)  P(12) P     P(13)  
 Parking, public or private P(14)  P     P     P(14)  
 Personal services          P      P     P     P      
 Retail sales:              See sub-classifications below
  Less than 50,000 square  P      P     P     P      
    feet
  50,000 square feet or    -      C     C     -      
    more
  Swap meet                -      C     C     -      
 Wholesaling and            -      -     P     -      
  distribution
Industrial uses:
 Construction and material  -      -     C     -     Section
  yards                                               300.09, Outdoor Storage
 Handicraft/custom          -      P(15) P     -      
  manufacturing
 Industry, limited          -      -     P     -      
 Recycling facilities:      See sub-classifications below
    Recycling collection                              Section
  facility                 -      C     P     -     301.14, Recycling
                                                      Facilities
    Recycling processing                              Section
  facility                 -      -     C     -     301.14, Recycling
                                                      Facilities
                                                      Section
  Reverse vending machine  P      P     P     P     301.14, Recycling
                                                      Facilities
 Warehousing and storage:   See sub-classifications below
  Chemical, mineral, and   -      -     C     -      
    explosives storage
  Indoor warehousing and   -      -     P     -      
    storage
                                                      Section
  Personal storage         -      C     P     C     301.13, Personal Storage
                                                      Facilities
Transportation, communication, and utilities uses:
 Communication facilities:  See sub-classifications below
    Antenna and transmission                          Section
  towers, camouflage       P(16)  P(16) P(16) P(16) 301.20, Telecommunica
    facilities                                        tion Facilities
    Antenna and transmission                          Section
  towers, non-camouflage   M(16 ) M(16) M(16) M(16) 301.20, Telecommunica
    facilities                                        tion Facilities
                                                      Section
  Broadcasting facility    -      M     M     -     301.20, Telecommunica
                                                      tion Facilities
  Call center              -      P(3)  P     -      
  Recording studio         -      P(4)  P(4)  -      
 Freight/truck terminals    -      -     C     -      
  and warehouses
 Transportation passenger   -      P     P     -      
  terminals
 Utilities, minor           P      P     P     P      
Agricultural and extractive uses:
 Crop cultivation,          M      M     M     M     Section
  commercial                                          301.06, Crop Cultivation
 Agriculture employee       M      M     M     M      
  housing
Other applicable types:
  Accessory uses and                                  Section
 structures                 P      P     P     P     301.01, Accessory Uses
                                                      And Structures
 Animal keeping             -      -     -     P     Section
                                                      301.03 Animal Keeping
 Caretaker unit             -      P(18) P(18) P(18)  
 Home occupations           -      -     -     P     Section
                                                      301.09, Home Occupations
 Nonconforming use          Article 307, Nonconforming Uses, Structures, And
                             Lots
 Temporary use              Section
                             301.21, Temporary Uses
 
Notes:
   Specific Limitations:
   (1)   Multi-family residential is permitted in conjunction with allowable
nonresidential uses.
   (2)   Limited to no more than 2 rooms in a dwelling rented to not more than
a total of 4 persons and meals are not provided to more than 4 boarders.
   (3)   Limited to establishments with a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet
or less.
   (4)   Provided that such use shall be completely enclosed in a building of
soundproof construction.
   (5)   Drive-through facilities are prohibited.
   (6)   Bulk storage of sand, gravel or cement is not allowed.
   (7)   Wholesale services are not allowed.
   (8)   Campgrounds are prohibited.
   (9)   Limited to establishments with a gross floor area less than 50,000
square feet.
   (10)   Outdoor work and outdoor storage is prohibited.
   (11)   General offices shall not be located on the ground floor.
   (12)   Minor conditional use permit approval is required for office,
business, or professional uses greater than 5,000 square feet in size per lot
or integrated commercial development.
   (13)   Limited to establishments with a gross floor area less than 1,500
square feet.
   (14)   Limited to parking areas for exclusive use of occupants, employees
and patrons of the uses, buildings, stores, and businesses located in that
zone.
   (15)   Limited to establishments with a gross floor area less than 2,000
square feet.
   (16)   Prohibited within 300 feet of any R district except as detailed in
301.20E.
   (17)   Limited to radio or television studios.
   (18)   Limited to 1 dwelling for a caretaker or watchman and his immediate
family, necessary and incidental to a use located in such zone. Such dwellings
shall be a permanent structure.
   (19)   Minor conditional use permit approval is required for indoor shooting
ranges.
   (20)   Salvage and wrecking yards are not permitted. Caretaker units are
only permitted when explicitly addressed in the CUP.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1868, 2-4-2020; Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025; Ord.
1911, 6-3-2025)
203.03: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Table 203.03 prescribes the development standards for the Commercial Districts;
supplemental standards are addressed below
Table 203.03. Additional regulations are denoted in the right hand column.
Section numbers in this column refer to other sections of this Chapter, while
individual letters refer to subsections that directly follow the table.
TABLE 203.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS - COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
Standard CN CR CG CMX Additional Standards
Standard     CN    CR    CG    CMX   Additional Standards
Lot and density standards:
Minimum lot
area (sq.    6,000 5,000 5,000 5,000  
ft.)
Minimum lot  60    60    60    60     
width (ft.)
Minimum lot  75    75    75    75     
depth (ft.)
Maximum
density      n/a   n/a   n/a   30.0  Subsection
(units/net                           203.04B, “Mixed Use Standards”
acre)
Minimum area
per unit     n/a   n/a   n/a   800    
(sq. ft.)
Building form and location:
Maximum      35    50    50    50    Section
height (ft.)                         300.06, “Heights And Height Exceptions”
Minimum                          Section
yards (ft.):                         300.16, “Visibility At Driveways And Intersections (Sight Distance)”
             5
Front        min., 5     5     5     Section
             10                      300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
             max.
Interior                             Section
side         0     0     0     0     203.03B; and section
                                     300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
             5
Street side  min., 5     5     5     Section
             10                      300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
             max.
                                     Section
Rear         0     0     0     0     203.03B; and section
                                     300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Transitional 5
- street     min., 15    15    15    Section
side         15                      203.03B, “Transitional Standards”
             max.
Maximum
floor area   0.30  0.50  0.50  2.0    
ratio
Percent of
building at
setback or   70    n/a   n/a   n/a    
property
line
Additional standards:
Usable open
space (sq.   n/a   n/a   n/a   150   Section
ft. per                              203.04B, “Mixed Use Standards”
unit)
 
Notes:
   Additional Development Standards:
   (a)   Articulated Facades. Buildings shall provide adequate architectural
articulation and detail to avoid a bulky and “box-like” appearance. The
building facade shall be articulated with measures such as, indentation in
plane, change of materials in a complimentary manner, sensitive composition and
juxtaposition of openings and solid wall and/or building frame, and projecting
elements, such as awnings or marquees, to provide shade and shelter. Strip
malls are prohibited.
   (b)   Transitional Standards. Where a site is adjacent to an R district, the
following standards apply:
      (1)   Buildings exceeding twenty (20) feet in height must be set back
five (5) feet from the interior side and rear property line; for buildings
exceeding twenty-five (25) feet in height shall be stepped back one (1)
additional foot for every foot of height above twenty-five (25) feet.
      (2)   The maximum height within forty (40) feet of an R district boundary
is thirty-five (35) feet. The maximum height within fifty (50) feet of an R
district boundary is forty (40) feet.
FIGURE 203.03(b)(2): COMMERCIAL DISTRICT TRANSITIONAL STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3690.png]
 
   (c)   Exceptions to Minimum Lot Size, Width, and Depth. An exception to the
minimum lot size, width and depth may be allowed with a Conditional Use Permit
if a master plan for the site is submitted concurrently with the subdivision
application. The plan shall indicate proposed land uses, building footprints,
driveways, fire lanes, parking areas, landscaped areas, buffer yards, and other
site features. The City Council must find that the proposed subdivision will
create lots that are adequately sized, shaped, and oriented to meet or exceed
all requirements for yards, buffer yards, parking, landscaping, fire lanes, and
other requirements of this Chapter.
   (d)   Increased Yard for Certain Institutional Uses. Any building erected or
used for a school, government, or other institutional use mentioned elsewhere
in this Chapter, shall be located at least fifteen (15) feet from an R
district, notwithstanding any lesser requirement in the district where located,
provided such building shall not be required to be located more than five (5)
feet from any lot line adjacent to any alley. The City Council may waive this
requirement for accessory buildings to provide reasonable accommodation.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
203.04: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Pedestrian Orientation. Pedestrian oriented design shall be provided in
the CN and CMX districts according to the following standards:
      1.   Pedestrian-Oriented Design. The following design elements at ground
floor street frontage level shall be incorporated into the design of the
structure in order to provide pedestrian orientation.
         a.   Ground-Floor Windows. Exterior walls facing an adjacent public
street, or facing onto a park, plaza, or other public outdoor space shall
include windows, doors, or other openings for at least fifty (50) percent of
the building wall area located between two and one-half (2.5) and seven (7)
feet above the elevation of the sidewalk. No wall my run in a continuous plane
for more than twenty (20) feet without an opening. Openings fulfilling this
requirement shall have transparent glazing and provide views into work areas,
display areas, sales areas, lobbies, or similar active spaces, or into window
displays that are at least three (3) feet deep.
         b.   Entrances. All ground floor tenant spaces with at least twenty-
five (25) feet of frontage facing a public or private street shall have at
least one building entrance oriented to the adjacent street. Such an entrance
shall open directly to the outside and shall not require a pedestrian to first
pass through a garage, parking lot or loading area to gain access.
         c.   Signage. Signage shall be integrated with the design of the
building and oriented and scaled to the pedestrian.
         d.   Other Pedestrian-Oriented Design Elements. Other pedestrian-
oriented design elements such as street furniture or other seating surfaces on
private property and other design amenities scaled to the pedestrian such as
awnings, drinking fountains, arcades, colonnades, plazas, non-commercial
community bulletin boards, public or private art, and alternative paving
materials shall be provided in areas of pedestrian access. Compliance may also
be demonstrated by pedestrian-oriented design elements that are provided off-
site.
FIGURE 203.04A1: PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED DESIGN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3692.png]
 
      2.   Pedestrian Access. On-site pedestrian circulation and access shall
be provided according to the following standards.
         a.   Internal Connections. A system of pedestrian walkways shall
connect all buildings on a site to each other, to on-site automobile and
bicycle parking areas, and to any on-site open space areas or pedestrian
amenities.
         b.   To Street Network. An on-site walkway shall connect the primary
building entry or entries to a public sidewalk on each street frontage. Such
walkway shall be the shortest practical distance between the main entry and
sidewalk.
         c.   To Neighbors. Direct and convenient access shall be provided from
commercial and mixed-use projects to adjoining neighborhood residential and
commercial streets. These connections shall remain accessible at all times, and
not be gated.
         d.   Pedestrian Walkway Design:
            (1)   Walkways shall be a minimum of five (5) feet wide and shall
be paved with concrete, stone, tile, brick, or comparable material.
            (2)   Fifteen (15) gallon shade trees shall be planted along
walkways at least thirty (30) feet on center.
            (3)   Walkways shall be illuminated with an intensity of at least
0.25 foot-candles at the ground level during the hours of darkness.
            (4)   Primary pedestrian routes and access points shall be clearly
differentiated from driveways, parking aisles, and parking and loading spaces
through the use of elevation changes, a different paving material, or similar
method.
            (5)   Where a required walkway is parallel and adjacent to an auto
travel lane, it shall be raised or separated from the auto travel lane by a
raised curb at least four (4) inches high, bollards, or other physical barrier.
FIGURE 203.04A2 : PEDESTRIAN ACCESS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3694.png]
 
      3.   Driveway Restrictions; Location of Parking:
         a.   Access. Access shall be provided from a side street or alley
wherever possible. Access shall not be provided from a residential street where
alternate access is available.
         b.   Location of Parking. Parking areas shall be located at the rear
of the site or at the side of the building, except for drop-off areas which may
be located at the primary entry.
FIGURE 203.04A3b: LOCATION OF PARKING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3696.png]
 
   B.    Mixed Use Standards. In the CMX district, residential uses may be
permitted if all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   Location of Residential Units. Residential units are permitted at
the side, rear and/or above the commercial uses.
      2.   Residential Building Entry and Orientation Requirements:
         a.   Entrances to residential units shall be physically separated from
the entrance to the permitted commercial uses and clearly marked with a
physical feature incorporated into the building or an appropriately scaled
element applied to the facade.
         b.   Garages or other enclosed or covered parking facilities for use
by residents shall not be significantly visible feature from the public street
or from adjacent bikeways, sidewalks or other pedestrian amenities. Residential
parking shall be clearly signed and reserved for the residents.
      3.   Usable Open Space. A minimum of one hundred fifty (150) square feet
of usable open space is required per residential unit and may be provided as
common or private open space on balconies or patios.
      4.   Side and Rear Yard Setback Requirements for Residential Units. In
order to provide light and air for residential units in mixed-use buildings,
the following minimum setbacks apply for any interior side or rear yard. In any
case in which an interior yard is also adjacent to an R district boundary, the
greater of the following setbacks shall apply.
         a.   Five (5) feet for any wall with windows.
         b.   Ten (10) feet for any wall with bedroom or kitchen windows.
         c.   Fifteen (15) feet for any wall with living room or other primary
windows.
FIGURE 203.04B4: SIDE AND REAR YARD SETBACK
REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL UNITS IN CMX DISTRICT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3698.png]
 
   C.   Commercial Centers. Commercial centers containing four (4) or more
establishments in the Commercial Use classification are subject to the
following standards and criteria for approval.
      1.   Standards:
         a.   Entry Plazas/Passenger Loading Areas. A plaza shall be provided
at the entry to each anchor tenant that provides for pedestrian circulation and
loading and unloading.
         b.   Pedestrian Walkways. A system of pedestrian walkways at least
five (5) feet wide and paved with concrete, stone, tile, brick, or comparable
material shall connect all buildings on a site to each other, to on-site
automobile and bicycle parking areas, to any on-site open space areas and to
transit stops. Sidewalk “bulb-outs” or bus “pullouts” may be required at
potential bus stops serving large-scale commercial development to provide
adequate waiting areas for transit users and safety for passing motorists.
         c.   Parking Setback from Buildings. Parking areas must be separated
from the front and side exterior walls of on-site buildings by walkways at
least five (5) feet in width, as well as a planter areas at least five (5) feet
in width, two (2) feet of which shall be low growing plants to allow for
vehicle overhang.
FIGURE 203.04C1c: PARKING SETBACK FROM BUILDINGS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3700.png]
 
         d.   Location of Loading and Service Areas. Loading docks may only be
located to the side and rear of buildings and shall be screened from view from
adjacent public streets. Loading and service areas shall be located a minimum
distance of fifty (50) feet from any residential district.
FIGURE 203.04C1d: LOCATION OF LOADING AND SERVICE AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3702.png]
 
         e.   Open Space. Outdoor space for the use of customers and visitors
shall be provided on any commercial center site with fifty thousand (50,000)
square feet or more of floor area.
            (1)   Minimum Area. Public space shall be provided at a rate of
five (5) square feet per one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor area, up to
fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
            (2)   Location. Such public space shall be visible from a public
street, or from on-site areas normally frequented by customers, and shall be
accessible during business hours. Areas within required setbacks may count
toward the public space requirement. Areas designated for customers to wait for
cabs may be combined with required public space areas if they meet all other
requirements of this subsection.
            (3)   Amenities. On-site public space shall include benches or
other seating, and the ground surface shall be landscaped or surfaced with
high-quality paving materials. Amenities shall be included that enhance the
comfort, aesthetics, or usability of the space, including but not limited to
trees and other landscaping, shade structures, drinking fountains, water
features, public art, or performance areas.
      2.   Design Criteria. In order to receive permit approval for a
commercial center, the review authority shall find that all of the following
criteria have been met.
         a.   Integrated Theme. Buildings and structures will exhibit an
integrated architectural theme that includes similar or complementary
materials, colors, and design details.
         b.   Site Entrance. Community-scale commercial developments (10 acres
or larger) are developed with at least one (1) major driveway entrance feature
that provides an organizing element to the site design. Major driveway
entrances include such features as a landscaped entry corridor or a divided
median drive separated by a landscaped center dividing island.
         c.   Building Entrances. Building entrances to anchor tenants and
other large stores are prominent and inviting. The architectural details of
building entrances are integrated with the overall building design in terms of
materials, scale, proportion, and design elements.
         d.   Four-Sided Architecture. Buildings include a complementary level
of design detail on all facades.
         e.   Pad Developments. Freestanding pad developments, if included in
the development, are integrated into the site design in terms of parking lot
layout, on-site vehicular and pedestrian circulation routes, landscaping, and
building design. Internal cross access is provided between pad developments and
the surrounding commercial center. Building scale, materials, colors, and
design details are complementary to the surrounding center.
         f.   Drive-Through Facilities. Drive-through lanes for restaurants,
banks, pharmacies, and other uses, where included, are integrated with the
overall site layout in such a way as to provide safe, efficient vehicular and
pedestrian circulation. Adequate vehicular stacking or queuing spaces are
provided to avoid waiting vehicles from blocking drive aisles. Drive-through
facilities are located to as to minimize the visual impact from the right-of-
way and to provide adequate screening from internal uses.
         g.   Vehicular Circulation. Safe, convenient vehicular circulation
will be provided within the development through an appropriate system of
internal vehicular circulation routes based on a hierarchy of drive aisles and
cross routes. Vehicular and pedestrian conflicts will be minimized. Where
pedestrian circulation routes cross vehicular traffic aisles and driveways
within a development, there are clearly delineated crosswalks that include
clear sight lines, adequate warning signage for both vehicles and pedestrians,
adequate lighting, and protective barrier posts or similar features for
separation at walkway entrances.
         h.   Pedestrian Safety and Amenities. Safe and convenient pedestrian
access will be provided through a continuous system of walkways that connects
on-site buildings to one another, to automobile and bicycle parking areas, to
any on-site open space areas or pedestrian amenities, and to the adjacent
public right-of-way. Pedestrian facilities will create an attractive, quality
environment with integrated landscaping, shading, lighting, surface treatment,
and other amenities.
         i.   Bicycle Parking. Adequate, safe, and convenient bicycle parking
facilities are provided. Short-term bicycle parking spaces for the use of
customers and visitors are located close to building entrances, easily
identifiable, visible to those passing by and separate from pedestrian
circulation areas. Long-term bicycle parking for the use of employees will
provide a high degree of security and safety through the use of bicycle
lockers, designated areas within buildings, or outside areas with constant
visual monitoring.
         j.   Entry Plazas. Entry plazas and passenger loading areas, where
required, include unique, decorative paving materials, adequate seating areas,
provision of adequate shade from the summer sun, and attractive landscaping
including trees or raised planters.
         k.   Transit Facilities. Transit facilities, where included, are
developed with effective shading from the summer sun, comfortable seating,
attractive landscaping, decorative paving, public art features and efficient
pedestrian routes to adjacent development.
         l.   Lighting. A combination of attractively designed and located
lighting fixtures, including low pole lights, ground-mounted fixtures, light
bollards, and architectural lighting is used to provide interesting
compositions for outdoor lighting, as well as a safe, secure environment.
         m.   Shade Areas. Pedestrian areas, such as walkways, building
entrances, and gathering areas, are adequately shaded from the summer sun
through such techniques as the careful placement of trees and landscaping,
trellis structures, projecting canopies, covered walkways, arcades, porticos,
building orientation, and similar techniques. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 204. EMPLOYMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
204.01: Purpose
204.02: Land Use Regulations
204.03: Development Regulations
204.04: Supplemental Regulations
204.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the "Employment" Districts are to:
   A.   Provide appropriate areas of the city where employment uses can locate
and operate without significant conflicts with other land uses.
   B.   Strengthen the city's economic base and provide employment
opportunities for residents of the city.
   C.   Ensure the provision of services and facilities needed to accommodate
planned population densities.
Additional purposes of each "Employment" District:
   PO Professional Office. To allow for areas of office complex development,
including professional and medical offices, personal services, as well as
research and development activities, small restaurants, support services, and
convenience retail. The maximum FAR is 0.50.
   IP Industrial Park. To provide areas for a mix of light industrial,
secondary office, bulk retail, and service uses. This district allows for uses
such as, warehouse, personal storage (mini-storage), distribution centers,
research and development, wholesale, and office space with limited customer
access. This district also allows for other uses, such as commercial
recreation, small-scale retail, and service uses serving local employees and
visitors are permitted as secondary uses. The maximum FAR is 0.40.
   IG General Industrial. To provide areas for businesses that have potential
to create adverse visual, noise, or other impacts to adjoining public and
residential properties. This district allows for uses such as, warehousing,
manufacturing, food processing, distribution, with support commercial services
and ancillary office space. No retail uses are allowed. The maximum FAR is
0.60.
   IA Airport Industrial. To provide areas for the Municipal Air-port and for
related businesses that have the potential to create adverse visual, noise, or
other impacts to adjoining public and residential properties. Small-scale
retail and service uses serving local employees and visitors are permitted as
secondary uses. This designation allows for a maximum FAR of 0.60. (Ord. 1866,
11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1901, 6-20-2023)
204.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
Table 204.02 below prescribes the land use regulations for “Employment”
Districts. The regulations for each district are established by letter
designations as follows:
   “P” designates permitted uses.
   “C” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
   “M” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Minor Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
    “(#)” numbers in parentheses refer to specific limitations listed at the
end of the table.
   “-” designates uses that are not permitted.
Use classifications are defined in Chapter 701, Use Classifications. In cases
where a specific land use or activity is not defined, the Zoning Administrator
shall assign the land use or activity to a classification that is substantially
similar in character. Use classifications and sub-classifications not listed in
the table or not found to be substantially similar to the uses below are
prohibited. The table also notes additional use regulations that apply to
various uses. Section numbers in the right hand column refer to other sections
of this Chapter.
   TABLE 204.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS - EMPLOYMENT DISTRICTS
Use Classification PO IP IG IA Additional Regulations
Use Classification             PO    IP   IG   IA   Additional Regulations
Public and semi-public uses:
 Colleges and trade schools,  C     P    -    -     
  public or private
 Correctional facility        -     P    P    -     
 Cultural institutions        P     -    -    -     
 Day care centers             P     P(1) -    -     
 Elderly and long-term care   P     -    -    -     
 Instructional services       P     P    -    P     
  Residential care facilities,                      Section
 general                      C     -    -    -    301.15 , "Residential Care
                                                    Facilities, General"
 Schools, public or private   P     -    -    -     
Commercial uses:
 Aircraft sales, services,    -     -    -    P     
  and storage
 Animal care, sales and       See sub-classifications below
  services:
  Kennels                    -     M    M    -     
  Veterinary services        -     P    P    -     
 Automobile/vehicle sales and See sub-classifications below
  services:
    Automobile/vehicle service                      Section
  and repair, major          -     P    P    -    301.04 , "Automobile/
                                                    Vehicle Service And Repair"
    Automobile/vehicle service                      Section
  and repair, minor          -     P    P    -    301.04 . "Automobile/
                                                    Vehicle Service And Repair"
                                                    Section
  Automobile/vehicle washing -     P    P    -    301.05 , "Auto Service
                                                    Stations And Car Washing"
    Large vehicle and
  equipment sales, service,  -     C    P    -     
    and rental
                                                    Section
  Service station            -     C    C    -    301.05 , "Auto Service
                                                    Stations And Car Washing"
  Towing and impound         -     C    P    -    Section
                                                    300.09 . "Outdoor Storage"
 Banks and financial          See sub-classifications below
  institutions:
  Banks and credit unions    P     P(1) P(1) P(1)  
  Check cashing businesses   P     -    -    -     
 Building materials and       -     P    P    -     
  services
 Business services            P     P(1) P(1) -     
 Cannabis dispensary          -     -    -    P    Municipal Code chapter 15,
                                                    article VII
 Commercial entertainment and See sub-classifications below
  recreation:
                                                    Section
  Large-scale                -     C    C    C    301.02 . "Alcoholic
                                                    Beverage Sales"
                                                    Section
  Small scale                -     C    -    -    301.02 . "Alcoholic
                                                    Beverage Sales"
 Eating, drinking, and        See sub-classifications below
  smoking establishments:
  Coffee shops/cafes         P(2)  P(1) P(1) P    Section
                                                    300.08 , "Outdoor Seating"
                                                    Sections
                                                    300.08 , "Outdoor Seating";
  Restaurants                P(2)  P(1) P(1) P    and
                                                    301.02 , "Alcoholic
                                                    Beverage Sales"
  Food and beverage retail                          Section
 sales                        P(2)  P(1) P(1) -    301.02 , "Alcoholic
                                                    Beverage Sales"
 Funeral parlors and          -     P    P    -     
  mortuaries
 Hotels and motels            -     C    C    -     
 Bed and breakfasts           P(10) -    -    -     
 Light fleet based services   -     P    P    -     
 Maintenance and repair       -     P    P    -     
  services
 Medical facilities:          See sub-classifications below
  Hospital                   P     -    -    -     
  Medical clinic             P     -    -    -     
  Professional/medical       P     -    -    -     
 Offices:                     See sub-classifications below
  General offices            P     P    P    P     
  Walk-in clientele          P     -    -    -     
 Parking, public or private   P(3)  P    P    -     
 Personal services            P(2)  P(1) -    -     
 Retail sales                 P(2)  P(2) P(2) -     
 Salvage and wrecking:        -     C    C    C    Section
                                                    300.09 . "Outdoor Storage"
  Salvage and wrecking                              Section
 conducted wholly within a    -     P    P    P    300.09 . "Outdoor Storage"
  building
                                                    Section
 Sexually oriented business   -     P    P    -    301.17 , "Sexually Oriented
                                                    Businesses"
 Wholesaling and distribution -     P    P    P     
Industrial uses:                                     
 Construction and material    -     P    P    -    Section
  yards                                             300.09 , "Outdoor Storage"
 Handicraft/custom            -     P    P    P     
  manufacturing
 Industry, general:           -     P    P    P     
  Alcohol manufacture        -     C(4) C    -     
  Hazardous waste management -     C(6) C    -     
    facilities
    Manufacture, processing,
    or treatment of materials
  which may be obnoxious,          -    C          
    offensive or hazardous to
    health and safety of
    persons and property
 Industry, limited            -     P    P    P     
  Recycling facilities:      See sub-classifications below
    Recycling collection                            Section
  facility                   -     -    P    -    301.14 . "Recycling
                                                    Facilities"
    Recycling processing                            Section
  facility                   -     -    P    -    301.14 . "Recycling
                                                    Facilities"
 Warehousing and storage:     See sub-classifications below
  Chemical, mineral, and     -     C    C    C     
    explosives storage
  Indoor warehousing and     -     P    P    P     
    storage
                                                    Section
  Personal storage           -     P    P    P    301.13 , "Personal Storage
                                                    Facilities"
Transportation, communication, and utilities uses:
 Communication facilities:    See sub-classifications below
    Antenna and transmission                        Section
  towers, camouflage         P(7)  P(7) P(7) P(7) 301.20 . "Telecommunication
    facilities                                      Facilities"
    Antenna and transmission                        Section
  towers, non-camouflage     M(7)  M(7) M(7) M(7) 301.20 . "Telecommunication
    facilities                                      Facilities"
                                                    Section
 Broadcasting facility        -     P    P    P    301.20 , "Telecommunic
                                                    ation Facilities"
 Call center                  P(2)  P    P    -     
 Freight/truck terminals and  -     P    P    P     
  warehouses
 Heliports                    -     C    C    C     
 Transportation passenger     -     P    P    P     
  terminals
 Utilities, major:            -     P    P    P     
  Renewable energy facility        C    C    C     
  Solid waste collection,    -     -    P    C     
    treatment, and disposal
 Utilities, minor             P     P    P    P     
AGRICULTURAL AND EXTRACTIVE USES:
 Crop cultivation, commercial M     P    P    M    Section
                                                    301.06 , "Crop Cultivation"
 Crop cultivation, non-       -     P    P    -     
  commercial
 Mining and quarrying         -     -    C(6) -     
 Agricultural employee        M     P    P    M     
  housing
   Other applicable types:
  Accessory uses and                                Section
 structures                   P     P    P    P    301.01 , "Accessory Uses
                                                    And Structures"
 Additional uses              -     -    -    P(9)  
 Caretaker unit               -     P(8) P(8) -     
 Nonconforming use            Chapter 307, "Nonconforming Uses, Structures,
                               And Lots"
 Temporary use                Section
                               301.21 , "Temporary Uses"
 
Notes:
   Specific Limitations:
   (1)   Permitted only as an accessory use that supports industrial uses,
business and office parks, and corporate offices.
   (2)   Permitted only as an accessory to a primary office and limited to
establishments with a gross floor area less than 5,000 square feet in size.
   (3)   Limited to parking areas for exclusive use of occupants, employees and
patrons of the uses, buildings, stores, and businesses located in that zone.
   (4)   Alcohol manufacture must be located more than 500 feet from the
nearest residential, or commercial zoning designation as shown on the Official
Zoning Map.
   (5)   On-site hazardous waste management facilities must be accessory and
incidental to a primary use.
   (6)   In areas designated as Mineral Resource Zones in the General Plan
   (7)   Prohibited within 300 feet of any R district except as detailed in
301,20E.
   (8)   For agricultural employees, when located on farms or ranches
containing more than 10 acres. Such dwellings shall be a permanent structure.
   (9)   Additional uses may be allowed with City Council approval of a
Conditional Use Permit.
   (10)   Limited to no more than two rooms in a dwelling rented to not more
than four persons. Meals may not be provided to more than four boarders.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1901, 6-20-2023; Ord. 1907, 10-15-2024; Ord.
1909, 1-21-2025)
204.03: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Table 204.03 prescribes the development standards for the Employment Districts.
Additional regulations are denoted in the right hand column. Section numbers in
this column refer to other sections of this Chapter, while individual letters
refer to subsections that directly follow the table.
TABLE 204.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS -
EMPLOYMENT DISTRICTS
Standard PO IP IG IA Additional Standards
Standard     PO    IP      IG         IA      Additional Standards
Lot and density standards:
Minimum lot                                   Section
area (sq.    6,000 20,000  10,000     10,000  204.03(a)
ft.)
Minimum lot  60    100     100        100     Section
width (ft.)                                   204.03(a)
Minimum lot  75    100     75         75      Section
depth (ft.)                                   204.03(a)
Building form and location:
Maximum                                       Section
height (ft.) 50    75      75         35      204.03(b); section
                                              300.06, “Heights And Height Exceptions”; Chapter 500, “Airport Environs
Minimum                                    
yards (ft.):
                   25; 30  0; 30 on   20; 30  Section
Front        10    on      arterial,  on      300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
                   highway collector, highway Personal Storage Facility: 15-foot setback on Arterial or Collector.
                           or highway
Interior                                      Section
side         5     0       0          10      204.03(c); and section
                                              300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
                   25; 30  0; 30 on   10; 30  Section
Street side  5 (b) on      arterial,  on      204.03(d); and section
                   highway collector, highway 300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
                           or highway         Personal Storage Facility: 15-foot setback on Arterial or Collector.
                                              Section
Rear         0     10      0          10      204.03(b) and (c); and section
                                              300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Transitional                                  Section
- street     15    15      15         15      204.03(b), “Transitional Standards”
side
Maximum
floor area   0.50  0.40    0.60       0.60     
ratio
 
Notes:
   Additional Development Standards:
   (a)   Exceptions to Minimum Lot Size, Width, and Depth. An exception to the
minimum lot size, width, and depth may be allowed with a Conditional Use Permit
if a master plan for the site is submitted concurrently with the subdivision
application. The plan shall indicate proposed land uses, building footprints,
driveways, fire lanes, parking areas, landscaped areas, buffer yards, and other
site features. The City Council must find that the proposed subdivision will
create lots that are adequately sized, shaped, and oriented to meet or exceed
all requirements for yards, buffer yards, parking, landscaping, fire lanes, and
other requirements of this Chapter.
   (b)   Transitional Standards. Where a site is adjacent to an R district, the
following standards apply:
      (1)   Buildings exceeding twenty (20) feet in height must be set back
five (5) feet from the interior side and rear property line; for buildings
exceeding twenty-five (25) feet in height shall be stepped back one (1)
additional foot for every foot of height above twenty-five (25) feet.
      (2)   The maximum height within forty (40) feet of an R district boundary
is thirty-five (35) feet. The maximum height within fifty (50) feet of an R
district boundary is forty (40) feet.
FIGURE 204.03.(b)(2): EMPLOYMENT DISTRICT TRANSITIONAL STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3712.png]
 
   (c)   Increased Yard for Certain Institutional Uses. Any building erected or
used for a school, government, or other institutional use mentioned elsewhere
in this Chapter, shall be located at least fifteen (15) feet from an R
district, notwithstanding any lesser requirement in the district where located,
provided such building shall not be required to be located more than five (5)
feet from any lot line adjacent to any alley. The City Council may waive this
requirement for accessory buildings to provide reasonable accommodation.
   (d)   Street Side Yard - Reversed Corner Lots. Reversed corner lots shall
have a minimum street side yard width of twelve (12) feet or the required front
yard requirement of the lot in the rear (key lot), whichever is less. No
accessory structure shall project beyond the extension of the required front
yard line of the lot in the rear (key lot).
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1907, 10-15-2024)
204.04: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Setbacks and Screening Requirements:
      1.   Setback and Screening from Highways. Any site that is fully or
partially located within two hundred (200) feet of State Route 65 or State
Route 190 shall provide a landscaped area at least thirty (30) feet deep
between the highway right-of-way and any building or parking area for the
length of the site frontage facing toward the highway. At least two fifteen
(15) gallon trees shall be provided for every twenty-five (25) feet of site
frontage toward the highway. The Zoning Administrator may approve a
modification to this standard where existing development patterns make it
infeasible to provide a landscaped area thirty (30) feet deep.
      2.   Parking Setback and Screening from Public Right-of-Way. The
following requirements apply on all street frontages in the PO district. In the
IP and IG districts, they apply only to frontages on arterial or collector
streets.
         a.   Landscaped Setback of Parking from Right-of-Way. Any parking area
located between a building and right-of-way must be set back a minimum of
seventeen (17) feet from the street-facing lot line, and the setback area must
be landscaped. Two (2) feet of the landscaped setback shall be low growing
plants to allow for vehicle overhang.
         b.   Screening of Parking Areas. Any parking area located between a
building and right of way, or within fifty (50) feet of and visible from a
right-of-way, must be screened by a wall or berm at least two and one-half
(2.5) feet high. A screening wall meeting this requirement shall be composed of
brick, stone, stucco, or other quality durable material approved by the Zoning
Administrator, and shall include a decorative cap or top finish as well as edge
detail at wall ends. Plain concrete blocks are not allowed as a screening wall
material unless capped and finished with stucco or other material approved by
the Zoning Administrator.
   3.   Landscaped Setback of Parking from On-Site Buildings. In the PO
district, parking spaces must be set back at least twelve (12) feet from any
building wall, and the area between parking and building must be landscaped.
Two (2) feet of the landscaped setback shall be low growing plants to allow for
vehicle overhang. Up to five (5) feet of this required landscape area may be
occupied by a paved pedestrian walkway.
FIGURE 204.04A: PARKING SETBACKS AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3714.png]
 
   B.   Pedestrian Orientation. Pedestrian oriented design shall be provided in
the PO district according to the following standards:
      1.   Pedestrian-Oriented Design. The following design elements at ground
floor street frontage level shall be incorporated into the design of the
structure in order to provide pedestrian orientation.
         a.   Articulated Facades. Buildings shall provide adequate
architectural articulation and detail to avoid a bulky and “box-like”
appearance. The building facade at ground floor street frontage level shall be
articulated with measures such as, indentation in plane, change of materials in
a complimentary manner, sensitive composition and juxtaposition of openings and
solid wall and/or building frame, and projecting elements, such as awnings or
marquees, to provide shade and shelter.
         b.   Entrances. All ground floor tenant spaces with at least twenty-
five (25) feet of frontage facing a public or private street shall have at
least one building entrance oriented to the adjacent street. Such an entrance
shall open directly to the outside and shall not require a pedestrian to first
pass through a garage, parking lot or loading area to gain access.
         c.   Signage. Signage shall be integrated with the design of the
building and oriented and scaled to the pedestrian, where applicable.
         d.   Other Pedestrian-Oriented Design Elements. Other pedestrian-
oriented design elements such as street furniture or other seating surfaces on
private property and other design amenities scaled to the pedestrian such as
awnings, drinking fountains, arcades, colonnades, plazas, non-commercial
community bulletin boards, public or private art, and alternative paving
materials may be provided in areas of pedestrian access. Compliance may also be
demonstrated by pedestrian-oriented design elements that are provided off-site.
      2.   Pedestrian Access. On-site pedestrian circulation and access shall
be provided according to the following standards.
         a.   Internal Connections. A system of pedestrian walkways shall
connect all buildings on a site to each other, to on-site automobile and
bicycle parking areas, and to any on-site open space areas or pedestrian
amenities.
         b.   To Street Network. An on-site walkway shall connect the primary
building entry or entries to a public sidewalk on each street frontage. Such
walkway shall be the shortest practical distance between the main entry and
sidewalk.
         c.   To Neighbors. Direct and convenient access shall be provided from
commercial and mixed-use projects to adjoining neighborhood residential and
commercial streets. These connections shall remain accessible at all times, and
not be gated.
         d.   Pedestrian Walkway Design:
            (1)   Walkways shall be a minimum of five (5) feet wide and shall
be paved with concrete, stone, tile, brick, or comparable material.
            (2)   Fifteen gallon shade trees shall be planted along walkways at
least thirty (30) feet on center.
            (3)   Walkways shall be illuminated with an intensity of at least
0.25 foot-candles at the ground level during the hours of darkness.
            (4)   Primary pedestrian routes and access points shall be clearly
differentiated from driveways, parking aisles, and parking and loading spaces
through the use of elevation changes, a different paving material, or similar
method.
            Where a required walkway is parallel and adjacent to an auto travel
lane, it shall be raised or separated from the auto travel lane by a raised
curb at least four (4) inches high, bollards, or other physical barrier.
      4.   Driveway Restrictions; Location of Parking:
         a.   Access. Access shall be provided from a side street or alley
wherever possible. Access shall not be provided from a residential street where
alternate access is available.
         b.   Location of Parking. Parking areas shall be located at the rear
of the site or at the side of the building, except for drop-off areas which may
be located at the primary entry.
FIGURE 204.04B3b: LOCATION OF PARKING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3716.png]
 
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 205. PUBLIC AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
205.01: Purpose
205.02: Land Use Regulations
205.03: Development Regulations
205.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the “Public and Open Space” Districts are to:
   A.   Provide areas for educational facilities, cultural and institutional
uses, health services, parks and recreation, general government operations,
airports, utility and public service needs, and other similar and related
supporting uses.
   B.   Ensure the provision of services and facilities needed to accommodate
planned population densities, employment intensities, and traffic regulation.
Additional purposes of each “Public and Open Space” District:
   PS Public and Semi-Public. To provide areas for needed public facilities,
including, but not limited to, recycling centers, sewage treatment ponds,
police and fire stations, and schools, colleges, vocational training
facilities, school administrative offices, fairgrounds, and similar facilities.
This designation is intended for lands owned by public entities, including City
Hall, County buildings, and the hospital. This designation allows for a maximum
FAR of 0.25.
   REC Commercial Recreation. To provide areas for private commercial
recreation uses where patron usually pay to participate. Allowable uses include
campgrounds, off-road vehicle complexes, and other recreation areas that are
privately owned and where patrons usually pay to participate. The maximum FAR
is 0.10.
   PK Parks and Public Recreation Facilities. To maintain areas for public
parks and recreation sites and facilities on city owned properties. The maximum
FAR is 0.10. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
205.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
Table 205.02 below prescribes the land use regulations for “Public and Open
Space” Districts. The regulations for each district are established by letter
designations as follows:
   “P” designates permitted uses.
   “C” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
    “M” designates use classifications that are permitted after review and
approval of a Minor Conditional Use Permit by the City Council.
    “(#)” numbers in parentheses refer to specific limitations listed at the
end of the table.
   “-” designates uses that are not permitted.
Use classifications are defined in Chapter 701, Use Classifications. In cases
where a specific land use or activity is not defined, the Zoning Administrator
shall assign the land use or activity to a classification that is substantially
similar in character. Use classifications and sub-classifications not listed in
the table or not found to be substantially similar to the uses below are
prohibited. The table also notes additional use regulations that apply to
various uses. Section numbers in the right hand column refer to other sections
of this Chapter.
TABLE 205.02: LAND USE REGULATIONS - PUBLIC AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICTS
Use Classification PS REC PK Additional Regulations
Use Classification   PS   REC  PK   Additional Regulations
Public and semipublic use classifications:
Airport              P    -    -     
Cemeteries           C    -    -     
Clubs and lodges     -    P(1) P(1)  
College and trade
schools, public or   P    -    -     
private
Community center     P    -    P     
Correctional         P    -    -     
facility
Cultural             P    -    P     
institutions
Government offices   P    -    -     
Instructional        P    -    -     
services
Park and recreation  P    P    P     
facilities, public
Public safety        P    -    -     
facilities
Religious facilities C    -    -     
Schools, public or   P    -    -     
private
Commercial use classifications:
Aircraft sales,
services, and        P(2) -    -     
storage
Commercial
entertainment and    See sub-classifications below
recreation:
Large scale          P    C    P    Section
                                    301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
Small scale          P(6) P(6) P(6) Section
                                    301.02, “Alcoholic Beverage Sales”
Eating, drinking,
and smoking          See sub-classifications below
establishments:
Coffee shops/cafes   P(3) P(1) P(1) Section
                                    300.08, “Outdoor Seating”
Medical facilities:  See sub-classifications below
Hospital             P    -    -     
Recycling            See sub-classifications below
facilities:
Recycling collection P    -    -     
facility
Recycling processing P    -    -     
facility
Retail sales:                        
Swap meet            C    -    -     
Transportation, communication, and utilities use classifications:
Telecommunication                 
facilities:
Antenna and
transmission towers, P(4) P(4) P(4) Section
camouflage                          301.20, “Telecommunication Facilities”
facilities
Antenna and
transmission towers, M(4) M(4) M(4) Section
non-camouflage                      301.20, “Telecommunication Facilities”
facilities
Heliports            P(5) -    -     
Utilities, major:    C    -    -     
Solid waste
collection,          P    -    -     
treatment, and
disposal
Utilities, minor     P    P    P     
Agricultural and extractive uses:
Crop cultivation,    M    M    M    Section
commercial                          301.06, “Crop Cultivation”
Agricultural         M    M    M     
employee housing
Other applicable types:
Accessory uses and   P    P    P    Section
structures                          301.01, “Accessory Uses And Structures”
Nonconforming use    Chapter 307, “Nonconforming Uses, Structures, And Lots”
Temporary use        Section
                     301.21, “Temporary Uses”
 
Notes:
   Specific Limitations:
   (1)   Limited to facilities associated with park and recreational
facilities.
   (2)   Limited to facilities associated with an airport.
   (3)   Limited to cafes and restaurants accessory to cultural institutions.
   (4)   Prohibited within 300 feet of any R district except as detailed in
301.20e.
   (5)   Permitted only as accessory to a hospital or public airport.
   (6)   Minor Conditional Use Permit approval is required for indoor shooting
ranges.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
205.03: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Table 205.03 prescribes the development standards for the public and open space
districts. Additional regulations are denoted in the right hand column. Section
numbers in this column refer to other sections of this Chapter, while
individual letters refer to subsections that directly follow the table.
TABLE 205.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS - PUBLIC AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICTS
Standard PS REC PK Additional Standards
Standard     PS     REC    PK     Additional Standards
Lot and density standards:
Minimum lot  87,120
area (sq.    (2     10,000 10,000  
ft.)         acres)
Minimum lot  100    100    100     
width (ft.)
Minimum lot  100    75     75      
depth (ft.)
Building form and location:
Maximum                           Section
height (ft.) 75     35     25     205.03(a); and section
                                  300.06, “Heights And Height Exceptions”
Minimum                         
yards (ft.):
Front        20     0      0      Section
                                  300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Interior     10     0      0      Section
side                              300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Street side  10     0      0      Section
                                  300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Rear         10     0      0      Section
                                  300.01, “Building Projections Into Yards”
Transitional                      Section
- street     15     15     15     205.03(b), “Transitional Standards”
side
Maximum      0.25
floor area   (b)    0.10   0.10    
ratio
 
Notes:
   Additional Development Regulations:
   (a)   Transitional Standards. Where a site is adjacent to an R district, the
following standards apply:
      (1)   Buildings exceeding twenty (20) feet in height must be set back
five (5) feet from the interior side and rear property line; for buildings
exceeding twenty-five (25) feet in height shall be stepped back one (1)
additional foot for every foot of height above twenty-five (25) feet.
      (2)   The maximum height within forty (40) feet of an R district boundary
is thirty-five (35) feet. The maximum height within fifty (50) feet of an R
district boundary is forty (40) feet.
FIGURE 205.03(a)(2): PUBLIC AND OPEN SPACE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3718.png]
 
   (b)   Determining FAR. When determining FAR in the PS District, medical
laboratories, operating rooms, meeting rooms, conference facilities, cafeteria
facilities, and recreational facilities are excluded from floor area.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 206. RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT
SECTION:
206.01: Purpose
206.02: Establishment
206.03: Master Plan Required
206.04: Land Use Mix And Distribution Within A Residential Neighborhood
206.05: Park Design Standards
206.06: Street/Transportation System Requirements
206.07: Variety In Housing Design
206.01: PURPOSE:
The Residential Neighborhood (RN) District is intended to implement the
neighborhood centers shown on the General Plan Land Use Diagram and guide the
design of new residential neighborhoods. More specifically, these standards are
intended to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   Create compact neighborhoods with a defined, mixed-use center including
public open space, a school or other community facilities, and neighborhood
commercial.
   B.   Create neighborhood centers with a mix of retail, civic, and service-
oriented uses to support local transit and provide places for social
interaction for neighborhood residents.
   C.   Create a street system that is well-aligned with and connected to
streets in adjacent neighborhoods and allows residents to walk, bike, or drive
directly and safely to parks, schools, and neighborhood shopping via a
continuous system of streets, sidewalks, and bike routes.
   D.   Provide a variety of housing types, designs, and lot sizes to serve the
range of household types and incomes in Porterville, and give each home
individuality. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
206.02: ESTABLISHMENT:
A RN District may be established within the potential RN district areas shown
on the Zoning Map by Zoning Map amendment according to the procedures of
Chapter 613, Amendments to Zoning Map and Text, and the standards of this
chapter. The minimum area of a RN District shall be eighty (80) acres. The City
Council may approve a RN District for smaller areas, but not less than forty
(40) acres, upon finding that a RN District of eighty (80) acres or more is
infeasible. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
206.03: MASTER PLAN REQUIRED:
An application for a rezoning to an RN district shall include a master plan.
The master plan shall be accepted and processed concurrently, in the same
manner as a Conditional Use Permit application, pursuant to Chapter 601, Common
Procedures, and Chapter 604, Conditional Use Permits, although additional
information is required to be submitted in order to determine that the intent
of this Chapter and the General Plan will be fulfilled.
   A.   Required Elements. An application for a master plan in the RN District
shall include the following elements in addition to any application
requirements established by the Zoning Administrator.
      1.   Land Uses. The location of proposed land uses and a summary of the
total land area dedicated to each use. Schools shall be located as shown on the
General Plan Land Use Diagram unless an alternative site has been mutually
agreed upon by the City and the applicable school district. Other land uses
shall be allocated and distributed within the plan area according to the
standards of Section 206.04, Land Use Mix and Distribution within Residential
Neighborhoods.
      2.   Street System:
         a.   Location of major and minor arterial streets, parkways and minor
and collector streets, and proposed spacing of intersections.
         b.   Proposed street alignments in relation to existing and planned
streets on all abutting properties.
         c.   Cross-sections or equivalent information that indicates the
elements (travel lanes, parking lanes, bike lanes, planter strips, sidewalks,
sound walls, street tree spacing) and dimensions of elements to be included in
each street type within the plan area.
         d.   Any proposed traffic calming facilities.
      3.   Pedestrian and Bike Network. A system of bicycle and pedestrian
routes that provide access to all parts of the plan area. All proposed mid-
block pedestrian connections or connections from the ends of cul-de-sacs to
streets and parks shall be delineated.
      4.   Utilities. Location of main utility lines that must be extended into
the project area to accommodate the proposed land uses and densities. The plan
also must show utility placement in relation to street trees. (Ord. 1866, 11-
19-2019)
206.04: LAND USE MIX AND DISTRIBUTION WITHIN A RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD:
The land uses within a RN district shall be allocated and distributed according
to the standards of this section.
   A.   1.   Consistency with General Plan. Land uses shall reflect the
required land use mix in the General Plan Land Use Diagram. Adjustments to the
locations of land uses indicated on the General Plan Land Use Diagram may be
approved, as long as the total allocation of each use within each plan area is
consistent with the proportions indicated on the diagram. Where such locational
adjustments are proposed, the standards of this section provide a guide for the
minimum allocation of land uses within residential neighborhoods.
      2.   Residential Uses. Residential uses shall be provided at densities
consistent with the General Plan designation(s) for the site. A minimum of
twenty (20) percent of the units within each master plan must be small-lot
(4,500 sq. ft. or smaller lot size) detached homes, townhouse, or multi-family
units within walking distance (1/4 mile) of the neighborhood center.
      3.   Public Parks. Land for public parks must be provided at a ratio of
five (5) acres per one thousand (1,000) residents, or in-lieu fees must be paid
as established by the City. Parks shall be consistent with any adopted parks or
open space master plan for the city. The allocation of types of parks shall be
as follows:
         a.   A minimum of three and one-half (3.5) acres of neighborhood parks
per one thousand 1,000 residents; and
         b.   A minimum of one and one-half (1.5) acres of community parks per
one thousand (1,000) residents.
      4.   Park Location. At least one (1) public park must be located within
one (1) quarter mile, via a direct pedestrian route, of eighty (80) percent of
all homes within the master plan area.
   B.   Non-Residential Uses. At least four (4) percent of gross land area must
be designated for non-residential uses, including public and semi-public uses
and/or neighborhood-serving commercial uses.
   C.   Neighborhood Centers. All master plan areas of one hundred sixty (160)
acres or more must include a defined, centrally located, neighborhood center
composed of a mix of retail, civic, and service-oriented uses, unless an
existing or approved neighborhood center is located within one-quarter mile,
via a direct pedestrian route, of eighty (80) percent of all homes within the
master plan area. At minimum, neighborhood centers shall include:
      1.   Retail and Service Commercial Uses. Retail and service commercial
uses oriented to serving the needs of local residents.
      2.   Public Plaza, Square, or Commons
         a.   Size: Minimum area of ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
         b.   Dimensions: Minimum horizontal dimension of fifty (50) feet.
         c.   Street Access: Bordered by public streets on at least one (1)
side.
         d.   Required Amenities: Public plazas, squares, and commons shall
include street furniture and other amenities such as gazebos, fountains,
statuary, flag poles, kiosks, and benches. At least one (1) lineal foot of
seating area shall be provided for each thirty (30) square feet of plaza area.
Seating may include wooden benches, steps, seating walls, and retaining walls
where the seating area is between sixteen (16) inches and thirty (30) inches
above grade.
         e.   Surface and Planting: Public plazas, squares, and commons shall
include paved walkways, and may include paved plaza areas. Landscaped areas and
pervious surfaces that provide stormwater infiltration shall also be included.
         f.   Schools: School sites shall be provided as shown on the General
Plan Land Use Diagram. Where locational adjustments are proposed, the applicant
shall consult with the school district, Community Development Department, and
the Parks and Leisure Services Department prior to submission of a master plan.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
206.05: PARK DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Park Size. Neighborhood parks must be a minimum of two (2)
acres in size. Community parks must be a minimum of ten (10) acres in size.
   B.   Park Frontage and Accessibility. A minimum of sixty (60) percent of the
perimeter of any public park must abut a street. Where it is not feasible to
locate residences across the street from and facing the park, frequent
pedestrian access to the park must be provided at the ends of cul-de-sacs.
   C.   Landscaped Area. At least fifty (50) percent of the horizontal area of
any park shall consist of landscaped pervious surfaces such as turf, live
plantings, gravel, sand, and bark. No more than fifty (50) percent of the area
of a neighborhood park may be paved.
   D.   Detention Basins. Drainage detention basins may be located within
parks; however, all parks shall include open turf area above the basin flood
line for playing fields and active recreation areas. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
206.06: STREET/TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Continuous Street System. All streets and alleys must connect to other
streets and alleys to form a continuous vehicular and pedestrian network within
the plan area and to adjacent development. The use of gates or other
preventative barriers is not permitted on public streets.
   B.   Connection to Adjacent Areas. Streets shall be aligned with existing
and planned arterial and collector streets in adjacent neighborhoods in such a
way that a continuous street pattern is created. Where a new residential
subdivision occurs adjacent to undeveloped land within the Urban Development
Boundary, stubs must be provided for future connections to the edge of the
property line. Where street stubs exist on adjacent properties, new streets
within a new residential subdivision shall be connected to these stubs.
   C.   Dead-End Streets. Culs-de-sac and dead end streets shall be prohibited
in residential areas except where necessary to give access to or permit
satisfactory future development of adjoining land. Cul-de-sacs and dead end
streets shall be avoided in all other areas. If cul-de-sacs and dead end
streets cannot be avoided, the maximum length shall be six hundred (600) feet.
Culs-de-sac longer than three hundred (300) feet shall have pedestrian paths
connecting them to parks and adjacent streets.
   D.   Intersections. A minimum of three (3) collector streets shall intersect
each one (1) mile length of arterial street. Pedestrian facilities shall be
provided at all signalized intersections.
   E.   Maximum Block Length. Blocks shall not exceed six hundred (600) feet in
length, unless existing adjacent property alignment, topographic, or traffic
conditions justify a variation. Pedestrian connections consisting of a paved
walkway at least five (5) feet wide within a ten (10) foot landscape right-of-
way must be provided no more than three hundred fifty (350) feet apart for any
blocks over six hundred (600) feet.
   F.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of the street.
   G.   Pedestrian and Bicycle Paths. Continuous and convenient bicycle and
pedestrian access shall be provided from every home within a plan area to the
nearest neighborhood center, school, and park.
   H.   Traffic Calming. Traffic calming street design or devices shall be
included as needed to ensure that designated speed limits are not exceeded.
   I.   Street Trees. Street trees shall be provided on all public street
frontages. Fifteen gallon trees shall be planted in a linear fashion within
planter strips between the curb and sidewalk, at least thirty (30) feet on
center. Each master plan shall indicate the type and location of proposed
street trees and how utility placement will accommodate street tree placement.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
206.07: VARIETY IN HOUSING DESIGN:
No more than three (3) homes within each block face may be designed to have the
same front elevation. There must be two (2) distinguishing and obviously
different characteristics, such as building envelope, front porch, window
pattern, or roof shape, between the front elevations of homes within a single
block. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 207. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD) DISTRICT
SECTION:
207.01: Purpose
207.02: Zoning Map Designation
207.03: Land Use Regulations
207.04: Development Regulations
207.05: Procedures
207.06: Required Findings
207.07: Conditions
207.08: Expiration And Renewal
207.09: Amendments Of Approved Plans
207.10: Status Of Specific Plan
207.11: Development Plan Review
207.01: PURPOSE:
The purposes of the Planned Development (PD) District are to:
   A.   Establish a procedure for development on large lots of land in order to
reduce or eliminate the rigidity, delays, and conflicts that otherwise would
result from application of zoning standards and procedures designed primarily
for small lots.
   B.   Ensure orderly and thorough planning and review procedures that will
result in quality urban design.
   C.   Promote variety and avoid monotony in large developments by allowing
greater freedom in selecting the means to provide access, light, open space,
and amenities.
   D.   Ensure allocation and improvement of common open space in residential
areas, and provide for maintenance of the open space at the expense of those
directly benefiting from it.
   E.   Facilitate the assembly of properties that might otherwise be developed
in unrelated increments to the detriment of surrounding neighborhoods.
   F.   Provide for the integration and administration of Specific Plans,
adopted pursuant to State law into the City’s land use regulations. (Ord. 1866,
11-19-2019)
207.02: ZONING MAP DESIGNATION:
A PD district shall be noted on the zoning map by the designation “PD”. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
207.03: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
No use other than an existing use is permitted in a PD district except in
accord with a valid PD Plan or Specific Plan. Any permitted or conditional use
authorized by this Chapter may be included in an approved PD Plan or an adopted
Specific Plan consistent with the General Plan land use designation(s) for the
property. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
207.04: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Area. The minimum area of a PD district shall be four (4)
contiguous acres. The City Council may approve a PD district that contains less
than four (4) acres, but at least two and one-half (2.5) acres, upon a finding
that special site characteristics exist and that the proposed development will
result in specific public benefits, in addition to the findings required by
Section
207.06, Required Findings.
   B.   Residential Unit Density. Except where a density bonus is granted in
compliance with the City’s density bonus regulations for affordable housing and
childcare (Chapter 302, Affordable Housing Density Bonus and Other Incentives),
the total number of dwelling units in a PD Plan shall not exceed the maximum
number permitted by the General Plan density for the total area of the planned
development designated for residential use.
   C.   Performance Standards. The Performance Standards prescribed by Chapter
306, Performance Standards apply.
   D.   Other Development Regulations. Other development regulations shall be
as prescribed by the PD Plan. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
207.05: PROCEDURES:
   A.   City Council Review. A PD district must be adopted by the City Council
as an amendment to the Zoning Map, according to the procedures of Chapter 608,
Amendments to Zoning Map and Text. An application for rezoning to a PD district
shall include a Specific Plan or PD Plan. The PD Plan shall be accepted and
processed concurrently, in the same manner as a Conditional Use Permit
application, pursuant to Chapter 601, Common Procedures and Chapter 604,
Conditional Use Permits, although additional information is required to be
submitted in order to determine that the intent of this Chapter and the General
Plan will be fulfilled.
   B.   Initiation. An amendment to reclassify property to PD shall be
initiated by a property owner or authorized agent or the City Council. If
initiated by a property owner or authorized agent and the property is not under
a single ownership, all owners must join the application, and a map showing the
extent of ownership shall be submitted with the application.
   C.   Pre-Application Procedure. Prior to submitting an application for
approval of a PD, the applicant may schedule a pre-application review
conference with the Project Review Committee to discuss the general
acceptability of the proposal, possible problems that may be encountered, and
the need for any interagency coordination. Such preliminary consultations shall
be relative to a conceptual development plan submitted by the applicant.
   D.   Applications. Applications for a PD shall be in the form established by
the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by the required information
and plan submittals and the required fee. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
207.06: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
A PD Plan and re-zoning shall only be approved if all of the following findings
are made:
   A.   The proposed development is consistent with the General Plan and any
applicable specific plan, including the density and intensity limitations that
apply;
   B.   The site for the proposed development is adequate in size and shape to
accommodate the proposed uses and all setbacks, open spaces, setbacks, walls
and fences, parking area, loading areas, landscape, and other features
required;
   C.   Adequate transportation facilities and public services exist or will be
provided in accord with the conditions of development plan approval, to serve
the proposed development; and the approval of the proposed development will not
result in a reduction of traffic levels of service or public services so as to
be a detriment to public health, safety, or welfare;
   D.   The proposed development will not have a substantial adverse effect on
surrounding land uses and will be compatible with the existing and planned land
use character of the surrounding area;
   E.   The improvements required and the manner of development adequately
address all natural and man-made hazards associated with the proposed
development and the project site, including, but not limited to, flood, fire,
and seismic or soils hazards; and
   F.   The proposed development provides a more efficient use of the land and
superior architecture and site design compared to that which could be achieved
through the application of the zoning district regulations that otherwise would
apply. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
207.07: CONDITIONS:
In approving a PD Plan and re-zoning, the City Council may impose reasonable
conditions deemed necessary to:
   A.   Ensure that the proposal conforms in all significant respects with the
General Plan and with any other applicable plans or policies that the City has
adopted;
   B.   Achieve the general purposes of this Chapter or the specific purpose of
the zoning district in which the project is located;
   C.   Achieve the findings listed in Section
207.06, Required Findings above; or
   D.   Mitigate any potentially significant impacts identified as a result of
review conducted in compliance with the requirements of the California
Environmental Quality Act. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
207.08: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL:
   A.   Expiration:
      1.   PD Plan. A PD Plan shall be effective on the same date as the
Chapter creating the PD district for which it was approved and shall expire two
(2) years after the effective date unless actions specified in the conditions
of approval have been taken, or a building permit has been issued and
construction diligently pursued. An approved PD Plan may specify a development
staging program exceeding two (2) years.
      2.   Tentative Map. Where a tentative map has been approved in
conjunction with a PD Plan, the PD Plan shall expire upon the expiration of the
tentative map.
      3.   Phased Development. In the event that the applicant intends to
develop the project in phases, and the City Council approves phased
development, the PD Plan shall remain in effect so long as not more than one
(1) year lapses between the end of one phase and the beginning of the next
phase unless the PD Plan is renewed pursuant to subsection (b), below. If the
PD Plan is not renewed and more than one (1) year lapses between the end of one
phase and the beginning of the next phase, the PD Plan shall expire.
   B.   Renewal. An approved PD Plan may be renewed for a period approved by
the City Council after a duly-noticed public hearing. Application for renewal
shall be made in writing prior to expiration of the original approval. The City
Council may renew a PD Plan if it finds the renewal consistent with the
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
207.09: AMENDMENTS OF APPROVED PLANS:
   A.   Changed Plans. Amendments to a PD district or PD Plan or Specific Plan
may be requested by the applicant or its successors. Amendments to the approved
Plan shall be classified as major or minor amendments. Upon receipt of an
amendment application, the Zoning Administrator shall determine if the proposed
amendment constitutes a major or minor amendment.
   B.   Major Amendments. Major Amendments to an approved PD district or PD
Plan or Specific Plan shall be considered by the City Council at a duly noticed
public hearing. An amendment will be deemed major if it involves one or more of
the following changes:
      1.   A change in the boundary of the PD district;
      2.   An increase or decrease in the number of dwelling units for the PD
district that is greater than the maximum or less than the minimum stated in
the PD Plan or Specific Plan;
      3.   An increase or decrease in the floor area for any non-residential
land use that results in the floor area exceeding the minimum or maximum stated
in the PD Plan or Specific Plan;
      4.   Any change in land use or density that is likely to negatively
impact or burden public facilities and utilities infrastructure as determined
by the City Engineer;
      5.   Any change in land use or density that is likely to negatively
impact or burden circulation adjacent to the PD district or to the overall
major street system, as determined by the City Engineer; or
      6.   Any other proposed change to the PD Plan or Specific Plan or the
conditions of approval that substantively alters one or more of its components
as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   C.   Minor Amendments. Amendments not meeting one or more of the criteria
listed in subsection (b) shall be considered minor if they are consistent with
and would not change any original condition of approval. Minor Amendments may
be approved by the Zoning Administrator. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
207.10: STATUS OF SPECIFIC PLAN:
A Specific Plan adopted by resolution of the City Council shall be administered
as prescribed by the Council, consistent with Government Code Section 65450.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
207.11: DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW:
Plans for a project in a PD district shall be accepted for planning and
building permits or subdivisions only if they are consistent with an approved
PD Plan or Specific Plan and any conditions of approval. No project may be
approved and no building permit issued unless the project, alteration or use is
consistent with an approved PD Plan or Specific Plan. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
SERIES 300. ADDITIONAL USE AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 300. GENERAL SITE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
300.01: Building Projections Into Yards
300.02: Development On Substandard Lots
300.03: Fences And Freestanding Walls
300.04: Replacement Housing On Nonvacant Sites
300.05: Habitat Conservation
300.06: Heights And Height Exceptions
300.07: Lighting And Illumination
300.08: Outdoor Seating
300.09: Outdoor Storage
300.10: Screening
300.11: Street Dedication, Construction Of Public Improvements, And
Installation Of Certain Parkway Improvements
300.12: Swimming Pools
300.13: Trash And Refuse Collection Areas
300.14: Truck Docks, Loading, And Service Areas
300.15: Underground Utilities
300.16: Visibility At Driveways And Intersections (Sight Distance)
300.01: BUILDING PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS:
   A.   Maximum Projection Allowed. Notwithstanding any other subsection of
this section, no projection may extend closer than three (3) feet to an
interior lot line. No projection may extend into a public utility easement.
   B.   Architectural Projections. Cornices, canopies, eaves, sills, buttresses
or similar architectural features, chimneys and fireplaces not exceeding eight
(8) feet in width, cantilevered bay windows not exceeding ten (10) feet in
width, and planting boxes shall not extend closer than three (3) feet to any
side or rear lot line or three (3) feet into any front yard unless further
restricted by the Building Code.
FIGURE 300.01B: ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3720.png]
 
   C.   Fire Escapes. Fire escapes, required by law, ordinance, or regulations
of a public agency may project up to four (4) feet into any yard.
   D.   Stairways, Stair Landings, and Balconies. Stairways, stair landings,
and balconies that service above the first floor level of the building may
project up to three (3) feet into any yard, provided that all such structures
shall be open, unenclosed and without roofs, except for lattice type guard
railings. Structural supports for stairways and landings may be enclosed.
   E.   Decks, Porches, and Stairs. Uncovered decks, porches and stairs less
than two and one-half (2.5) feet above ground elevation may project in any yard
consistent with the Building Code. Uncovered decks, porches, and stairs higher
than two and one-half (2.5) feet servicing the first floor level of the
building may project no more than three (3) feet into the front, side, and rear
yards, and no closer than three (3) feet to a property line.
   F.   Depressed Ramps or Stairways and Supporting Structures. When designed
to permit access to parts of buildings below average ground level, may extend
into any required yard not more than three (3) feet.
   G.   Ramps and Similar Structures for Disabled Person’s Accommodation. Up to
the entire yard where it is the only feasible location to provide a reasonable
accommodation consistent with the Americans with Disabilities Act. (Ord. 1866,
11-19-2019)
300.02: DEVELOPMENT ON SUBSTANDARD LOTS:
A legally created lot having a width or area less than required for the base
district in which it is located may be occupied by a permitted or conditional
use if it has a width of twenty-five (25) feet or more and an area of two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet or more, provided that on the
effective date of regulations that made it substandard, it was in single
ownership separate from any abutting lot. No substandard lot shall be further
reduced in area or width, and a substandard lot shall be subject to the same
yard and density requirements as a standard lot except as otherwise provided. A
maximum of one (1) dwelling unit may be located on a substandard lot that meets
the requirement of this section. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.03: FENCES AND FREESTANDING WALLS:
   A.   Maximum Height:
      1.   Front Yards. No solid fence or freestanding wall within or along the
exterior boundary of the required front yard shall exceed a height of three and
one-half (3.5) feet. Open or lattice type fences that are at least fifty
percent (50%) open, or hedges, shall not exceed a height of four (4) feet.
      2.   Side and Rear Yards. No fence or freestanding wall within or along
the exterior boundary of the required side or rear yards shall exceed a height
of seven (7) feet. The Zoning Administrator may allow a fence or wall up to
eight (8) feet in height to be located along the exterior boundary of the
required side or rear yard subject to the issuance of a building permit.
      3.   Decorative Features. One (1) entry gateway, trellis, or other entry
structure is permitted in the required front or street-facing side yard of each
lot, provided that the maximum height or width of the structure does not exceed
ten (10) feet. Such decorative feature shall not have any solid obstruction
that exceeds two (2) feet in diameter between the height of three (3) and ten
(10) feet.
FIGURE 300.03: FENCES AND FREESTANDING WALLS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4440.png]
   B.   Design and Materials. Fencing visible from a street shall be treated as
an integral part of the architecture, with materials, colors, and detailing
drawn from the building they surround or adjoin.
      1.   Prohibition on Hazardous Fencing Materials. The use of barbed wire,
razor wire, ultra barrier, electrified, and other hazardous fencing is not
permitted. An exception to this standard may be approved for sites in the AC
District where needed for livestock or ranch operations.
      2.   Limitation on Chain Link Fencing. Use of chain-link fencing is not
permitted in front or street-facing side yards, and is permitted only in rear
and interior side yards that do not abut public and quasi-public land uses.
This standard does not apply to sites in the Residential, IA or IG districts.
   C.   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be provided between the back of sidewalk
and the wall/fence line to include trees, shrubs, groundcover and vines in
order to improve the aesthetics of the wall/fence. There shall be a minimum of
five (5) feet adjacent to local roads and ten (10) feet adjacent to collectors
and arterials. Maintenance of the landscaping shall be provided by the property
owner, or by an assessment district established for such maintenance in
perpetuity.
   D.   Visibility At Intersections: Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this section, fences and walls shall comply with the visibility standards
contained in section
300.16, “Visibility At Driveways And Intersections (Sight Distance)”, of this
article. (1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1871, 6-2-2020)
300.04: REPLACEMENT HOUSING ON NONVACANT SITES:
Redevelopment of nonvacant sites that contain residential dwellings shall
replace said dwellings. Replacement requirements shall be consistent with those
set forth in Government Code Section 65915, subdivision (c), paragraph (3).
(Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
300.05: HABITAT CONSERVATION:
New development shall be located to protect and preserve areas in which plant
and/or animal life or its habitats are either rare or especially valuable
because of their special nature or role in an ecosystem and which would easily
be disturbed or degraded by human activities and development. The provisions of
this section apply to discretionary development projects proposed within or
adjacent to (within 300 feet of the boundary of) sensitive habitat areas
designated in the General Plan.
   A.   Site Design. Sensitive habitat areas shall be protected by any of the
following means: 1) avoidance; 2) onsite mitigation; 3) offsite mitigation; and
4) purchase of mitigation credits.
   B.   Biological Report. A discretionary development application for a
project on a site located within or adjacent to (within 300 feet of the
boundary of) sensitive habitat areas designated in the General Plan shall also
include a report commissioned by the City that contains the following:
      1.   An evaluation of the impact the development may have on the habitat,
and whether the development will be consistent with the biological continuance
of the habitat. Maximum feasible mitigation measures to protect the resource
shall be identified and a program for monitoring and evaluating the
effectiveness of the mitigation measures shall be included.
      2.   Conditions of approval recommendations for the restoration of
damaged habitats, where feasible.
   C.   Required Findings. Approval of a development permit for a project
within or adjacent to identified habitat areas shall not occur unless the
applicable review body first finds that:
      1.   There will be no significant negative impact on the identified
sensitive habitat and the proposed use will be consistent with the biological
continuance of the habitat.
      2.   The proposed use will not significantly disrupt the habitat.
      3.   Adequate mitigation measures are required to mitigate impacts to
significant biological resources.
      4.   There has been “no net loss” of wetlands and vernal pools. Disturbed
wetlands and vernal pools have been replaced.
      5.   Where feasible, damaged habitats will be restored as a condition of
development approval. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.06: HEIGHTS AND HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Maximum Height of Structures. The height of structures shall not exceed
the standards established by the applicable zoning district of this Ordinance.
      1.   Increased Height Limit for Projections. Chimneys not over six (6)
feet in width, silos, cupolas, flagpoles, monuments, gas storage holders, radio
and other towers, water tanks, church steeples, fire and parapet walls, roof
furniture, and similar structures covering not more than twenty (20) percent of
the top floor roof area to which they are accessory, may exceed maximum
permitted height standards by eight (8) feet. Exceptions may be granted with
the approval of a Conditional Use Permit.
FIGURE 300.06: INCREASED HEIGHT LIMIT FOR PROJECTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3724.png]
 
      2.   Airport Environs Overlay District. Airport related towers may exceed
the maximum permitted height standard in the IA and PS district.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, there shall be no exceptions
to the specified height limits within the Airport Environs (AE) Overlay
District, unless authorized by approval of a Conditional Use Permit. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
300.07: LIGHTING AND ILLUMINATION:
   A.   Purpose. This section is intended to minimize outdoor artificial light
that may have a detrimental effect on the environment, astronomical research,
amateur astronomy, and enjoyment of the night sky. These provisions are also
intended to reduce the unnecessary illumination of adjacent properties and the
use of energy.
   B.   Applicability. Outdoor light fixtures installed after the effective
date of this Ordinance and maintained upon private property shall comply with
the requirements of this section.
   C.   Exemptions. The following types of lighting fixtures are exempt from
the requirements of this section:
      1.   Prior Installation. All light fixtures installed prior to the
effective date of this Ordinance, unless fifty (50) percent or more of the
light fixtures on the premises are replaced.
      2.   Fossil Fuels. All light fixtures producing light directly by the
combustion of fossil fuels.
      3.   Low Lumens. All light fixtures with an initial total lamp sources
lumens of four thousand fifty (4,050) or less.
      4.   Construction and Emergency Lighting. All construction or emergency
lighting fixtures, provided they are temporary and are discontinued immediately
upon completion of the construction work or abatement of the emergency.
   D.   Maximum Height. Lighting fixtures shall not exceed the maximum heights
specified in
Table 300.07(A) below.
      TABLE 300.07A: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF LIGHTING FIXTURES
 
District                Maximum Height
Residential districts   16 feet
CN, PO                  16 feet
CMX, downtown districts 16 feet within 100 feet of any street frontage; 20 feet
                        in any other location
PS                      20 feet within 100 feet of any street frontage; 25 feet
                        in any other location
CR, CG, IP, IG, IA      40 feet
REC, PK                 50 feet1
 
   Note:
      1.    Sports field lighting shall be defined per project.
   E.   Shielding. All lighting fixtures shall be shielded in accordance with
Table 300.07(B) so as not to produce obtrusive glare onto the public right-of-
way or adjoining properties. All luminaries shall meet the most recently
adopted criteria of the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America
(IESNA) for “Cut Off” or “Full Cut Off” luminaries, as illustrated in
Figure 300.07.
      TABLE 300.07B: REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIELDING AND FILTERING
Fixture Lamp Type Shielding Required Filtering Required
Fixture Lamp Type                       Shielding Required Filtering Required
Low pressure sodium1                    None               None
Light-emitting diode (LED)              Fully5             Yes2
High pressure sodium                    Fully              None
Metal halide                            Fully              Yes4
Fluorescent                             Fully5             Yes2
Quartz3                                 Fully              None
Incandescent greater than 100W          Fully              None
Incandescent 100W or less               None               None
Mercury vapor                           Not permitted
Fossil fuel                             None               None
Glass tubes filled with neon, argon, or None               None
krypton
Other sources                           As approved by the zoning administrator
 
   Notes:
      1.   This is the preferred light source to minimize undesirable light
into the night sky affecting astronomical observations.
      2.   Warm white natural lamps are preferred to minimize detrimental
effects.
      3.   For the purposes of this article, quartz lamps shall not be
considered an incandescent light source.
      4.   Most glass, acrylic, or translucent enclosures satisfy these filter
requirements.
      5.   Outdoor signs constructed of translucent materials and wholly
illuminated from within do not require shielding.
   FIGURE 300.07: LIGHT FIXTURE SHIELDING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3726.png]
 
   F.   Multi-Family Residential Illumination. Aisles, passageways, and
pedestrian recesses related to and within the building complex shall be
illuminated with an intensity of at least 0.25 foot-candles at the ground level
during the hours of darkness. Lighting devices shall be protected by weather
and vandal-resistant covers.
   G.   Pedestrian Oriented Lighting. In the Downtown, CN, CR, and CMX
districts, exterior lighting shall be provided for a secure nighttime
pedestrian environment at building entrances, on-site pedestrian walkways,
public sidewalks and open areas with a safe level of illumination with an
intensity of at least 0.25 foot-candles at the ground level during the hours of
darkness. The Zoning Administrator may require additional lighting for bars,
nightclubs, and lounges or other entertainment venues in order to provide a
safe level of illumination.
   H.   Prohibitions and Requirements for Protection and Shielding:
      1.   Recreational Facility. No public or private outdoor recreational
facility shall be illuminated after 11:00 p.m., except to conclude any
recreational or sporting event or other activity conducted at a ball park,
outdoor amphitheater, area, or similar facility in progress prior to 11:00 p.m.
      2.   Outdoor Building and Landscaping. The unshielded outdoor
illumination of any building or landscaping is prohibited, except with
incandescent fixtures with lamps of sixteen hundred (1600) lumens or less.
      3.   Outdoor Signs. Lighting fixtures used to illuminate an outdoor sign
shall be mounted on the top of the sign structure and shall be shielded
according to Table 300.07(C) above.
   I.   Alternate Materials and Methods of Installation. Design, material, or
method of installation not specifically prescribed by this section may be
approved by the Zoning Administrator provided the proposed design, material, or
method complies with the intent of these provisions. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.08: OUTDOOR SEATING:
Eating and drinking establishments with outdoor seating areas shall be located,
developed, and operated in compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Location. Outdoor seating areas may be permitted in Downtown Districts
on any public sidewalk, provided a minimum of six (6) feet of public sidewalk
remains unobstructed for pedestrian uses. Outdoor seating areas may be
permitted in other zone districts as long as they do not conflict with required
pedestrian walkways, parking, landscaping or loading areas.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit. A Conditional Use Permit is required when the
outdoor seating area is located immediately abutting the property line of a
residential district, and contains more than five (5) tables or seating for
fifteen (15) customers.
   C.   Barriers. The use of barriers around the outdoor seating area may be
permitted, provided they are in a manner acceptable to the City and the design
is approved by the Zoning Administrator. Barriers will be required for uses
involving the sale of alcoholic beverages as approved with a Conditional Use
Permit.
   D.   Hours of Operation. The hours of operation for an outdoor seating area
shall be limited to the hours of operation of the associated eating and
drinking establishment.
   E.   Refuse Storage Area. No structure or enclosure to accommodate the
storage of trash or garbage shall be erected or placed on, adjacent to, or
separate from an outdoor seating area on the public sidewalk or right-of-way.
Refuse areas shall be in compliance with Section
300.13 Trash and Refuse Collection Areas. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.09: OUTDOOR STORAGE:
Outdoor storage of goods, materials, machines, equipment, and vehicles or parts
outside of a building for more than seventy-two (72) hours shall conform to the
standards of this section. The regulations of this section do not apply to
temporary storage of construction materials reasonably required for
construction work on the premises pursuant to a valid building permit.
   A.   Permitted Locations.
Table 300.09 states the districts where outdoor storage is permitted and
prohibited.
TABLE 300.09: OUTDOOR STORAGE REGULATIONS BY DISTRICT AND LOCATION
 
Base District                          Permissibility Of Outdoor Storage
Agriculture/rural/conservation         Permitted if associated with a permitted
districts                              agricultural use.
Residential, downtown, CN, CMX, PK and Not permitted. (All storage shall be
REC districts                          within an enclosed building.)
                                       Not permitted in front or street facing
CR, CG, PO, IP, IA, PS, and PK         side yards. Permitted in interior side
districts                              and rear yards, or outside of required
                                       yards, subject to the standards of this
                                       section.
IG                                     Permitted anywhere on a lot, subject to
                                       the standards of this section.
 
   B.   Screening. Screening of outdoor storage areas shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened so as not to be visible from
any public street or freeway; Residential district; or publicly accessible open
space area, parking area, access driveway, or similar thoroughfare.
      2.   Screening walls and fences shall be architecturally compatible with
the main structure on the site and shall not have barbed wire or razor wire
visible from any street or public access.
      3.   No screening wall or fence shall be located within a required
landscape planter along the street frontage.
      4.   If located on a lot line or in a required yard, screening walls and
fences shall not exceed the maximum fence height in required yards; in other
areas, they shall not exceed eight (8) feet in height, unless otherwise
approved by the Zoning Administrator to adequately screen material. No stored
goods may exceed the height of the screening wall or fence.
   C.   Surfacing:
      1.   Outdoor storage areas shall be paved. This requirement does not
apply to outdoor storage associated with a permitted agricultural use.
      2.   A waiver or exception may be granted to allow outdoor storage of
non-hazardous materials on other surfacing only if the following findings can
be made:
         a.   The proposed surfacing is appropriate, as determined by the City
Engineer, to the type of product displayed; and
         b.   The proposed surfacing will conform to all applicable federal and
State air and water quality standards. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.10: SCREENING:
   A.   Screening of Mechanical Equipment. All mechanical and electrical
equipment and antennas shall be screened or incorporated into the design of
buildings so as not to be visible from the street, freeway, or adjacent
residential districts. Such equipment includes, but is not limited to, all
roof-mounted equipment, utility meters, cable equipment, telephone entry boxes,
backflow prevention devices, irrigation control valves, electrical transformers
and pull boxes. Screening devices shall be consistent with the exterior colors
and materials of the buildings to which they are attached.
   B.   Roof Access Ladders and Fire Sprinkler Risers. Roof access ladders and
fire sprinkler risers shall be located internally as allowed by the California
Building Code.
   C.   Parking Areas. Parking areas shall be screened from view from public
streets and adjacent residential properties according to the following
standards:
      1.   Height. Screening of parking lots from adjacent public streets shall
be three (3) feet in height. Screening along interior lot lines that abut
residential districts shall be six (6) feet in height, except within the
required front setback of the applicable zoning district, where screening shall
be three (3) feet in height.
      2.   Materials. Screening may consist of one (1) or any combination of
the methods listed below.
         a.   Walls. Low-profile walls consisting of decorative concrete,
stone, or masonry materials.
         b.   Fences. An open fence of wrought iron or similar material
combined with plant materials to form an opaque screen. This option does not
include the use of chain-link or vinyl fencing.
         c.   Planting. Plant materials consisting of compact evergreen plants
that form an opaque screen. Such plant materials shall achieve a minimum height
of two (2) feet within eighteen (18) months after initial installation.
         d.   Berms. Berms planted with grass, ground cover, or other low-
growing plant materials.
   D.   Drive-Through Facilities. Vehicle lanes for drive-throughs shall be
screened from public streets to a height of three and one-half (3.5) feet.
Screening devices shall consist of walls and/or berms.
   E.   Common Property Lines. A six (6) foot high wall shall be provided on
the interior lot lines where any non-residential use abuts a residential
district or residential use where there is no alley. Such screening wall shall
be provided at the time of new construction or expansion of buildings, or
changes from one (1) use classification to another non-residential use
classification.
      1.   Location. Screening walls shall follow the lot line of the lot to be
screened, or shall be so arranged within the boundaries of the lot so as to
substantially hide from adjoining lots the building, facility, or activity
required to be screened.
      2.   Height. The six (6) foot high screening wall shall step down to
three and one-half (3.5) feet in height from the side property line
intersecting the front property line to a depth equal to the required front or
side yard setback of the abutting residential use in order to provide for safe
line of sight for vehicular traffic. Wall height may be increased in height to
accommodate adequate sound attenuation as required through the findings of an
acoustical analysis prepared by an acoustical professional. The design of such
improvements shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      3.   Materials. The screening wall shall be a masonry block wall. Block
walls shall match the standard colors allowed in the City’s graffiti abatement
program. The City Engineer may approve new wall/fencing materials that become
available in the future for use as an alternative to a masonry block wall based
on its proven comparable properties for durability, sound, light, and glare
attenuation. Topography, berming, and other alternative methods of mitigating
the nuisance of noise and light might be considered at time of project review.
      4.   Timing. If the residential use develops prior to the non-residential
use, a six (6) foot high wood fence may be constructed. If the non-residential
use or residential use develops adjacent to existing development the wall shall
be constructed with the new development. Where a six (6) foot high wood fence
already exists, the masonry wall footing, when constructed, shall comply with
City standards. The narrow offset portion of the masonry wall footing shall
abut the existing wood fence posts, or close thereto. The gap between the fence
shall be sealed with a top rail approved by the City Engineer. A condition of
approval may be imposed upon the developer of the non-residential use to work
with the adjacent property owner to eliminate the abutting and parallel wood
fence. Said wall shall be constructed concurrently with the non-residential
development. Those uses subject to a Conditional Use Permit may be evaluated to
determine applicability of the wall requirement.
   F.   State Route. Where a residential use abuts State Route rights-of-way or
State Route frontage road rights-of-way, screening according to the following
shall be installed along that frontage.
      1.   Height. An eight (8) foot high wall shall be provided unless an
acoustical analysis prepared by an acoustical professional verifies that an
appropriate height greater or lesser than the eight (8) feet is warranted or,
subject to the approval of any discretionary permit (i.e. Conditional Use
Permit, parcel or subdivision map). The design of such improvements shall be
approved by the City Engineer.
      2.   Material. The screening wall shall be a masonry block wall
constructed of decorative, split-face block and brown in color per the approved
colors maintained in the Community Development Department. The wall shall
include decorative columns, spaced no more than sixty (60) feet apart, with
stone veneer. The entire wall, including the columns, shall be capped on top.
The City Engineer may approve new wall/fencing materials that become available
in the future for use as an alternative to a masonry block wall based on its
proven comparable properties for durability, sound, light, and glare
attenuation. Topography, berming, and other alternative methods of mitigating
the nuisance of noise and light may be considered at time of project review.
      3.   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be provided along these walls to
include trees, shrubs, groundcover and vines in order to improve the aesthetics
of the wall and prevent graffiti. Adequate land and access shall be provided to
install and maintain such landscaping, to the satisfaction of the Parks and
Leisure Services Director. Maintenance of wall landscaping shall be provided by
the developer, or by an assessment district established for such maintenance in
perpetuity.
   G.   Adjacent to Residential Uses. The Zoning Administrator may require a
block wall based on the site design of the parking or service area or where
other noise, light, and glare are oriented toward a residential use. The wall
design shall be approved as part of the project by the City Engineer to ensure
that adequate line of sight distance is provided. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.11: STREET DEDICATION, CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, AND
INSTALLATION OF CERTAIN PARKWAY IMPROVEMENTS:
Public improvements shall be provided in compliance with the following
standards to any property or lot where public improvements were never
constructed or installed to City standards, or where such public improvements
for whatever cause have deteriorated to a condition that they no longer
adequately serve their intended purpose. An applicant for a Conditional Use
Permit or building permit shall be required to provide for said public
improvements along the frontage of such property as follows:
   A.   Right-of-way Dedication. Dedicate street right of way necessary to
obtain the ultimate right of way width as required by ordinance or resolution
of the City Council.
   B.   Curb, Gutter, and Sidewalk. Construct new, and/or repair existing curb,
gutter, sidewalk and handicap ramp as required by the City Engineer. If, due to
existing topographic or related conditions, the City Engineer determines that
it would be in the best interests of the City and its inhabitants to construct
said curb, gutter and sidewalk at a later date, the applicant shall deposit to
the City a cash amount equal to the City Engineer’s estimate of construction
cost, or execute an agreement as provided by Section
20-40.5, Deferred Construction, Cash Deposit, Lien Agreement, of the Municipal
Code.
   C.   Street and Alley Paveout. Construct street, and, if applicable, alley
paveout, from the gutter lip in the case of streets, and from the property line
in the case of alleys, to the existing pavement in accordance with City
standards. In cases where the street or alley is not paved, the construction
required of the applicant shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the width of
the street or alley. If, due to existing topographic or related conditions, the
City Engineer determines that it would be in the best interests of the City and
its inhabitants to construct said street or alley paveout at a later date, the
applicant shall deposit to the City a cash amount equal to the City Engineer’s
estimate of construction cost, or execute an agreement as provided by Section
20-40.5, Deferred Construction, Cash Deposit, Lien Agreement, of the Municipal
Code.
      1.   Single-family dwellings or duplexes shall not be required to pay for
any paveout costs that are over two (2) feet from the gutter lip or property
line.
   D.   Utility Structures. Relocate existing utility structures, when
required, to an area within the parkway to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer.
   E.    Parkway Trees. Provide for the installation of parkway trees as
required by the Director of Parks and Leisure Services in accordance with City
standards pertaining to the type, size, spacing and placement of such trees; to
the maintenance or extension of street tree themes when applicable; and, to the
time of installation when it is determined it would be in the best interest of
the City to postpone the placement of trees required pursuant to this section.
   F.   Non-residential Development. The following improvements shall be
installed with all non-residential development.
      1.   Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants to meet City standards for type, size
and spacing in accordance with the requirements of the Fire Department, and to
the satisfaction of the City Engineer. In lieu of installation, if otherwise
required pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the City may require
payment of a prorated fire hydrant fee in an amount set by resolution of the
City Council to acknowledge the area of benefit served by same.
      2.   Streetlights. Streetlights as required by the City Engineer at
intersections, culs-de-sac, crosswalks, curves, etc., to meet City standards
for type, illumination and spacing. In lieu of installation, if otherwise
required pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the City may require
payment of a prorated streetlight fee in an amount set by resolution of the
City Council to acknowledge the area of benefit served by same.
      3.   Drainage Facilities. Drainage facilities as required by the City
Engineer to meet City standards. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.12: SWIMMING POOLS:
Swimming pools located in any zoning district shall not be located in the
required front yard, required landscaped areas or closer than five (5) feet
from the water’s edge to any lot line or building. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.13: TRASH AND REFUSE COLLECTION AREAS:
Solid waste and recycling-container enclosures are required for new dwelling
groups consisting of four (4) or more dwelling units and for all nonresidential
developments in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Location. All enclosures shall comply with the California Building Code
and Fire Code and shall meet the following requirements unless it is
demonstrated that they are infeasible as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
      1.   The solid waste and recycling storage area shall not be located
within any required front yard, street side yard, or required landscaped area,
or any other area required by this Ordinance to be constructed or maintained
unencumbered according to fire and other applicable building and public safety
codes.
      2.   Solid waste and recycling areas shall be consolidated to minimize
the number of collection sites and located so as to reasonably equalize the
distance from the building spaces they serve. The number of required collection
sites shall be determined by the Public Works Department.
      3.   Solid waste and recycling storage areas shall be conveniently
accessible to refuse trucks. Enclosures shall be located so that the trucks and
equipment used by the City of Porterville or its contractors have sufficient
maneuvering areas and, if feasible, so that the collection equipment can avoid
backing. Project applicants are responsible for procuring current equipment
size and turning radius from the City of Porterville or its contracted solid
waste and recycling collector(s).
   B.   Materials, Construction, and Design
      1.   Minimum Height of Screening. Solid waste and recycling storage areas
located outside or on the exterior of any building shall be enclosed per City
standards for refuse and recycling enclosures.
      2.   Enclosure Material. Enclosure material shall be solid masonry or
concrete tilt-up with decorated exterior-surface finish compatible to the main
structure(s).
      3.   Gate Material. Gate material shall be decorative, solid, heavy-gauge
metal or a heavy-gauge metal frame with a covering of a view-obscuring
material. If not visible from a public street, public parking area, or
residential area, the enclosure gates may be constructed of chain link with
wood or plastic inserts.
      4.   Access to Enclosure from Residential Projects. Each solid waste and
recycling enclosure serving a residential project shall be designed to allow
walk-in access without having to open the main enclosure gate.
      5.   Enclosure Pad. Pads shall be a minimum of six (6) inch-thick
concrete.
      6.   Protection for Enclosures. Concrete curbs or equivalent shall
protect enclosures from adjacent vehicle parking and travel ways.
      7.   Landscaping. The perimeter of the recycling and trash enclosure,
except for areas used for access, shall be planted, if feasible, with drought
resistant landscaping, including a combination of shrubs and/or climbing
evergreen vines.
      8.   Clear Zone. The area in front of all enclosure types shall be kept
clear of obstructions, and shall be painted, striped, and marked “No Parking.”
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.14: TRUCK DOCKS, LOADING, AND SERVICE AREAS:
   A.   Minimum Distance from Residential Districts. Truck docks, loading, and
service areas are not permitted within fifty (50) feet of an R district
boundary, unless noise mitigation and view obscuring screening is provided, as
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Screening. Truck docks, loading, and service areas located in any
district shall be screened from any adjacent residential districts or uses. In
all districts except IA, IP and IG districts, these facilities shall be located
at the interior side of buildings or on the rear of the site and be screened so
as not to be visible from public streets. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.15: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
All electrical, telephone, cable television, and similar distribution lines
providing direct service to a development site shall be installed underground
within the site. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
300.16: VISIBILITY AT DRIVEWAYS AND INTERSECTIONS (SIGHT DISTANCE):
Visibility at driveways and intersections shall be maintained in accordance
with the following standards. The City Engineer may require extended or reduced
sight distance lengths where special conditions exist or will be created, as
necessary to maintain adequate visibility.
   A.   Driveways. Visibility at a driveway crossing a street property line
shall not be blocked above a maximum height of three (3) feet by vegetation or
three and one-half (3.5) feet by structures for a depth of twelve (12) feet as
viewed from the edge of the curb face on either side of the driveway at a
distance of twelve (12) feet. Street trees that are pruned at least eight (8)
feet above the established grade from top of curb so as not to obstruct clear
view by motor vehicle drivers are permitted.
FIGURE 300.16A: DRIVEWAY VISIBILITY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3728.png]
 
   B.   Controlled Intersections. A controlled intersection is one where a
traffic signal or stop sign (all-way or minor street only) exists to control
the flow and ensure the safety of traffic. Visibility at controlled street
intersections shall not be blocked above a maximum height (measured from
intersection street grades) of three (3) feet by vegetation or three and one-
half (3.5) feet by structures, including, but not limited to, fences and walls.
There shall be corner cut-offs of all lots which abut an intersection of two
streets. These standard corner cut-offs are determined by intersection points
located twelve (12) feet from the edge of the curb face of each street and are
the areas between these intersection points and the streets, one point being
twenty (20) feet from the curb face extension and the other a distance “D” from
the intersection of the crossing street (see
Table 300.16, Sight Distance Standards). The corner cut-offs for left turns
from a minor road, are determined by intersection points located three (3) feet
from the middle edge of the inside lane, and are the areas between these
intersection points and the streets, one point being twenty (20) feet from the
curb extension and the other a distance “D” from the intersection of the
crossing street (see
Table 300.16). No obstruction which limits the visibility of persons operating
vehicles on said streets shall be permitted in corner cut-off areas.
FIGURE 300.16B: VISIBILITY AT CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3731.png]
 
   C.   Uncontrolled Intersections. An uncontrolled intersection is one where
no traffic controls exist and is subject only to yielding from each street leg.
Same requirements as controlled intersections shall apply except that both
intersecting streets shall require a distance “D” from the intersection of the
crossing street to comply with the sight distance requirements on
Table 300.16, Sight Distance Standards.
FIGURE 300.16C: VISIBILITY AT UNCONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3733.png]
 
TABLE 300.16: SIGHT DISTANCE STANDARDS
             Controlled          Controlled               Uncontrolled
Design Speed Intersections Sight Intersections, Left Turn Intersections, Sight
             Distance            From Minor Road Sight    Distance
                                 Distance
             Controlled          Controlled               Uncontrolled
Design Speed Intersections Sight Intersections, Left Turn Intersections, Sight
             Distance            From Minor Road Sight    Distance
                                 Distance
15 mph       80'                 105'                     70'
20 mph       115'                145'                     90'
25 mph       155'                195'                     115'
30 mph       200'                245'                     140'
35 mph       250'                305'                     165'
40 mph       305'                365'                     195'
45 mph       360'                430'                     220'
50 mph       425'                500'                     245'
55 mph       495'                580'                     285'
60 mph       570'                660'                     325'
 
Note: Design speed is based on road classification per AASHTO or Caltrans
manuals.
Sources:
"A Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets", AASHTO, 2010.
"Highway Design Manual", Caltrans, 2011.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 301. STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC USES AND ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
301.01: Accessory Uses And Structures
301.02: Alcoholic Beverage Sales
301.03: Reserved
301.04: Automobile/Vehicle Service And Repair, Major And Minor
301.05: Auto Service Stations And Car Washing
301.06: Crop Cultivation
301.07: Family Daycare Home, Large
301.08: Hazardous Waste Management Facilities
301.09: Home Occupations
301.10: Manufactured Homes
301.11: Mobile Home Parks
301.12: Outdoor Retail Sales/Display
301.13: Personal Storage Facilities
301.14: Recycling Facilities
301.15: Reserved
301.16: Accessory Dwelling Units
301.17: Sexually Oriented Businesses
301.18: Single Room Occupancy Hotels
301.19: Social Service Facilities
301.20: Telecommunication Facilities
301.21: Temporary Uses
301.22: Transitional And Supportive Housing
301.23: Cannabis Cultivation, Use, And Commercial Activities
301.01: ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES:
An accessory use shall be secondary to a primary use and shall be allowed only
in conjunction with a principal use or building to which it relates under the
same regulations as the main use in any zoning district. Accessory uses and
structures are also subject to the development and site regulations found in
Chapter 300, General Site Regulations. Accessory structures shall be designed
to be of similar/compatible architecture and materials as the main buildings,
and in addition shall be located, developed, and operated in compliance with
the following standards in the agricultural and residential zone districts as
follows:
   A.   Agricultural Accessory Structures. In the AC and RR districts,
agricultural accessory uses and structures are allowed subject to the
provisions of this section. Agricultural accessory uses and structures include
any uses that are customarily related to an agricultural use including stables,
barns, pens and sheds or other structures for the housing of such animals,
feed, equipment, and tools.
      1.   Size. The maximum lot coverage allowed by the development standards
shall not be exceeded.
      2.   Height. The agricultural accessory structure shall not exceed
thirty-five (35) feet in height unless approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      3.   Building Separation. Agricultural accessory structures shall be
separated from any main building by a minimum of six (6) feet.
      4.   Setbacks. Agricultural accessory structures shall meet all setback
requirements of the main building.
   B.   Residential Accessory Structures. Residential accessory structures
include any uses that are customarily related to a residence, including
garages, greenhouses, storage sheds, studios, workshops, detached covered decks
(i.e. a patio structure), detached uncovered decks and patios two and one-half
(2.5) feet in height or greater, and similar structures. Uncovered decks under
two and one-half (2.5) feet in height, and fences are not subject to the
regulations in this section. Separate regulations for residential second units
are located in Section 301.16, Accessory Dwelling Units.
      1.   Attached Structures. An attached structure is not, by definition, an
accessory structure. A structure shall be considered attached to a main
structure if it is architecturally compatible with and made structurally a part
of the main structure, including sharing a common wall or roof-line with the
main structure. A structure attached with a breezeway connecting a door of the
residence to a door of the detached structure, with a roof that is a minimum of
eight (8) feet in width and fifteen (15) feet in length, will be considered a
part of the main structure for purposes of this Ordinance. An attached
structure shall comply with all requirements of this Ordinance applicable to
the main structure, including, but not limited to setback requirements and
height limits.
      2.   Number of Structures. The number of detached accessory structures
shall be limited to two (2) unless approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      3.   Size. The floor area of detached accessory structures shall not
exceed a cumulative floor area of one thousand two-hundred (1,200) square feet
unless approved by the Zoning Administrator. In reviewing a request for
additional size, the Zoning Administrator may consider neighborhood
compatibility, overall lot coverage, relationship of the accessory structure to
the main structure and use, and any circumstances unique to the neighborhood.
In no case shall the accessory building exceed the ground floor area of the
main building and in no case shall the maximum lot coverage allowed by the
development standards be exceeded.
      4.   Height. The maximum height shall not exceed eighteen (18) feet. The
Zoning Administrator may consider buildings exceeding eighteen (18) feet in
height that are stepped back one (1) foot from the required side and rear
setback lines for every foot of height above eighteen (18) feet up to twenty-
four (24) feet.
      5.   Building Separation. Detached accessory structures requiring a
building permit, with the exception of shade structures, shall be separated
from any main building by a minimum of six (6) feet.
      6.   Setbacks. When located in the rear one-third of a lot, detached
accessory buildings shall not be located closer than four (4) feet to any rear
property line. In instances where the rear property line is coterminous with an
alley right-of-way, the accessory building shall not be closer than one (1)
foot to such rear property line. Detached accessory buildings shall meet all
other setback requirements of the main building.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
301.02: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES:
Conditional Use Permit approval is required for any use involving the sale of
alcoholic beverages under an on-sale or off-sale license.
   A.   Liquor Stores. Liquor Stores and other off-sale establishments that
dedicate more than twenty-five (25) percent of the sale floor to sales of
alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption, but excluding full-service
grocery stores, shall be located, developed, and operated in compliance with
the following standards:
      1.   Location. In all areas outside the Downtown Districts, such
establishment shall be located a minimum of five hundred (500) feet from any
other such establishment or any educational, religious, or cultural institution
or public parks. The five hundred (500) foot separation requirement does not
apply in the Downtown Districts.
      2.   Litter. Trash receptacles shall be provided by entrances and exits
from the building.
      3.   Pay Telephones and Vending Machines. External pay telephones and
vending machines are prohibited. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.03: RESERVED:
301.04: AUTOMOBILE/VEHICLE SERVICE AND REPAIR, MAJOR AND MINOR:
Major and Minor Automobile/Vehicle Service and Repair uses shall be located,
developed, and operated in compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Noise. All body and fender work, stereo installation and testing, or
similar noise-generating activity shall be conducted within an enclosed masonry
or similar building with sound-attenuating construction to absorb noise. Air
compressors and similar equipment shall be located inside a building.
   B.   Litter. The premises shall be kept in an orderly condition at all
times. No used or discarded automotive parts or equipment or permanently
disabled, junked, or wrecked vehicles may be stored outside a building.
   C.   Work Areas. All work shall be conducted within an enclosed building.
   D.   Bay Doors. Bay doors shall not face a public right of way. On corner
lots fronting two (2) or more streets with different classifications in the
General Plan, bay doors shall face the street with the lower classification.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.05: AUTO SERVICE STATIONS AND CAR WASHING:
Service stations, automobile/vehicle washing facilities, and any other
commercial use that includes fuel pumps for retail sales of gasoline shall be
located, developed, and operated in compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Bay Doors. Bay doors shall not face a public right of way. On corner
lots fronting two (2) or more streets with different classifications in the
General Plan, bay doors shall face the street with the lower classification.
   B.   Pump Islands. Pump islands shall be located a minimum of fifteen (15)
feet from any property line to the nearest edge of the pump island. A canopy or
roof structure over a pump island may encroach up to ten (10) feet within this
distance.
   C.   Canopies and Roof Structures. Canopies and roof structures over a pump
island, including associated signage, shall be designed as an integral design
element of a building’s architecture and architecturally compatible, including
materials, color and design details, with surrounding structures.
   D.   Washing Facilities. No building or structure shall be located within
ten (10) feet of the property line or within twenty (20) feet of any interior
lot line of a residential use or an R district.
   E.   Signage. Where not otherwise accommodated in Section 305, Signs,
service station signage needed to comply with the California Business and
Professions Code §13532 can be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   F.   Hours of Operation. Automobile/vehicle washing facilities are limited
to 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven (7) days a week. When abutting an R district,
the hours of operation shall be 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., seven (7) days a week
unless modified otherwise by a Conditional Use Permit.
   G.   Application Review and Findings for Approval. In reviewing proposals,
emphasis shall be placed on quality design of building materials and landscape
features. The following standards shall be incorporated:
      1.   The project shall be designed so that form and scale are harmonious
and consistent with the character of the specific site, the adjacent uses and
structures, and the surrounding neighborhood.
      2.   The site design, including the location and number of driveways,
shall promote safe and efficient on-site and off-site traffic circulation.
      3.   Service bay openings shall be designed to minimize the visual
intrusion on surrounding streets and properties.
      4.   Lighting shall be designed to be low-profile, indirect or diffused,
create a pleasing appearance, and avoid adverse impacts on surrounding uses.
   H.   Conditions of Approval. Conditions of approval of a Conditional Use
Permit may address operational characteristics of the use; impose restrictions
on outdoor storage and display, location of pump islands, canopies and service
bay openings; and/or require buffering, screening, lighting, planting areas, or
other site elements, in order to avoid adverse impacts on properties in the
surrounding area.
   I.   Abandonment. Any service station shall in the case of abandonment or
non-operation of the primary use be dismantled and the site cleared within
twelve (12) months subsequent to the close of the last business day. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
301.06: CROP CULTIVATION:
Commercial Crop Cultivation is allowed as an interim use in zones designated in
Series 200 of this chapter. Land use regulations as identified in Series 200
and elsewhere in this Code apply.
   A.   Purpose and Intent
      1.   It is the purpose and intent of this section to provide opportunity
for interim use of land within city limits until such time as the development
market supports the intended development of said lands.
      2.   Commercial crop cultivation can be allowed on an interim basis only
where the impacts of an agricultural operation will not be detrimental to the
health, safety, peace, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
surrounding area.
      3.   Crop cultivation allowed under the premises of this section is
secondary to its availability for urban development and should be available for
development as an urban use when market conditions improve for such a use.
      4.   Use of a subject site for crop cultivation for an interim period
does not result in the land being construed as an agricultural resource
requiring protection or preservation.
      5.   If residentially zoned, the land, regardless of the status of its
agricultural use, will be considered in the City’s Housing Element and the
Regional Housing Needs Assessment (RHNA) as available for residential use.
      6.   The key intent of this section is to limit the use to a time period
that is appropriate to the type of agricultural crop to be planted, to allow
sufficient time for a reasonable profit to be realized while assuring that the
use is interim in nature. At its discretion, the City Council may set time
periods to limit the use to a specific amount of time.
      7.   This section shall not be construed to apply to animal confinement.
   B.   Development Standards: Commercial crop cultivation allowed by this
section shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   The aerial application of fertilizers, pesticides, or other
agricultural treatments is not allowed.
      2.   Prior to the application of pesticides, fungicides, or insecticides,
notice will be given to all property owners within 300 feet of the parcel(s),
and notice shall be posted on site along every 100 feet of street frontage.
Notice shall be no smaller than 10" x 12" and with the word “Notice” in 80
point font.
      3.   A minimum twenty (20) foot wide drive aisle clearance shall be
maintained along all property boundaries.
      4.   The applicant/property owner shall not enter into a Williamson Act
contract or other agricultural preservation measure, whether for tax reduction
or other purposes.
      5.   A vector/rodent control plan shall be submitted and approved with
the conditional use permit and implemented for the term of the agricultural
use.
      6.   The applicant shall indemnify the City of Porterville to the
satisfaction of the City Attorney from and against any and all claims or legal
recourse resulting from the agricultural operation.
   C.   Considerations: The following factors will be considered on a project-
by-project basis to determine if commercial crop cultivation is an appropriate
use for a particular site. The Council may consider the following factors or
others as may be appropriate, based on the location of the proposed use and its
proximity to urban uses and may consider limiting some crop types due to
impacts of excessive noise, dust, vibration, odors or other effects on
surrounding uses.
      1.   No “Right to Farm” is conveyed or otherwise implied with the use.
      2.   The area to be farmed is of adequate size, dimension and topography
to accommodate the proposed use.
      3.   The burning of agricultural waste/trimmings/etc. on the property
will not create a public nuisance or a danger due to the close proximity of
urban uses.
      4.   On-site sale of crops is allowed in accordance with Subsection D,
“Sale of Agricultural Crops”, of this section.
      5.   The use does not involve the installation of underground storage
tanks.
      6.   Best Management Practices to reduce spray drift will be implemented.
      7.   Wells, as needed to serve the subject site, are subject to
California Department of Public Health Services approval and review of the City
Engineer.
      8.   Irrigation water run-off, if any, can be contained on site.
      9.   Use of municipal water for irrigation is prohibited.
      10.   The area shall be groomed of weeds and agricultural waste regularly
to reduce potential fire hazard, proliferation of pests, and unsightly
conditions.
      11.   Equipment and vehicles related to the active farming operation of
the site shall not be parked in the public right of way and vehicular
circulation related to the use shall occur on-site.
      12.   The applicant shall remove all abandoned crops upon discontinuation
of the use.
   D.   Sale of Agricultural Crops: The on-site sale of agricultural crops may
be considered by the City Council subject to the following criteria:
      1.   Sales from the site are seasonal in nature.
      2.   Sales are limited to those crops grown on site.
      3.   Sales booths have adequate parking and there is appropriate
surfacing for the parking area and drive aisle.
      4.   There is safe access to and from the site from the right of way.
      5.   The sales booth conforms to all requirements of the California
Building Code and the size of the booth is commensurate with the crop to be
sold, the size of the cultivation area and the length of the season, but shall
not exceed 500 square feet.
      6.   One 40 square foot sign is allowed as a wall sign or freestanding
sign not greater than twelve (12) feet in height. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.07: FAMILY DAYCARE HOME, LARGE:
Large Family Day Care Homes shall be located, developed, and operated in
compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Location. Large Family Day Care Homes shall be located at least three
hundred (300) feet apart in all directions from any other Large Family Day Care
Home.
   B.   Hours of Operation. Large Family Day Care Homes shall operate only
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. No outdoor
play is allowed before 9:00 a.m.
   C.   Residency. The operator of a Large Family Day Care Home shall be a
full-time resident of the dwelling unit in which the facility is located.
   D.   Screening. A periphery wall, constructed of wood or masonry, shall be
provided for purposes of securing outdoor play areas and screening the site and
shall achieve seventy-five (75) percent opacity. Chain metal fencing or barbed
wire is prohibited.
   E.   Signs. No sign shall be publicly displayed on the premises relating to
the Large Family Day Care Home.
   F.   Play Area. A minimum of seven hundred (700) square feet of play area is
required. An additional seventy-five (75) square feet is required for each
child in excess of ten (10), as shown by the maximum number of children which
may be cared for at any time, pursuant to the license for such a facility. The
play area shall not be located in any required front or side yard.
   G.   Parking and Loading. An operator of a Large Family Day Care Home shall
satisfy the following conditions:
      1.   Passenger Loading and Drop-off. A minimum of one (1) additional
improved off-street drop-off and pick-up parking space shall be provided.
      2.   Traffic. Increased traffic due to the operation of any Large Family
Day Care Home shall not cause traffic levels to exceed those levels customary
in residential neighborhoods. However, somewhat higher traffic levels during
the morning and evening commute time is acceptable. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.08: HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES:
All hazardous waste management facilities, except household hazardous waste
collection centers authorized by the City and the Tulare County Health
Department, shall be located, developed, and operated in compliance with the
following:
   A.   Application Content. Applications for hazardous waste management
facilities shall include the following:
      1.   Site Plan. A detailed site plan depicting all buildings, land uses,
storage areas, parking areas, and driveways internal and surrounding traffic
circulation. Occupancy type and rating for each building or structure shall be
identified.
      2.   Best Management Practices. Demonstrate and certify that they are
minimizing the generation of hazardous waste through the use of the best
available technology within their manufacturing, and/or product development
processes. Applicants shall also demonstrate and certify that facilities will
be using the best available control technology in minimizing air emissions and
processing hazardous waste. Such demonstration and certification shall be
provided prior to the issuance of any building permit or other land use
entitlement.
      3.   Waste Characteristics and Capacity. Identify the amounts (in tons)
and types of hazardous waste to be treated and stored; the duration of stored
waste on the facility site and the ultimate destination of the waste. The
owner-operator shall make this information available on a quarterly basis to
the City of Porterville on an on-going basis. If the application is for a
transfer station the applicant shall identify the capacity of the facility to
store each type of waste stream, service area(s) of the facility and ultimate
disposition of the waste.
      4.   Air Quality Analysis. An analysis of all anticipated air quality
impacts and proposed mitigation measures. The hazardous waste facility shall
comply with the rules and regulations of the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution
Control District.
      5.   Risk Assessment. A risk assessment which analyzes, in detail, all
probabilities of accidents or spills at the site, (including transportation
related) or accidents from the point of origin to the facility, and any other
risk assessment requested by either the City Manager, Zoning Administrator, or
the City Council. Such analyses shall identify mitigation measures to reduce
the identified risks. The risk assessment shall identify the most probable
routes for transporting hazardous wastes to and from the facility.
      6.   Alternatives Analysis. All applications shall contain an analysis of
alternative regional sites which shall be reviewed pursuant to the California
Environmental Quality Act.
      7.   Emergency Response Plan. An Emergency Response Plan that indicates
at a minimum:
         a.   That the proposed plan is consistent with any and all applicable
County and Regional Emergency Response Plans and all City, County, State and
Federal Regulatory requirements regarding Emergency Response Procedure.
         b.   Detailed procedures to be employed at the time of emergency for
each type of chemical substances utilized including contingency procedures.
         c.   Anticipated impacts on local fire, police, and medical services.
         d.   Names, home and business addresses, and home and business
telephone numbers of all management personnel at the facility, if known, and a
detailed description of uncontrolled release and emergency situation reporting
procedures.
      8.   Geotechnical Report. A geotechnical report providing complete
analysis of on-site soil conditions, fault hazards, underground water supplies,
and recommendations.
      9.   Flooding Information. An analysis of the potential of flooding on
the site. Note residual repositories are prohibited in areas of special flood
hazards as depicted by FEMA Flood Hazard Maps.
      10.   Traffic Analysis. Applicants shall submit a traffic analysis which
addresses, at a minimum, vehicle-truck trips, effects on nearby intersections,
and any special characteristics of the project site. Applicants shall also
identify the most likely transportation routes within the City and the County.
      11.   Closure Plan. The Owner/Operator of a hazardous waste facility
shall, prior to any local land use decision, submit to the Fire Department a
written Closure Plan approved by the California Department of Health Services.
All revisions to such Closure Plans shall also be submitted to the Fire
Department.
      12.   Safety. The Owner/Operator shall demonstrate that the separation
between the hazardous waste facility and residential areas is adequate to
protect the health, safety, welfare, and property values of residents.
   B.   Monitoring. At minimum, hazardous waste facilities are subject to the
following monitoring requirements:
      1.   Upon reasonable notice, and for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with all standards, conditions, and other requirements which the City is
authorized to enforce under its police power, City Officials or their
designated representatives may enter the premises on which a hazardous waste
facility permit has been granted.
      2.   The Owner/Operator of a facility shall report quarterly to the Fire
Chief the amount, type, and disposition of all wastes processed by the
facility. Included in the report shall be copies of all manifests showing the
delivery and types of hazardous wastes and include a map showing the exact
location (coordinates and elevation) of quantities and types of materials
placed in repositories or otherwise stored or disposed of on-site.
      3.   The Owner/Operator of a hazardous waste facility shall immediately
send copies of all complaints as to facility operations and copies of all
inspection reports made by other local, state or federal agencies to the Fire
Chief and City Engineer.
      4.   The Owner/Operator of all facilities shall prepare and submit an
Annual Emergency Response Preparedness Report to the Fire Department and all
other local emergency response agencies. Such report shall be signed by all
management personnel at the facility and each person at the facility who has
emergency response responsibilities.
      5.   The Owner/Operator of all facilities shall submit an annual Air,
Soil, and Groundwater Monitoring Report to the City Engineer.
   C.   Modifications. Any modifications of the types and quantities of
hazardous waste to be managed at the facility which were not included in the
approved application for a Conditional Use Permit shall be approved by the Fire
Chief and City Engineer before such modifications occur at the facility.
   D.   Contingency Plan. Every hazardous waste facility shall have a
contingency operation plan approved by the California Department of Health
Services. A copy of the contingency plan shall be maintained at the facility
and sent to the Police Department, Fire Department, Engineering Division, and
the County Department of Environmental Health.
   E.   Financial Assurance. Prior to issuance of an “Occupancy Permit” to
begin the use of a hazardous waste facility, the applicant shall show proof
that it has met all of the financial responsibility requirements imposed by the
California Department of Health Services and any other federal or state agency.
   F.   Indemnification. The applicant agrees to indemnify, defend, and render
harmless the City, and its City Council and all officers, employees and agents
of the City against and from all claims, actions and liabilities relating to
the land use decision or arising out of the operation of the facility.
   G.   Enforcement. All costs of compliance with this Ordinance shall be borne
by the Owner/Operator. The City may employ any and all methods permitted by law
to enforce this Ordinance.
   H.   Maintenance. The Owner/Operator shall keep all equipment and buildings
in good repair and shall employ technological advances as may be required by
the California Department of Health Services, San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution
Control District, or U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   I.   Findings. The following findings shall be made in writing prior to
making a land use decision which will allow the siting of a hazardous waste
facility project:
      1.   The project is consistent with the General Plan.
      2.   The project will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or
general welfare of the community.
      3.   The project will not significantly reduce incentives for waste
minimization by hazardous waste generators.
      4.   There are adequate City services available to service the project.
      5.   The project has met or exceeded each requirement of this Ordinance.
      6.   All environmental impacts identified in an Environmental Impact
Report or Negative Declaration as part of the permit process in compliance with
the California Environmental Quality Act have been adequately mitigated. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
301.09: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Home occupations that are carried on by an occupant of a dwelling unit for
gainful employment, are clearly incidental and subordinate to the use of the
structure for dwelling purposes and that do not change the residential
character of the primary use, are allowed and shall be operated in compliance
with the following standards. Home occupations are subject to zoning
conformance approval pursuant to Chapter 602, “Zoning Conformance Review”.
   A.   Permitted Uses. Home occupations generally include, but are not limited
to, the following uses:
      1.   Professional Offices.
      2.   Offices for personal services such as janitorial service, gardening
service, office services, etc.
      3.   Dressmaking, millinery, and other home sewing work.
      4.   Handicrafts such as weaving, leatherwork, and other arts and crafts.
      5.   Instructional classes, not exceeding two (2) students at one time.
      6.   Internet sales, mail order or direct sales provided no merchandise
is sold on the premises.
      7.   Cottage food operations.
   B.   Mobile Businesses. Service-oriented mobile businesses that provide
services at the location of a client may function as a home based business,
where compliant with all other provisions of this section and subject to the
following standards:
      1.   No business activities other than office activities occur on the
premises. A client may not come to the home of the business to use the mobile
unit.
      2.   The primary business activity involves provision of services that by
their nature are intermittent and convenient to be provided at the home or
business of the client. Examples include: mobile notary, personal services,
home repair, minor vehicle repair not involving engines as prohibited below
(windshield repair or battery replacement), and computer maintenance and
repair.
      3.   Sale of goods is permitted only as an accessory to the service-
oriented use, such as sale of windshield when it is replaced, or a new hard-
drive when it is required and installed as part of a computer repair.
   C.   Prohibited Uses. The following uses are not permitted as a home
occupation.
      1.   The repair, reconditioning, servicing or manufacture of any internal
combustion or diesel engine or of any motor vehicle, including automobiles,
trucks, motorcycles, or boats.
      2.   Repair, fix-it or plumbing, welding or fabrication shops where the
trade-work is done at the site of the home occupation.
      3.   Uses that entail the harboring, training, raising, or grooming of
dogs, cats or other animals on the premises.
      4.   Uses that entail food handling, processing or packing, other than
those permitted by cottage food operation.
      5.   Healing arts.
      6.   Spiritual advisory service (fortune-telling).
   D.   General Standards. The following restrictions apply to all home
occupations.
      1.   The residential use remains the primary activity on the property.
      2.   No sign shall be publicly displayed on the premises relating to the
home occupation or product thereof.
      3.   No person not residing on the premises may be employed at the site
of the home occupation.
      4.   Sale of goods on the premises shall be limited to the products of
the home occupations, and no other merchandise or goods shall be sold, kept or
displayed for the purposes of sale on the premises.
      5.   The home occupation shall not attract or generate excessive auto or
foot traffic, require additional off-street parking spaces, involve the use of
commercial vehicles for delivery of materials or supplies to or from the
premises, or exceed six (6) patrons or customers for any calendar day.
      6.   No use of materials, mechanical equipment, utilities, or community
facilities beyond that normal to the use of the property for residential
purposes shall be permitted.
      7.   Storage related to the home occupation shall be confined to the
dwelling or accessory building.
      8.   No dwelling or accessory buildings shall be built, altered,
finished, or decorated externally for the purposes of conducting the home
occupation in such a manner as to change the residential character and
appearance of the dwelling, or in such a manner as to cause the structure to be
reasonably recognized as a place where a home occupation is conducted.
      9.   No garage or accessory building shall be altered or used in such a
manner that would reduce the number of covered parking spaces required in the
district in which it is located.
      10.   Not more than one (1) vehicle of not more than one ton capacity
used in connection with the home occupation shall be kept on the site. Any
trailer, wheeled equipment, or any vehicle displaying or advertising the home
occupation shall not be visible from off the premises.
      11.   The home occupation shall not involve the use of power equipment on
the premises using motors exceeding one (1) horsepower combined capacity.
      12.   No equipment or process shall be used which creates noise,
vibration, glare, fumes, odor, or electrical interference detectable to the
normal senses off the lot if the occupation is conducted in a single-family
detached residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other than a
single-family detached residence. No equipment or process shall be used which
creates visual or audible electrical interference in any radio or television
receiver off the premises, or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the
premises.
   E.   Yard Sales. More than two yard sales per year, but not more than four
yard sales per year, may be permitted subject to issuance of a business license
and a home occupation permit subject to the following standards:
      1.   A Seller’s Permit must be obtained through the State Board of
Equalization prior to the date of the third yard sale.
      2.   The sales events must be compliant with the provisions of Section
301.21 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.10: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
Manufactured homes shall be designed and operated in compliance with the
following standards:
   A.   General Requirements. Manufactured homes may be used for residential
purposes subject to the provisions of this section. Manufactured homes may also
be used for temporary uses subject to the approval of a temporary Use Permit
(See Chapter 605, Temporary Use Permits).
   B.   Design Criteria. A manufactured home shall be compatible in design and
appearance with residential structures in the vicinity and shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Foundation. A manufactured home shall be built on a permanent
foundation system approved by the Building Official.
      2.   Date of Construction. Each manufactured home shall have been
manufactured within ten (10) years of the date of issuance of a permit to
install the manufactured home and shall be certified under the National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974.
      3.   Skirting. The unit’s skirting shall extend to the finished grade.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.11: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
Mobile home parks shall be located, developed, and operated in compliance with
the following standards:
   A.   Maximum Density. The maximum density is as allowed by the base zoning
district in which the mobile home park is located.
   B.   Access. Access to internal private streets is required for all mobile
home lots or spaces within the mobile home park. Direct access from a mobile
home lot or spaces to a public street or alley is not permitted. All points of
vehicular access to and from public streets shall be approved by the City
Engineer.
   C.   Internal Streets. All private internal streets within the mobile home
park shall not be less than thirty (30) feet in width and shall be surfaced and
maintained with an all-weather surface.
   D.   Parking. Each unit shall provide for at least two vehicle parking
spaces, one of which shall be covered.
   E.   Walls and Screening. Exterior boundaries of a mobile home park adjacent
to a public street frontage shall be screened with a six (6) foot high solid
wall setback twenty (20) feet from the property line. Such walls shall be
composed of decorative block, concrete panels or similar materials and include
architectural relief through variations in height, the use of architectural
“caps,” columns, or similar measures. Block walls shall match the standard
colors allowed in the City’s graffiti abatement program.
   F.   Common Open Space. Recreation, or common open spaces, shall be provided
for each mobile home park, or subdivision, in accordance with Section
201.04(b)(4) and (5). An area of at least three hundred (300) square feet for
each mobile home space shall be provided. This open space may be used in more
than one (1) location, but no location shall contain less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet in the aggregate. Each recreational space shall be
accessible to all of the mobile home spaces in the park, and shall not be used
for any other purpose.
   G.   Landscaping. Landscaping, as prescribed in Chapter 303: Landscaping, is
required for all common open space areas, exterior front and street side yards,
and common parking areas. A fifteen (15) foot landscaped buffer shall be
provided along streets adjoining the park.
   H.   Certification. All mobile homes shall be certified under the National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.12: OUTDOOR RETAIL SALES/DISPLAY:
   A.   Outdoor Retail Sales/Display. Outdoor display of merchandise is allowed
in association with an approved permanent use on the site, subject to Zoning
Administrator approval. Outdoor retail sales and display shall be located and
operated in compliance with the following standards:
      1.   Displayed merchandise shall occupy a specifically approved and
defined location that does not disrupt the normal function of the site or its
circulation. Displayed merchandise shall be located outside of any fire lane or
fire access way and shall not obstruct sight distances or otherwise create
hazards for vehicle or pedestrian traffic. Displayed merchandise shall not
encroach upon driveways, landscaped areas, private walkways or required parking
spaces.
      2.   Merchandise shall be located entirely on private property outside of
required setbacks except in Downtown Districts, where outdoor display is
allowed on the sidewalk directly adjacent to property if a pedestrian walkway
of at least six (6) feet is constantly maintained.
      3.   Display of merchandise shall not obstruct sight distances or
otherwise create hazards for vehicle or pedestrian traffic.
      4.   The Zoning Administrator may require landscaping, screening, paving
or other site improvements including the removal of obsolete or abandoned
facilities on nonconforming sites. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.13: PERSONAL STORAGE FACILITIES:
Personal Storage Facilities shall be located, developed, and operated in
compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Business Activity. All Personal Storage Facilities shall be limited to
the storage of inactive items such as furniture and files. No retail, repair,
or other commercial use shall be conducted out of the individual rental storage
units. No activities other than rental of storage units and pick-up and deposit
of storage shall be allowed on the premises. Examples of activities prohibited
in said facilities include, but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Auctions, commercial wholesale or retail sales, or miscellaneous
garage sales. Excepting auctions required by law to comply with lien sale
requirements. During the course of said lien sales, customer vehicles shall not
be allowed to obstruct travelways within the self-service storage facility.
      2.   The servicing, repair, or fabrication of motor vehicles, boats,
trailers, lawn mowers, appliances, or other similar equipment.
      3.   The operation of power tools, spray-painting equipment, table saws,
lathes, compressors, welding equipment, kilns, or other similar equipment.
      4.   Any use that is noxious or offensive because of odors, dust, noise,
fumes, or vibrations.
   B.   Notice to Tenants. As part of the rental process, the facility manager
shall inform all tenants of conditions restricting storage of hazardous
materials and limitation on the use of the storage units. These restrictions
shall be included in rental contracts and posted at a conspicuous location
within the front of each rental unit.
   C.   Size Limitations. Total lot coverage by any and all structures shall be
limited to fifty (50) percent of the total lot area.
   D.   Circulation. Driveway aisles shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet
wide.
   E.   Landscaping. A landscaped buffer with a minimum inside dimension of six
(6) feet shall be provided along the front and street property lines, except
for vehicular circulation openings. Additional landscaping may be required
where necessary to prevent visual impacts on adjacent properties. All
landscaped areas shall be bound by a concrete curb at least six (6) inches wide
and six (6) inches high and shall be permanently maintained in compliance with
Chapter 303, Landscaping.
   F.   Fencing. A six (6)- to seven (7)- foot high solid wall shall be
provided around the perimeter of the development at locations where the solid
facades of the storage structures do not provide a perimeter barrier. Such
walls shall be composed of decorative block, concrete panels or similar
materials and include architectural relief through variations in height, the
use of architectural “caps”, columns, or similar measures. Except in cases
where a property line of a personal storage facility abuts property zoned for
residential use, a chain link fence with solid privacy slats may be substituted
at the discretion of the zoning administrator. Block walls shall match the
standard colors allowed in the City’s graffiti abatement program.
   G.   Open Storage. Open storage, outside an enclosed building, shall be
limited to vehicles and trailers and screened from public view by building
facades or solid fences.
   H.   Outdoor Lighting. All outdoor lights shall be shielded to direct light
and glare only onto the personal storage premises and may be of sufficient
intensity to discourage vandalism and theft. Said lighting and glare shall be
deflected, shaded, and focused away from all adjoining property.
   I.   Portable Storage Buildings. Movable storage buildings shall be allowed
if they are constructed to appear as conventional storage buildings or are
located in an area completely screened from public view and adhere to all
applicable building and fire codes.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1097, 10-15-2024)
301.14: RECYCLING FACILITIES:
Recycling facilities shall be located and operated in compliance with the
following standards:
   A.   Reverse Vending Machines:
      1.   Accessory Use. Reverse vending machines shall be installed as an
accessory use to a permitted or conditionally permitted primary use on the same
site.
      2.   Location. Machines shall be located adjacent to the entrance of the
commercial host use and shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation.
      3.   Identification. Machines shall be clearly marked to identify the
type of material to be deposited, operating instructions, and the identity and
phone number of the operator or responsible person to call if the machine is
inoperative.
      4.   Signs. Machines shall have a maximum sign area of four (4) square
feet exclusive of operating instructions.
      5.   Lighting. Machines shall be illuminated to ensure comfortable and
safe operation between dawn and dusk.
      6.   Trash Receptacle. Machines shall provide a forty (40) gallon garbage
can for nonrecyclable materials located adjacent to the reverse vending
machine.
   B.   Recycling Collection Facilities:
      1.   Size. Recycling collection facilities shall not exceed a footprint
of three hundred fifty (350) square feet or include more than three (3) parking
spaces (not including space periodically needed for the removal or exchange of
materials or containers).
      2.   Equipment. No power-driven processing equipment, except for reverse
vending machines, may be used.
      3.   Location. Facilities shall not abut a residential district.
      4.   Setback. Facilities shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from
any street line and not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation.
      5.   Containers. Containers shall be constructed of durable waterproof
and rustproof material(s) and secured from unauthorized removal of material and
have capacity sufficient to accommodate materials collected in the collection
schedule.
      6.   Identification. Containers shall be clearly marked to identify the
type of accepted material, the name and telephone number of the facility
operator and the hours of operation.
      7.   Signs. Signs shall be a maximum of twenty (20) percent per side of
facility or container or sixteen (16) square feet, whichever is larger. In the
case of a wheeled facility, the side is measured from the pavement to the top
of the container. The Zoning Administrator may authorize increases in the
number, size and nature of additional signs.
      8.   Parking. Patrons and the attendant shall not reduce available
parking spaces below the minimum number required for the main use unless a
parking study shows available capacity during recycling facility operation.
      9.   Site Maintenance. Sites shall be maintained clean, sanitary, and
free of litter and any other undesirable materials.
   C.   Recycling Processing Facility:
      1.   Location. Facilities shall not abut a residential district or use.
      2.   Screening. The facility shall be screened from public rights-of-way,
by solid masonry walls or located within an enclosed structure.
      3.   Outdoor Storage. Exterior storage of material shall be in sturdy
containers or enclosures that are secured and maintained in good condition.
Storage shall not be visible above the height of the required solid masonry
walls.
      4.   Identification. Facilities shall be clearly marked with the name and
phone number of the facility operator and hours of operation. (Ord. 1866, 11-
19-2019)
301.15: RESERVED:
301.16: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
The following standards shall apply to detached accessory dwelling units,
attached accessory dwelling units, conversion accessory dwelling units, and
junior accessory dwelling units.
   A.   Development Standards
      1.   Foundation. A permanent foundation shall be required for all
accessory dwelling units.
      2.   Passageway. No passageway shall be required in conjunction with the
construction of an accessory dwelling unit.
      3.   Access. Every accessory dwelling unit shall have direct exterior
access independent of the exterior access of the primary dwelling.
      4.   Design. Accessory dwelling units shall be compatible with the
architectural style of the primary dwelling. No bare metal, unpainted or
unfinished structures are allowed. To determine architectural compatibility,
the accessory dwelling unit structure must possess at least three of the
following traits in common with the primary dwelling on-site:
         a.   Wall covering materials.
         b.   Wall color.
         c.   Roofing material.
         d.   Roofing pitch.
         e.   Structural eaves.
         f.   Mass and scale of structure relative to structural height.
         g.   Window characteristics (window shape, operational style, grids,
sills, trim).
      5.   Manufactured Homes. A manufactured home may be used as an accessory
dwelling unit provided it meets the standards for new detached accessory
dwelling units in this Section.
      6.   Fire Sprinklers. Fire sprinklers shall not be required in an
accessory dwelling unit if sprinklers are not required for the primary dwelling
(s). The construction of an accessory dwelling unit shall not trigger a
requirement for fire sprinklers to be installed in an existing single-family or
multifamily dwelling.
      7.   Utility Connection. All accessory dwelling units shall be connected
to public utilities or their equivalent, including water, electric, and sewer
services, a. No separate connection between the accessory dwelling unit and the
utility shall be required for units created within a single-family dwelling,
unless the accessory dwelling unit is being constructed in connection with a
new single-family dwelling.
      8.   Garage conversion. When a garage or other accessory structure
providing off-street parking is converted to an accessory dwelling unit, the
City shall not mandate removal of the existing driveway and related approach.
   B.   Occupancy and Conveyance Requirements
      1.   Long-Term Rentals Only. Rental of the accessory dwelling unit
created pursuant to this section shall be for a term longer than thirty (30)
days.
      2.   Sale and Conveyance. An accessory dwelling unit may be sold or
conveyed separately from the primary residence to a qualified buyer if all the
requirements of Government Code section 66431 are met.
   C.   Detached Accessory Dwelling Units
      1.   Location. Detached accessory dwelling units must be accompanied by a
proposed or existing single-family or multifamily dwelling. An existing
dwelling on-site may be classified as the detached accessory dwelling unit upon
construction and occupation of a proposed dwelling on-site. Detached accessory
dwelling units may be located in an existing accessory structure.
      2.   Maximum Number of Detached Accessory Dwelling Units
         a.   When accompanied by a proposed or existing single-family
dwelling, the maximum number of detached accessory dwelling units shall be one.
The detached accessory dwelling unit may be in addition to an existing or
proposed attached accessory dwelling unit and an existing or proposed junior
accessory dwelling unit.
         b.   When accompanied by a proposed multi-family dwelling, the maximum
number of detached accessory dwelling units shall be two (2) per lot.
         c.   When accompanied by an existing multi-family dwelling, the
maximum number of detached accessory dwelling units shall be eight (8) per lot.
         d.   In no case shall the total number of primary dwelling and
accessory dwelling units exceed four on any given lot zoned for single-family
residential uses.
      3.   Floor Area
         a.   The minimum floor area shall be 150 square feet, or the
equivalent of an efficiency unit, whichever is greater.
         b.   When accompanied by an existing or proposed single-family
dwelling, the maximum floor area shall be no more than 1,200 square feet.
         c.   When an existing accessory structure is converted to a detached
accessory dwelling unit, the maximum square feet may exceed 1,200 square feet
to an amount equal to the square footage of the existing accessory structure to
be converted.
      4.   Minimum Setbacks. The minimum side, street side, and rear yard
setback shall be four (4) feet, except when converting or replacing an existing
accessory structure that is less than four (4) feet from the side, street side,
or rear yard. Detached accessory dwelling units are not required to be detached
from each other but must be detached from the multifamily dwelling.
      5.   Maximum Height. The maximum height of detached accessory dwelling
units shall be as follows:
         a.   For one-story detached accessory dwelling units, the maximum
height shall be sixteen (16) feet. Where the detached accessory dwelling unit
is located within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of a major transit stop
or a high-quality transit corridor, as defined in Section 21155 of the
California Public Resources Code, or with an existing or proposed multifamily
dwelling of more than one-story, the maximum height shall be eighteen (18)
feet.
         b.   For two-story detached accessory dwelling units, the maximum
height shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
         c.   Height Exceptions.
            (1)   An additional two (2) feet in height shall be allowed to
accommodate a roof pitch on an accessory dwelling unit that is aligned with the
roof pitch of the primary dwelling unit.
            (2)   When an existing accessory structure is converted to a
detached accessory dwelling unit, the maximum height may exceed the limits of
Section 9.195.050, subsection (E)(1) to an amount equal to the height of the
existing accessory structure to be converted.
      6.   Parking. One (1) parking space shall be required for use by the
detached accessory dwelling unit in addition to the minimum parking required
for the primary single-family or multifamily dwelling(s). The surface of the
parking space shall be improved and may be covered or uncovered. No parking
shall be required in any of the following circumstances:
         a.   The detached accessory dwelling unit is located within one- half
(1/2) mile walking distance of public transit.
         b.   The detached accessory dwelling unit is located within an
architecturally and historically significant historic district.
         c.   The detached accessory dwelling unit is converting an existing
accessory structure.
         d.   On-street parking permits are required but not offered to the
occupant of the detached accessory dwelling unit.
         e.   There is a car share vehicle located within one block of the
detached accessory dwelling unit.
      7.   Occupancy. If permitted after January 1, 2025, owner-occupancy shall
be required in the primary dwelling or the newly created detached accessory
dwelling unit. Owner-occupancy shall not be required if the owner is another
governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization.
      8.   Development Standards. Detached accessory dwelling units shall
comply with all applicable base zone district development standards, including
lot coverage, floor area ratio, open space, front setbacks, and minimum lot
size, unless application of any one or more of these standards precludes
construction of at least an 800 square foot detached accessory dwelling unit.
   D.   Attached Accessory Dwelling Units
      1.   Location. Attached accessory dwelling units must be accompanied by a
proposed or existing single-family or multifamily dwelling.
      2.   Maximum Number of Detached Accessory Dwelling Units
         a.   When accompanied by a proposed or existing single-family
dwelling, the maximum number of attached accessory dwelling units shall be one
(1). The attached accessory dwelling unit may be in addition to an existing or
proposed detached accessory dwelling unit and an existing or proposed junior
accessory dwelling unit.
         b.   In no case shall the total number of primary dwelling and
accessory dwelling units exceed four (4) on any given lot zoned for single-
family residential uses.
      3.   Floor Area.
         a.   The minimum floor area shall be 150 square feet, or the
equivalent of an efficiency unit, whichever is greater.
         b.   The maximum floor area shall be fifty percent (50%) of the
primary dwelling unit floor area, or 1,200 square feet, whichever is greater.
      4.   Minimum Setbacks. The minimum side, street side, and rear yard
setback shall be four (4) feet, except when converting or replacing an existing
accessory structure that is less than four (4) feet from the side, street side,
or rear yard.
      5.   Maximum Height. The maximum height of attached accessory dwelling
units shall be two stories and twenty-five (25) feet or the maximum height
specified by the base zone district, whichever is lower.
      6.   Parking. No parking shall be required for the attached accessory
dwelling unit.
      7.   Occupancy. If permitted after January 1, 2025, owner-occupancy shall
be required in either the remaining portion of the primary dwelling or the
newly created attached accessory dwelling unit. Owner-occupancy shall not be
required if the owner is another governmental agency, land trust, or housing
organization.
      8.   Development Standards. Attached accessory dwelling units shall
comply with all applicable base zone district development standards, including
lot coverage, floor area ratio, open space, front setbacks, and minimum lot
size, unless application of any one or more of these standards precludes
construction of at least an 800 square foot attached accessory dwelling unit.
   E.   Conversion Accessory Dwelling Units
      1.   Location. Conversion accessory dwelling units are permitted within
the portions of existing multifamily dwelling structures that are not used as
livable space, including, but not limited to, storage rooms, boiler rooms,
passageways, attics, basements, or garages, if each unit complies with state
building standards for dwellings.
      2.   Maximum Number of Conversion Accessory Dwelling Units. The maximum
number of conversion accessory dwelling units allowed shall be no more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the number of existing or proposed multifamily
units. However, in no case shall less than one conversion accessory dwelling
unit be allowed.
      3.   Floor Area.
         a.   The minimum floor area shall be 150 square feet, or the
equivalent of an efficiency unit, whichever is greater.
         b.   The maximum floor area shall be fifty percent (50%) of the
primary dwelling unit floor area, or 1,200 square feet, whichever is greater.
      4.   Minimum Setbacks. The minimum side, street side, and rear yard
setback shall be four (4) feet, except when converting or replacing an existing
accessory structure that is less than four (4) feet from the side, street side,
or rear yard.
      5.   Parking. No additional parking shall be required.
   F.   Junior Accessory Dwelling Units.
      1.   Location. Junior accessory dwelling units must be accompanied by a
proposed or existing single-family dwelling on a lot zoned for single-family
use. A junior accessory dwelling unit must be located within the walls of the
primary single-family dwelling, including but not limited to, an attached
garage.
      2.   Maximum Number of Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
         a.   When accompanied by a proposed or existing single-family
dwelling, the maximum number of junior accessory dwelling units shall be one.
The junior accessory dwelling unit may be in addition to an existing or
proposed detached accessory dwelling unit and an existing or proposed attached
accessory dwelling unit.
         b.   In no case shall the total number of primary dwelling and
accessory dwelling units exceed four on any given lot zoned for single-family
residential uses.
      3.   Floor Area
         a.   The minimum floor area shall be 150 square feet, or the
equivalent of an efficiency unit, whichever is greater.
         b.   The maximum floor area shall be 500 square feet.
      4.   Parking. No parking shall be required for the junior accessory
dwelling unit.
      5.   Exterior Access. Access shall be provided to the junior accessory
dwelling unit independent from the primary dwelling.
      6.   Sanitation Facilities. Sanitation facilities may be separate or
shared with the primary dwelling. If shared with the primary dwelling, the
junior accessory dwelling unit shall provide an interior entry to the living
area of the primary dwelling, separate from the exterior access required to the
junior accessory dwelling unit.
      7.   Kitchen Features. An efficiency kitchen shall be provided, including
the following minimum features:
         a.   A cooktop, refrigerator, and compact sink. A removable hot plate
may be considered a cooktop for purposes of this requirement. Appliances shall
require no more than a 120-volt electrical connection.
         b.   Food preparation counter space of a minimum twenty-four (24)
inches in width and a minimum of one (1) food storage cabinet of a minimum
twenty-four (24) inches in width.
      8.   Occupancy. Owner-occupancy shall be required in either the remaining
portion of the primary dwelling or the newly created junior accessory dwelling
unit. Owner-occupancy shall not be required if the owner is another
governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization.
      9.   Deed Restriction. A deed restriction shall be recorded on the
property which shall run with the land, and a copy of which shall be provided
to the planning department. The deed restriction shall include both of the
following:
         a.   A prohibition on the sale of the junior accessory dwelling unit
separate from the sale of the single-family dwelling, including a statement
that the deed restriction may be enforced against future purchasers.
         b.   A restriction on the size and attributes of the junior accessory
dwelling unit that conforms with this section.
(Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
301.17: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Purpose and Intent:
      1.   It is the purpose and intent of this section to regulate sexually
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses. The provisions of
this section have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this section
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected
by the first amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this section to condone or legitimatize the distribution
of obscene material.
      2.   One of the important purposes of the regulations set forth in this
section is to discourage and to minimize the opportunity for criminal conduct.
As such, nothing in this section shall permit or be interpreted to permit any
use, conduct, and/or activity which is specifically prohibited under the
following California Penal Code sections:
         a.   Receipt of money for placement of person for purposes of
cohabitation (Penal Code section 266d);
         b.   Purchase of person for purposes of prostitution or placement of
person for immoral purposes (Penal Code section 266e);
         c.   Sale of person for immoral purposes (Penal Code section 266f);
         d.   Pimping (Penal Code section 266h);
         e.   Pandering (Penal Code section 266i);
         f.   Lewd or obscene conduct (Penal Code section 314);
         g.   Houses of ill fame (Penal Code section 315);
         h.   Disorderly houses which disturb the immediate neighborhood (Penal
Code section 316);
         i.   Places of prostitution (Penal Code section 317); and
         j.   Place of prostitution; place of lewdness; place used as bathhouse
permitting conduct capable of transmitting AIDS (Penal Code section 11225).
      3.   Nothing in this section shall permit, or be interpreted to permit
any use, conduct, and/or activity which violates any federal, state or local
law of regulation.
   B.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, certain terms and words
are defined as follows:
               A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented business, regardless
EMPLOYEE:      of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the
               operation of said business.
               Includes any of the following:
               a.   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
               b.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually oriented
ESTABLISHMENT: business, to any of the “sexually oriented businesses” defined in this section;
               c.   The addition of any of the “sexually oriented businesses” defined in this
               section to any other existing sexually oriented business;
               d.   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business; or
               e.   The substantial enlargement of any such sexually oriented business.
NUDITY OR      a.   The appearance or display of human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
STATE OF       genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
NUDITY:        b.   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human buttock, anus,
               male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female breast.
OPERATOR:      Includes the owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or person in charge
               of any permitted or licensed premises.
PERMITTED OR   Any premises that requires a license and/or permit that is classified as a sexually
UNLICENSED     oriented business.
PREMISES:
PERMITTEE AND/ A person in whose name a permit and/or license to operate a sexually oriented
OR LICENSEE:   business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on the
               application for a permit and/or license.
PERSON:        An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association or other legal
               entity.
PUBLIC         Any building owned, leased or held by the United States, the state, the county, the
BUILDING       city, any special district, school district, or any other agency or political
REGULARLY      subdivision of the state or the United States, which building is used as a library,
FREQUENTED BY  community center, children’s center, or any other use having special attraction to
CHILDREN:      children, or which building is often visited by children for social activities
               unaccompanied by their parents or other adult custodian.
               Public land which has been designated for park or recreational activities including,
PUBLIC PARK OR but not limited to, a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir,
RECREATION     athletic field, basketball or tennis courts, open space wilderness areas, or similar
AREA:          public land within the city which is under the control, operation, or management of
               the city park and recreation authorities.
RELIGIOUS      Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is primarily used for
INSTITUTION:   religious worship and related religious activities, as identified on the latest
               equalized tax roll.
               Any public or private educational facility including, but not limited to, nursery
               schools, preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate
SCHOOL:        schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
               secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges,
               and universities. School includes the school grounds, but does not include the
               facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a school.
               A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals, pubic region and
SEMINUDE:      areolae of the female breasts, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting
               straps or devices.
SENSITIVE USE: Any cemetery; religious institution; school; public building regularly frequented by
               children; public park; or boys’ club, girls’ club, or similar youth organization.
               Those businesses defined as follows:
               a.   Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or more
               still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar machines, or other
               image producing machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each, are regularly
               available or used to show films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
               photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
               specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
               b.   Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Store Or Adult Video Store: A commercial
               establishment which: 1) has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in
               trade; or 2) derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues; or 3)
               devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior floor or display space;
               or 4) devotes a significant or substantial portion of its business activities or
               employees’ time, or advertising, to the sale, rental or viewing for any form of
               consideration, of any one or more of the following:
                  (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
               films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other visual representations which
               are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
               specified anatomical areas;
                  (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
               connection with specified sexual activities;
                  (3)   An establishment may have other significant or substantial business purposes
               that do not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials, depicting
               or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, and still be
               categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store. Such other
               business purposes will not serve to exempt such establishments from being categorized
               as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store so long as one of its
               significant or substantial business purposes is offering for sale or rental, for some
               form of consideration, the specified materials which depict or describe specified
               anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
               c.   Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, “bottle club”, or similar
               commercial establishment, which regularly features: 1) live performances which are
               characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas, or by specified sexual
               activities; or 2) films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
               photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
               specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
               d.   Adult Model Studio: Any place where a person who displays specified anatomical
               areas or who engages in specified sexual activities is provided for money or any form
               of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed,
               or similarly depicted by other persons. This term does not include a modeling class
               operated by a proprietary school, licensed by the state of California; a college,
               junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; by a private
SEXUALLY       college or university which maintains and operates educational programs in which
ORIENTED       credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or university supported
BUSINESSES     entirely or partly by taxation; or in a structure which has no sign visible from the
(ADULT         exterior of the structure and no other advertising that indicates a nude person is
ORIENTED       available for viewing, where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
BUSINESSES):   at least three (3) days in advance of the class, and where no more than one nude
               model is on the premises at any one time.
               e.   Adult Motel: A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which: 1) offers
               public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and which regularly provides or
               makes available to patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films,
               motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
               characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
               specified anatomical areas and which advertises the availability of this sexually
               oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the public right of way, or
               by means of any off premises advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers,
               magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television; or 2) offers a sleeping room
               for rent for a period of time less than ten (10) hours; or 3) allows a tenant or
               occupant to rent or subrent the sleeping room for a time period of less than ten (10)
               hours.
               f.   Adult Motion Picture Theater: A commercial establishment where films, motion
               pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions depicting or
               describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly
               shown for any form of consideration.
               g.   Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
               establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features live
               performances which are characterized by exposure of specified anatomical areas or by
               specified sexual activities.
               h.   Regularly Features Or Regularly Shown: With respect to an adult cabaret, adult
               theater, or adult motion picture theater means a regular and substantial course of
               conduct. The fact that a live performance or film which is distinguished or
               characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified anatomical areas or
               specified sexual activities is exhibited on two (2) or more occasions within a thirty
               (30) day period; three (3) or more occasions within a sixty (60) day period; or four
               (4) or more occasions within a one hundred eighty (180) day period, shall to the
               extent permitted by law be deemed to be a regular and substantial course of conduct.
               i.   Significant Or Substantial Portion: Such a percentage of its activities, space
               allocation, revenues, advertising targeting, stock in trade, floor or display space,
               business receipts, revenues, or other business undertakings as to indicate to a
               reasonable person that a sexually oriented portion of the business is one of its
               important activities, though not necessarily its only or even primary activity; for
               this purpose, evidence that twenty five percent (25%) or more of its revenue is
               derived from such sexually oriented activities or materials, or that twenty five
               percent (25%) or more of its interior floor space or display space is devoted to such
               sexually oriented activities or materials, or that twenty five percent (25%) or more
               of its actual stock in trade regularly displayed and immediately available for use,
               rental, purchase, viewing or perusal is comprised of such sexually oriented
               materials, all as defined in this subsection, shall be evidence that a “significant
               or substantial portion” of the business is devoted to such uses.
               As used in this section, means and includes any of the following:
SPECIFIED      a.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
ANATOMICAL     buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
AREAS:         areolae; or
               b.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and
               opaquely covered.
               As used in this section, means and includes any of the following:
               a.   The fondling or other intentional touching of buttocks for purpose of sexual
               arousal, or fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic region,
SPECIFIED      anus, or female breasts;
SEXUAL         b.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
ACTIVITIES:    copulation, or sodomy;
               c.   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
               d.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
               e.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities set
               forth in subparagraphs a through d of this definition.
SUBSTANTIAL
ENLARGEMENT OF An increase in the floor areas occupied by the business as the floor areas existed on
A SEXUALLY     the effective date hereof.
ORIENTED
BUSINESS:
TRANSFER OF    Includes any of the following:
OWNERSHIP OR   a.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
CONTROL OF A
SEXUALLY       b.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in the
ORIENTED       business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means.
BUSINESS:
 
   C.   Establishment And Classification Of Businesses Regulated: The
establishment of any sexually oriented business shall be permitted only in
those particular specified districts where such uses are permitted, and shall
be subject to the following restrictions: No person shall cause or permit the
establishment of any “sexually oriented businesses”, as defined in subsection
(b) of this section, within six hundred (600) feet of another such business or
within one thousand (1,000) feet of any sensitive use. These limitations apply
to sexually oriented businesses classified as follows:
      1.   Adult arcade.
      2.   Adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store.
      3.   Adult cabaret.
      4.   Adult model studio.
      5.   Adult motel.
      6.   Adult motion picture theater.
      7.   Adult theater.
   D.   Measurement Of Distance: Distance between any two (2) sexually oriented
businesses or between a sexually oriented business and a sensitive use shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from
property line to property line.
   E.   Location of Sexually Oriented Business: Sexually oriented businesses
shall be allowed only in districts in which such uses are specifically
permitted. Permits for sexually oriented businesses shall be required and
governed by the procedures and policies specified in the city of Porterville
municipal code. In addition, any sexually oriented business shall be subject to
the following restrictions:
      1.   The person commits a misdemeanor, if he operates or causes to be
operated, a sexually oriented business outside of the permitted districts.
      2.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand (1,000) feet of any
sensitive use.
      3.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within six hundred (600) feet of another
such business, which will include, any adult arcade, adult book store, adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, or adult modeling studio.
   F.   Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Permitted To Continue: Any sexually oriented business operating on
the effective date hereof that is in violation of subsections (c) through (e)
of this section shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Such nonconforming uses
shall be governed by the provisions of this code. If two (2) or more sexually
oriented businesses are within six hundred (600) feet of one another and
otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was
first established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later established business(es) is nonconforming.
   G.   Injunction: A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business without having a valid permit due to location restrictions is
subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for the misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or one hundred
eighty (180) days’ imprisonment, or by both such fine and imprisonment. If an
injunction is sought and granted, the sexually oriented business shall be
obligated to pay the city attorney fees and costs of the city, at the
discretion of the court.
   H.   Exception For Certain Nude Modeling: It is a defense to prosecution
under this section if a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a
modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of California; a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation; or
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one (1) nude model is on the premises at any
one (1) time. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.18: SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY HOTELS:
Single Room Occupancy (SRO) Hotels shall be located, developed, and operated in
compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Maximum Occupancy. Each SRO living unit shall be designed to
accommodate a maximum of two (2) persons.
   B.   Minimum Size. An SRO living unit shall have at least one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of floor area, excluding closet and bathroom. No individual
unit may exceed four hundred (400) square feet.
   C.   Minimum Width. An SRO of one (1) room shall not be less than twelve
(12) feet in width.
   D.   Entrances. All SRO units shall be independently accessible from a
single main entry, excluding emergency and other service support exits.
   E.   Cooking Facilities. Cooking facilities shall be provided either in
individual units or in a community kitchen. Where cooking is in individual SRO
units, SRO units shall have a sink with hot and cold water; a counter with
dedicated electrical outlets and a microwave oven or properly engineered cook
top unit pursuant to Building Code requirements; a refrigerator; and cabinets
for storage. Where cooking facilities are in a community kitchen, the community
kitchen shall be a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) square feet and designed
to provide a minimum of two (2) linear feet of counter space for fifty (50)
percent of the maximum number of tenants.
   F.   Bathrooms. SRO units shall have individual bathrooms containing a sink,
a toilet, and a shower or bath per Housing and Building Code requirements.
Units may have only one (1) sink by the cooking area and may omit the bathroom
sink.
   G.   Lobby/Meeting Area. Each SRO building shall provide ample ground floor
entry area that provides a central focus for tenant social interaction and
meetings. The lobby/meeting area shall be designed to accommodate at least
twenty-five (25) percent of the tenants at one (1) time using an average of
fifteen (15) square feet per person and a minimum four hundred (400) square
feet for up to fifty (50) SRO units, excluding janitorial storage, laundry
facilities, and hallways.
   H.   Ground Floor Use. Ground floor area next to public right-of-ways shall
be dedicated for public use such as lobby/meeting areas or resident-serving
commercial uses. No SRO units shall be on the street level adjacent to the
public right-of-ways. If any SRO units are at ground level, they shall face
into a private open area such as an interior courtyard.
   I.   Management Plan. A management plan shall be submitted with the permit
application for all SRO projects. At minimum, the management plan shall include
the following:
      1.   Security/Safety. Proposed security and safety features such as
lighting, security cameras, defensible space, central access, and user
surveillance;
      2.   Management Policies. Management policies including desk service,
visitation rights, occupancy restrictions, and use of cooking appliance;
      3.   Rental Procedures. All rental procedures, including weekly and
monthly tenancy requirements;
      4.   Staffing and Services. Information regarding all support services,
such as job referral and social programs; and
      5.   Maintenance. Maintenance provisions, including sidewalk cleaning and
litter control, recycling programs, general upkeep, and the use of durable
materials. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.19: SOCIAL SERVICE FACILITIES:
Social Service Facilities shall be located, developed, and operated in
compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Location. Social Service Facilities are not allowed on Main Street.
   B.   Minimum Standards. Social service facilities shall only be subject to
the following written, objective standards:
      1.   Waiting and Client Intake Areas. Outdoor waiting areas may not be
located in the public right-of-way, must be physically separated from the
public right- of-way, and must be large enough to accommodate the expected
number of clients. An indoor waiting area must be provided.
      2.   Separation Requirements. Emergency shelters shall be located no
closer than 300 feet from another emergency shelter.
      3.   On-Site Management. Continuous on-site supervision during hours of
operation shall be provided. Specifically, there shall be a minimum of one
staff person per eight clients during daytime hours, 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.,
and a minimum of two (2) staff people at the facility during nighttime hours,
9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
      4.   Maximum Length of Stay. Occupancy for an individual in an emergency
shelter is limited to no more than six (6) months. The operator of the
emergency shelter shall maintain adequate documentation to demonstrate
compliance with this provision.
      5.   Security. The facility shall have on-site security personnel during
all hours when the shelter is in operation, and at all times when shelter
clients are present on site.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
301.20: TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose. The specific purposes of this chapter are to:
      1.   To permit the siting, construction, operation and maintenance of
wireless telecommunications towers and antennas within the City’s boundaries;
      2.   To protect and promote the public health, safety, general welfare
and quality of life within the City by regulating the siting of wireless
telecommunications towers and antennas, while preserving the rights of wireless
telecommunications providers;
      3.   To establish guidelines for the governance of wireless
telecommunications facilities which recognize the unique land use distribution,
topography, and aesthetics of the community;
      4.   Protect residential areas and land uses from visual blight, safety
impacts associated with attractive nuisance, and degradation of residential
character;
      5.   Promote the location of towers in non-residential areas;
      6.   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      7.   Establish the joint use of new and existing tower sites as a primary
option rather than construction of single-use towers;
      8.   Locate towers and antennas in areas where the overall impact on the
community is minimal, now and in the future; to configure them in a way that
minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through careful
design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging techniques;
      9.   Enhance the ability of providers of wireless telecommunications
services to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively and
efficiently;
      10.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures;
      11.   Create and preserve telecommunication facilities that will serve as
an important and effective part of the City’s emergency response network; and
      12.   Promote fair and effective wireless telecommunication services and
ensure that a broad range of competitive telecommunications services with high
quality telecommunications infrastructure are available to serve the community.
   B.   Applicability. Towers and antennas shall be regulated and permitted
pursuant to this chapter and shall not be regulated or permitted as essential
services, public utilities, or private utilities. This chapter shall apply, to
the fullest extent allowed by and consistent with applicable Federal, State,
and California Public Utility laws and regulations, to all new wireless towers
and facilities, including towers and antennas proposed to be located on private
or public property, except for the following:
      1.   Amateur Radio Station Operators. Any tower, or the installation of
any antenna, that is under the height limitation of the relevant district and
is owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator.
      2.   Receive Only Antennas. A single ground or building-mounted receive-
only radio or television antenna not exceeding the maximum height permitted by
this Ordinance, including any mast, or a receive-only radio or television
satellite dish antenna, subject to the following restrictions:
      3.   Residential Districts:
         a.   Satellite Dish One (1) Meter or Less. A satellite dish that does
not exceed one (1) meter in diameter or the height of the ridgeline of the
primary structure on the same parcel, and is for the sole use of a resident
occupying the parcel.
         b.   Satellite Dish Greater than One (1) Meter. A satellite dish that
is greater than one (1) meter in diameter, is not located within a required
front or street side yard, and is screened from view from any public right-of-
way and adjoining property.
         c.   Antennas. An antenna that is mounted on any existing building or
other structure that does not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in height, and is
for the sole use of a resident occupying the parcel.
      4.   Commercial and Employment Districts
         a.   Satellite Dish Two (2) Meters or Less. A satellite dish that does
not exceed two (2) meters in diameter so long as the location does not reduce
required parking, diminish pedestrian or vehicular access, or require removal
of landscaping maintained as a condition of project approval.
         b.   Satellite Dish Greater than Two (2) Meters. A satellite dish that
is greater than two (2) meters in diameter that is not located within a
required front yard or street side yard and is screened from view from any
public right-of-way and adjoining property.
         c.   Mounted Antennas. An antenna that is mounted on any existing
building or other structure when the overall height of the antenna and its
supporting tower, pole or mast does not exceed a height of thirty (30) feet or
twenty-five (25) feet if located within twenty (20) feet of a Residential
district.
         d.   Free-Standing Antennas. A free standing antenna and its
supporting tower, pole, or mast that complies with all applicable setbacks when
the overall height of the antenna and its supporting structure does not exceed
a height of thirty (30) feet or twenty-five (25) feet if located within twenty
(20) feet of a Residential district.
         e.   Undergrounding Required. All wires and/or cables necessary for
operation of an antenna shall be placed underground or attached flush with the
surface of the building or the structure of the antenna.
      5.   Pre-existing Towers or Antennas. Pre-existing towers and pre-
existing antennas in full compliance with applicable regulations in effect at
the time of construction shall not be required to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
      6.   Public Safety Broadcasting. Any non-commercial satellite dish
antenna utilized for public safety broadcasting.
   C.   General Requirements:
      1.   Permit Requirements:
         a.   Camouflage Facilities: Permitted by right in all allowed
districts.
         b.   Co-located Facilities: Permitted by right in allowed districts
when proposed to be co-located on a facility that was subject to a
discretionary permit issued on or after January 1, 2007 and that contemplated
co-location.
         c.   Non-Camouflage Facilities: Allowed in certain districts subject
to Conditional Use Permit approval when located at least three hundred (300)
feet from any R District.
      2.   State or Federal Requirements. All towers and antennas shall meet or
exceed current standards and regulations of the FCC, the FAA, and any other
agency of the State or Federal government with the authority to regulate towers
and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of
the towers and antennas governed by this chapter shall bring such towers and
antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six
(6) months of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a
different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling State or Federal
agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner’s expense.
      3.   Building Codes and Safety Standards. To ensure the structural
integrity of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in applicable State or local building codes
and the applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic
Industries Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the
City concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitute a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such
tower into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such tower into
compliance within said thirty (30) days shall constitute grounds for the
removal of the tower or antenna at the owner’s expense.
      4.   Multiple Antenna/Tower Plan. The City encourages the users of towers
and antennas to submit a single application for approval of multiple towers
and/or antenna sites. Applications for multiple sites shall be given priority
in the review process, in compliance with the Permit Streamlining Act.
   D.   Minimum Application Requirements: In addition to meeting the standard
application submittal requirements for permits specified in Chapter 601, Common
Procedures, applications for wireless telecommunications facilities pursuant to
this chapter shall include the following:
      1.   Inventory of Existing Sites. Each applicant for an antenna and/or
tower shall provide to the Zoning Administrator an inventory of its existing
towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers or antennas, that are either
within the City limits or urban area boundary (UAB), including specific
information about the location, height, and design of each tower. The Zoning
Administrator may share such information with other applicants applying for
administrative approvals or Conditional Use Permits under this chapter or other
organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the City,
provided, however, that the Zoning Administrator is not, by sharing such
information, in any way representing or warranting that such sites are
available or suitable.
      2.   Copies of all applicable licenses or other approvals required by the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the California Public Utilities
Commission (PUC), and any other Federal or State government with authority to
regulate telecommunications facilities including documentation of compliance
with all conditions imposed in conjunction with such licenses or approvals.
      3.   Written certification of compliance with all applicable FCC
requirements and standards.
      4.   Site plan and elevations drawn to scale. Elevations shall include
all structures on which facilities are proposed to be located.
      5.   Description of proposed approach for screening all facilities from
public view including plans for installation and maintenance of landscaping and
sample exterior materials and colors.
      6.   Written authorization from the landowner in the event the applicant
does not own the subject property
      7.   Any other information the Zoning Administrator deems necessary in
order to process the application in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. This may include, but is not limited to, a visual analysis of the
proposed project.
   E.   Location and Siting
      1.   Wireless telecommunication facilities shall be located in the
following order of preference:
         a.   Integrated into building/structure design (camouflage sites).
         b.   Co-located with other major wireless telecommunication
facilities.
         c.   On existing structures such as buildings, communication towers,
or utility facilities not subject to the City’s franchise agreements.
         d.   On existing signal, power, light or similar kinds of permanent
poles.
         e.   In Employment Districts.
         f.   In Commercial Districts.
      2.   Wireless telecommunication facilities shall be located where the
existing topography, vegetation, building or other structures provide the
greatest amount of screening. Where insufficient screening exists, applicants
shall provide screening satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator, or as
otherwise required through the approval of a Conditional Use Permit.
      3.   Ground-mounted wireless telecommunication facilities shall be
located only in close proximity to existing above-ground utilities, such as
permanent electrical towers, light poles, trees of comparable heights, and in
areas where they will not detract from the appearance of the City. If located
within a public right of way, ground-mounted equipment shall be installed
underground unless deemed infeasible by the Building Official. In such case,
ground-mounted equipment shall be screened to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Administrator.
      4.   Required Separation. For the purposes of this section, all distances
shall be measured in a straight line without regard to intervening structures,
from the nearest point of the proposed major wireless telecommunication
facility to the nearest point of another major wireless telecommunication
facility. For purposes of measurement, tower setbacks and separation distances
shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in the City irrespective
of municipal and County jurisdictional boundaries.
         a.   Residential Districts. A facility shall not be located within a
three hundred (300) foot radius of any R District.
         b.   Other Telecommunications Facilities. A facility shall not be
located within a one thousand (1,000) foot radius of another facility, unless
appropriate camouflage techniques have been used to minimize the visual impact
of the facility to the extent feasible and mounting on a building or co-
location on an existing facility is not feasible.
         c.   Reduction in Required Separation. A reduction in the required
separation between telecommunications facilities may be granted as a part of
the Conditional Use Permit approval where technical evidence has been provided
to substantiate the following findings:
            (1)   The granting of the reduction will not substantially impair
the intent and purpose of this title or the goals, policies, and objectives of
the adopted General Plan;
            (2)   The reduction is not requested exclusively on the basis of
economic hardship to the applicant;
            (3)   The reduction is necessary and essential to providing the
applicant’s wireless service based on the technical constraints and the lack of
other available appropriately zoned land outside the radius; and
            (4)   Evidence has been submitted to the satisfaction of the City
demonstrating that co-location on existing tower structures is not available or
is not technically feasible. Evidence may include a written statement from the
service provider with the existing facility that collocation is not feasible.
   F.   General Development Requirements: The following standards apply to all
telecommunications facilities:
      1.   Maximum Height. No antenna shall exceed one hundred (100) feet in
height except for camouflage facilities on or within a structure such as a
steeple or flag pole, otherwise allowed to exceed one hundred (100) feet in
height. Such antenna shall not exceed the height of the structure.
      2.   Setbacks. Telecommunications facilities and accessory structures
shall comply with the required building setbacks for the zoning district in
which the facility is located, however, in no instance shall the facility
(including antennae and equipment) be located closer than five (5) feet of any
property line.
      3.   Design Standards. All facilities shall be designed to minimize their
visibility, prevent visual clutter, and reduce conflicts with surrounding land
uses. A visual analysis may be required as part of the Conditional Use Permit
review. All telecommunications facilities shall:
         a.   Utilize state of the art camouflage technology as appropriate to
the site and type of facility. Where no camouflage technology is proposed for
the site, a detailed analysis as to why camouflage technology is physically and
technically infeasible for the project shall be submitted with the application.
         b.   Facilities that are not camouflage shall close mount all panel
antennas.
         c.   Antennae and support structures, where utilized, shall be
monopole type.
         d.   Monopole support structures shall not exceed four (4) feet in
diameter unless technical evidence is provided showing that a larger diameter
is necessary to attain the proposed tower height and that the proposed tower
height is necessary.
         e.   Wireless telecommunications facility support structures and
antennae shall be painted a non-glossy color so as to minimize visual impacts
from surrounding properties.
         f.   All facilities shall be designed and located to minimize their
visibility to the greatest extent feasible. All wireless telecommunications
facilities proposed for locations where they would be readily visible from the
public right-of-way or from a residential district shall incorporate
appropriate techniques to disguise the facility and/or blend into the
surrounding environment, to the extent feasible. Facilities shall be compatible
in scale and integrated architecturally with the design of surrounding
buildings or the natural setting.
         g.   No telecommunications antenna or ancillary support equipment
shall be located within the front setback except for facilities that are
completely subterranean.
         h.   Support structures and site area for wireless telecommunications
antennae shall be designed and of adequate size to allow at least one (1)
additional wireless service provider to co-locate on the structure.
         i.   Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the
FAA or other applicable authority. All objects affecting navigable airspace
shall comply with Federal Aviation Regulation Section 77 and shall be in
conformance with the current land use designations for land within one (1) mile
of the runway.
         j.   For the protection of emergency response personnel, each
telecommunications facility shall have an on-site emergency “kill switch” to
de-energize all RF-related circuitry/componentry at the site. For collocation
facilities, a single “kill switch” shall be installed that will de-energize all
carriers at the facility in the event of an emergency.
         k.   All proposed fencing shall be decorative and compatible with the
adjacent buildings and properties within the surrounding area and shall be
designed to limit graffiti.
      4.   Signage. A permanent, weather-proof identification sign,
approximately sixteen (16) inches by thirty-two (32) inches in size, shall be
placed on the gate of the fence surrounding the facility or, if there is no
fence, on the facility itself. The sign shall identify the facility operator
(s), provide the operator’s address, and specify a twenty-four (24) hour
telephone number at which the operator can be reached so as to facilitate
emergency services.
      5.   Landscaping. Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower shall
provide a landscaping plan that covers as much as the parcel and lease area as
necessary to achieve the following:
         a.   Landscaping shall be provided to screen the facility from
surrounding properties or right-of-ways.
         b.   All landscaping shall be installed with an irrigation system
equipped with an automatic timer.
         c.   Street trees and other landscaping may be required for
telecommunications facilities proposed on parcels lacking street frontage
landscaping.
         d.   Landscaping shall include re-vegetation of any cut or fill
slopes.
         e.   Where possible, existing plants and trees shall be used to the
full extent possible for screening of the facility.
      6.   Noise and Traffic.
         a.   Backup generators shall only be operated during power outages and
for testing and maintenance purposes. Testing and maintenance shall only take
place on weekdays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
         b.   Traffic shall be limited to no more than one (1) round-trip per
day on an average annual basis once construction is complete, except for
emergency maintenance
   G.   Required Findings: The City Council may approve or approve with
conditions any Conditional Use Permit required under this chapter only after
making the following findings:
      1.   The proposed telecommunication facility will comply with all
applicable state and Federal standards and requirements;
      2.   The proposed telecommunication facility will conform with the
specific purposes of this chapter and any special standards applicable to the
proposed facility;
      3.   The applicant has made good faith and reasonable efforts to locate a
telecommunication facility on a support structure other than a new monopole or
lattice tower or to accomplish co-location.
      4.   To locate a telecommunication facility where it is readily visible
from the habitable area of a dwelling unit within three hundred (300) feet or
at any location where it is visible from a public right-of-way, public park, or
other public recreation or cultural facility, the decision-making authority
shall find that:
         a.   It is not feasible to provide the service at another location or
to incorporate additional measures such as a decrease in height, increase in
setback, change in design, relocation relative to other structures or natural
features, that would further reduce its visibility; and
         b.   The proposed telecommunication facility provides an important
link in applicant’s service area build-out and is necessary to provide personal
wireless services to City residents.
         c.   It is not feasible to incorporate additional measures that would
make the telecommunication facility not readily visible, meaning that a person
with normal vision can see the facility and distinguish it as an antenna or
other component of a telecommunication facility;
      5.   The City Council may waive or modify requirements of this chapter
upon finding that strict compliance would result in noncompliance with
applicable federal or state law. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.21: TEMPORARY USES:
A Temporary Use is intended to operate only for a limited period of time.
Unless otherwise specified, temporary uses shall require a permit in accordance
with Chapter 605, Temporary Use Permits. Temporary uses shall be located,
developed, and operated in compliance with the standards of this section, and
the entire area used for the temporary event, including display, sales,
circulation, parking, etc. shall be paved or improved per City standards.
   A.   Carnivals, Fairs and Festival Events. Carnivals, fairs, and festival
events in connection with an existing commercial use or in conjunction with an
activity of a civic organization, church, lodge, public or private school, or
other such group or organization are permitted in accordance with the following
standards:
      1.   Location. Carnivals, fairs, and festival events are limited to areas
within commercial or employment districts, or on property owned by a civic
organization, church, lodge or public or private school.
      2.   Time Limit. When located adjacent to or within an R district, the
hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
      3.   Duration. Carnivals, fairs, and festival events are limited to no
more than five (5) consecutive days four (4) times a year. A more limited
duration may be established through the Temporary Use Permit process in order
to prevent the use from becoming a nuisance with regard to the surrounding
neighborhood or the city as a whole.
      4.   Existing Parking. Where such a use is proposed within a developed
parking lot, the available parking shall not be reduced to less than seventy-
five (75) percent of the minimum number of spaces required by Chapter 304, On-
Site Parking and Loading.
      5.   Temporary onsite camping. Use of recreational vehicles may be
allowed for not longer than four days longer than the temporary use is
scheduled, and only for employees and/or organizers of the event. Such approval
shall be explicitly requested in the application for Temporary Use Permit, and
is subject to conditions and approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Garage Sales. A garage or yard sale may be permitted on any developed
lot in an R district, in accordance with Section
18-8.2 of the Municipal Code and the following standards.
      1.   Garage sales are limited to no more than three (3) consecutive days
in any six (6) month period.
      2.   All merchandise to be sold shall be displayed on a private lot and
not within the public right-of-way.
      3.   One sign not exceeding two feet by two feet in size may be posted on
the property where the sale is being held during the duration of the sale only.
No signs regarding such sale shall be posted on any property other than where
the sale is held.
   C.   Model Homes. Model homes with sales offices and temporary information/
sales trailers in new residential subdivisions are subject to the following
requirements. No temporary use permit is necessary for a model home.
      1.   Time Limits. A temporary information/sales trailer may be used
during the construction of the model homes for a maximum period of six (6)
months or completion of the first phase, whichever occurs first.
      2.   Location of Sales. Real estate sales conducted from a temporary
sales office are limited to sales of lots within the subdivision.
      3.   Return to Residential Use. Prior to the sale of any of the model
homes as a single-family residence, any portion used for commercial purposes
will be converted to its intended residential purpose.
      4.   Term of Use. The model home may be established and operated for a
term period of five (5) years or until completion of the sale of the lots or
residences, whichever comes first. One (1) year extensions may be approved by
the Zoning Administrator until the sale of all lots/residences is completed.
   D.   Temporary and Seasonal Outdoor Sales. Temporary and Seasonal Outdoor
Sales may be permitted in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   General Sales Events. Temporary outdoor sales, including but not
limited to grand opening events, temporary automobile sales, and other special
sales events on private property in non-residential districts shall be subject
to the following standards:
         a.   Temporary outdoor sales shall be part of an existing business on
the same site.
         b.   Temporary automobile sales are limited to the CR district and
need not be in connection with an existing commercial use.
         c.   Sales events shall be conducted solely on private property and
not encroach within the public right-of-way.
         d.   Temporary outdoor sales are limited to four (4) consecutive days
six (6) times a year. No site shall be used for such an activity for more than
ten (10) days in any calendar month. A more limited duration may be established
through the Temporary Use Permit process in order to prevent the use from
becoming a nuisance with regard to the surrounding neighborhood or the city as
a whole.
         e.   When located adjacent to an R district, the hours of operation
shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
         f.   The entire area used for temporary outdoor sales, including
display, sales, circulation, parking, etc. shall be paved per City standards.
         g.   Location of the displayed merchandise shall not disrupt the
normal circulation of the site, nor encroach upon driveways, pedestrian
walkways, or required landscaped areas, or obstruct sight distances or
otherwise create hazards for vehicle or pedestrian traffic.
         h.   Where such a use is proposed within a developed parking lot, the
available parking shall not be reduced to less than seventy-five (75) percent
of the minimum number of spaces required by Chapter 304, On-Site Parking and
Loading.
      2.   Seasonal Sales. The annual sale of holiday related items such as
Christmas trees, pumpkins and similar items is permitted in accordance with the
following standards:
         a.   Time Period. Seasonal sales associated with holidays are
permitted up to a month preceding and one (1) week following the holiday.
Christmas tree sales are permitted from Thanksgiving Day through December 31st.
         b.   Goods, Signs and Temporary Structures. All items for sale, as
well as signs and temporary structures, shall be removed within ten (10) days
after the end of sales, and the appearance of the site shall be returned to its
original state.
      3.   Non-Profit Fund Raising. Fund raising sales by a non-profit
organization are limited to seven (7) consecutive days twelve (12) times a
year.
   E.   Long Term Special Events and Sales. Other special events, outdoor
sales, and displays that exceed seven (7) consecutive days but not more than
three (3) months, may be permitted with Zoning Administrator approval and in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Location. Events are limited to non-residential district.
      2.   Number of Events. Long term special events and sales are limited to
no more than two (2) per year.
      3.   Existing Business. Temporary outdoor sales shall be part of an
existing business on the same site.
      4.   Signs. Outdoor uses may include the addition of one (1) nonpermanent
sign up to a maximum size of four (4) square feet in area, subject to Chapter
305, Signs. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
301.22: TRANSITIONAL AND SUPPORTIVE HOUSING:
Transitional and supportive housing, as defined in Section 50675.2 and
50675.14, respectively, of the Health and Safety Code constitute a residential
use and are subject only to those restrictions that apply to other residential
uses of the same type in the same district. For example, if transitional
housing is a multi-family use proposed in the RM-1 district, it is subject only
to the same restrictions as other multi-family uses in the RM-1 district. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
301.23: CANNABIS CULTIVATION, USE, AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   The City Council, based on evidence presented to it in the
proceedings leading to the adoption of this chapter, hereby finds that the
cultivation, preparation, and distribution of cannabis in the City has caused
and is causing ongoing impacts to the community. These impacts include
increases in various types of crime due to outdoor grows, damage to buildings
containing indoor grows, including improper and dangerous electrical
alterations and use, inadequate ventilation leading to mold and mildew,
increased frequency of home-invasion robberies and related crimes. Many of
these impacts have fallen disproportionately on residential neighborhoods, but
nonetheless also negatively impact properties in the Commercial Districts.
These impacts have also created an increase in response costs, including Code
enforcement, building, land use, fire, and police staff time and expenses.
      2.   The City Council finds that the restrictions and/or prohibitions on
non-commercial cultivation, commercial marijuana cultivation, marijuana
processing, marijuana delivery, and marijuana dispensaries are necessary for
the preservation and protection of the public health, safety, and welfare for
the City and its community. The City Council’s prohibition of such activities
is within the authority conferred upon the City Council in its Charter and
State law.
      3.   The purpose of this section is to restrict non-commercial
cultivation, and to restrict and/or prohibit the establishment of commercial
cannabis uses in the City.
   B.   Interpretation And Applicability:
      1.   Nothing in this section is intended to, nor shall it be construed
to, preclude a landlord from limiting or prohibiting cannabis cultivation,
smoking or other related activities by tenants.
      2.   Nothing in this section is intended to, nor shall it be construed
to, burden any defense to criminal prosecution otherwise afforded by California
law.
      3.   Nothing in this section is intended to, nor shall it be construed
to, exempt any cannabis related activity from any and all applicable local and
State construction, electrical, plumbing, land use, or any other building or
land use standards or permitting requirements.
      4.   Nothing in this section is intended to, nor shall it be construed
to, make legal any cultivation, transportation, sale or other use of cannabis
that is otherwise prohibited under California law.
      5.   All cultivation activities within City limits shall be subject to
the provisions of this section and other applicable provisions of this Code,
regardless of whether the cultivation activities existed or occurred prior to
adoption of this section.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
                                       A residential accessory structure shall
                                       include any uses that are customarily
                                       related to a residence, including
                                       garages, greenhouses, storage sheds,
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE:                   studios, and workshops. Any accessory
                                       structure must be compliant with Section
                                       301.01 of this article and any other
                                       applicable provisions of the Municipal
                                       Code.
                                       Any or all parts of the plant Cannabis
                                       sativa linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or
                                       Cannabis ruderalis, or any other strain
                                       or varietal of the genus of Cannabis
                                       that may exist or hereafter be
                                       discovered or developed that has
                                       psychoactive or medicinal properties,
                                       whether growing or not; the seeds
                                       thereof; the resin, whether crude or
                                       purified, extracted from any part of the
                                       plant; and every compound, manufacture,
                                       salt, derivative, mixture, or
                                       preparation of the plant, its seeds or
                                       resin. Cannabis also means the separated
CANNABIS (AND/OR MARIJUANA):           resin, whether crude or purified,
                                       obtained from cannabis. Cannabis does
                                       not include the mature stalks of the
                                       plant, fiber produced from the stalks,
                                       oil, or cake made from the seeds of the
                                       plant, any other compound, manufacture,
                                       salt, derivative, mixture, or
                                       preparation of the mature stalks (except
                                       the resin extracted therefrom), fiber,
                                       oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of
                                       the plant which is incapable of
                                       germination. For the purposes of this
                                       Code, cannabis does not mean industrial
                                       hemp as defined by Section 11018.5 of
                                       the California Health and Safety Code.
CANNABIS ACCESSORIES:                  As defined in Chapter 15, Article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
CANNABIS DISPENSARY:                   As defined in Chapter 15, Article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
                                       Includes any group that is collectively
                                       or cooperatively cultivating and
                                       distributing marijuana for medical
                                       purposes that is organized in the manner
                                       set forth in the August 2008 Guidelines
                                       for the Security and Non-Diversion of
                                       Marijuana Grown for Medical Use, as may
CANNABIS (OR MARIJUANA) COLLECTIVE OR  be amended from time to time, that was
COOPERATIVE OR COLLECTIVE:             issued by the Office of the Attorney
                                       General for the State of California, or
                                       for the purposes set forth in California
                                       Health and Safety Code section 11362.5
                                       (Compassionate Use Act) of California
                                       Health and Safety Code sections 11362.7
                                       to 11362.83 (Medical Marijuana Program
                                       Act).
CANNABIS PRODUCT:                      As defined in chapter 15, article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
COMMERCIAL CANNABIS ACTIVITY:          As defined in chapter 15, article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
CONCENTRATED CANNABIS:                 As defined in chapter 15, article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
DELIVERY:                              As defined in chapter 15, article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
DISTRIBUTION:                          As defined in chapter 15, article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
                                       The Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis
                                       Regulation and Safety Act as codified in
MAUCRSA:                               division 10 of the California Business
                                       and Professions Code, as the same may be
                                       amended from time to time.
MANUFACTURE:                           As defined in chapter 15, article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY:           As defined in chapter 15, article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
                                       Any activity involving the growing,
                                       planting, harvesting, drying, curing,
PERSONAL (NON-COMMERCIAL) CULTIVATION: grading, or trimming, and includes
                                       processing of cannabis when done for
                                       individual (noncommercial) purposes.
PROCESSING:                            As defined in chapter 15, article VII of
                                       the Municipal Code.
                                       Any cemetery, religious institution,
                                       school, public building regularly
SENSITIVE USE:                         frequented by children, public park, or
                                       boys club, girls club or similar
                                       organization.
 
   D.   Severability: If any part of this section is held to be invalid or
inapplicable to any situation by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
section.
   E.   Personal (Non-Commercial) Cultivation And Other Activities: Personal,
non-commercial cultivation and other activities including drying, harvesting,
processing, smoking, and use are restricted pursuant to this section and/or
chapter 18, article XI of the Municipal Code. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit a person twenty one (21) years of age or older from engaging in the
cultivation of six (6) or fewer live cannabis plants within a single private
residence, or inside an accessory structure located upon the grounds of a
private residence. Alternatively, the six (6) or fewer plants may be grown
outdoors within a locked space that is not visible by normal, unaided vision
from a public place or from the surrounding properties. Additionally, the
following requirements apply:
      1.   There shall be no exterior evidence of cannabis cultivation
occurring at any property, from the public right-of-way.
      2.   Cannabis cultivation lighting shall not exceed 140,000 lumens
(traditionally referenced as one thousand two hundred watts (1,200 W)).
      3.   If grown in an accessory structure, the structure(s) shall at all
times meet the requirements of the latest adopted version of the California
Building, Fire, Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing Codes (collectively
California Codes). All required electrical permits must be obtained pursuant to
the California Codes and applicable regulations, and proper permits must be
obtained from the Building Division prior to performing any work on electrical
wiring or rewiring.
      4.   If required by the California Codes, the wall(s) adjacent to the
cultivation area shall be constructed with five-eighths inch (5/8") type X
moisture-resistant drywall.
      5.   Cannabis cultivation areas shall be secured by a functioning audible
alarm at all times during growing seasons.
      6.   The growing of cannabis outdoors shall comply with setback
requirements for the primary residence on the property subject to the zoning
classification of the property.
      7.   Cannabis plants grown outdoors shall be grown in an area enclosed
with a solid view obscuring fence, secured with self-closing and locking gates.
      8.   Areas for cultivation of cannabis shall be secured, locked, and
fully enclosed, and rendered inaccessible to minors.
      9.   All restrictions set forth in chapter 18, article XI of the
Municipal Code, applicable to cultivation, shall be complied with.
   F.   Prohibited Uses And Activities:
      1.   With the exception of cannabis dispensaries as set forth further in
this section, and as regulated in chapter 15, article VII of the Municipal
Code, commercial cannabis activity, whether or not for profit, is expressly
prohibited in all zones, specific plans areas, and overlay zones of the City.
No person shall establish, operate, maintain, conduct, allow or engage in
commercial cannabis activity anywhere within the City, unless expressly
permitted by this section or elsewhere in the Municipal Code.
      2.   A property owner shall not rent, lease or otherwise permit any
person or business that engages in commercial cannabis activity to occupy real
property in the City, unless the commercial activity is expressly permitted by
the Municipal Code, and the activity at that location has been expressly
authorized by the City in accordance with applicable City regulations and State
laws. A property owner shall not allow any person or business to establish,
operate, maintain, conduct, or engage in unauthorized commercial cannabis
activity on any real property owned or controlled by that property owner that
is located in the City.
      3.   Unless expressly authorized by the Municipal Code, subsection F1 of
this section shall prohibit all activities for which a State license is
required pursuant to MAUCRSA, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Accordingly, the City shall not issue any permit, license, or other entitlement
for any activity for which a State license is required under the MAUCRSA, as
the same may be amended from time to time, except for activities expressly
authorized and permitted by the City. The City shall also not issue any local
license to a nonprofit entity pursuant to California Business and Professions
Code section 26070.5, except as expressly authorized and permitted by the City.
   G.   Permitted Use:
      1.   Location: Commercial cannabis dispensary uses shall be allowed to be
established and operated by business owners (as defined in section 15-85 of the
Municipal Code), that meet all of the requirements specified in this section
and chapter 15, article VII of the Municipal Code, in the CG, DR-N, DR-S and
Airport Industrial Zone Districts of the City, subject to having a valid State
license for the operations, having a regulatory permit from the City, obtaining
a City business license, and having entered into a Development Agreement
between the business owners and the City. Any cannabis dispensary permitted to
be established shall at all times be in compliance with this section and
chapter 15, article VII of the Municipal Code, as it may be amended from time
to time or repealed and replaced by another section governing cannabis
dispensary operation, but subject to the terms and conditions within the
applicable Development Agreement.
      2.   Number of Permits: The number of regulatory permits for cannabis
dispensaries is limited to no more than two permits, plus an additional permit
for every twenty five thousand (25,000) residents. The City Council may reserve
one of the allowed permits exclusively for a medical cannabis dispensary use,
in conformity with the applicable regulations set forth in chapter 15, article
VII of the Municipal Code.
      3.   Distance Separation From Schools: All cannabis dispensaries shall
comply with the distance separation requirements from schools as required by
State law. In addition, a cannabis dispensary shall not be located within six
hundred feet (600') from any existing school or proposed school site as
identified in the General Plan. Measurements shall be from property boundary to
property boundary. For purposes of this section, school means any public or
private school providing instruction in kindergarten or grades 1 - 12,
inclusive, but does not include any private school in which education is
primarily conducted in private homes. The distance specified in this section
shall be measured in the same manner as provided in subdivision (c) of section
11362.768 of the Health and Safety Code unless otherwise provided by law.
      4.   Building Property Requirements: All building property requirements
set forth in chapter 15, article VII of the Municipal Code shall also apply and
are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein.
      5.   Additional Requirements: Cannabis dispensary uses are additionally
subject to all setback, signage, and other requirements applicable to the zone
classifications they are located in, in addition to any applicable requirements
set forth in this chapter and the Municipal Code, as well as the Downtown
Design Guidelines, in applicable zone districts.
   H.   Enforcement: Any violation of this section is subject to any and all
penalties as prescribed in the Municipal Code, in addition to being subject to
other remedies provided by law, including but not limited to, injunctive
relief, nuisance abatement action, summary abatement of immediately hazardous
conditions, and all other applicable fines, penalties and remedies. This
section is adopted to address public health and safety issues, and as such,
carries with it an express legislative intent to be interpreted strictly,
enforced with an emphasis on public and community safety, and enforced
rigorously in a manner such as to deter further violations. In any civil action
brought pursuant to this section, a court of competent jurisdiction may award
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to the prevailing party. Notwithstanding
the penalties set forth in the Municipal Code, no provision of this section or
the Municipal Code authorizes a criminal prosecution, arrest or penalty
inconsistent with or prohibited by Health and Safety Code section 11362.71 et
seq., or section 11362.1 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time.
In the event of any conflict between the penalties enumerated under the
Municipal Code and any penalties set forth in State law, the maximum penalties
allowable under State law shall govern. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1880,
2-16-2021; Ord. 1911, 6-3-2025)
ARTICLE 302. AFFORDABLE HOUSING DENSITY BONUS AND OTHER INCENTIVES
SECTION:
302.01: Purpose
302.02: General Provisions
302.03: State Affordable Housing Density Bonus
302.04: State Childcare Facility Density Bonus
302.05: Affordable Housing Concessions And Incentives
302.06: Application Requirements
302.07: Review
302.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the affordable housing density bonus and other
incentives regulations are to:
   A.   Allow for density bonuses and additional incentives, consistent with
Government Code Section 65915, for affordable housing lower and moderate income
households, for seniors and disabled persons, and for development that includes
a childcare facility;
   B.   Implement the policies of the General Plan Housing Element to expand
the provision of housing for lower and moderate income households, elderly
residents and others with special housing needs; and
   C.   Establish requirements for resale and rental controls to ensure that
units remain affordable for at least thirty (30) years or such other term as
required by the City, consistent with State law. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
302.02: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   State Law Governs. The provisions of this chapter shall be governed by
the requirements of Government Code Section 65915, as amended. Where conflict
occurs between the provisions of this chapter and State law, the State law
shall govern.
   B.   Land Use Compatibility. All affordable housing units shall be dispersed
throughout the community. Affordable housing units within market-rate projects
shall be comparable with the design of market-rate units in appearance, use of
materials, and finished quality. Building forms, materials and proportions
shall comply with the standards of Series 200.
   C.   Availability. Affordable housing units shall be constructed
concurrently with, and made available for qualified occupants at the same time
as the market-rate housing units within the same project unless both the City
and the developer agree to an alternative schedule for development.
   D.   Effect of Granting Density Bonus. The granting of a density bonus shall
not, in and of itself, require a General Plan amendment, zoning change, or
other discretionary approval.
   E.   Income Levels. For purposes of determining income levels of households
under this chapter, the City shall use the Tulare County income limits in Title
25, Section 6932 of the California Code of Regulations or other income limits
adopted by the City Council if the State department of Housing and Community
Development fails to provide timely updates of the income limits in the
California Code of Regulations. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
302.03: STATE AFFORDABLE HOUSING DENSITY BONUS:
   A.   Minimum Density Bonus and Composition of Qualifying Projects. Pursuant
to Government Code Section 65915, the City shall grant a density bonus in the
following amounts over the otherwise allowable maximum residential density
permitted by this Ordinance and the General Plan, and one (1) or more
additional concessions or incentives, consistent with Government Code Section
65915 and this section, if the applicant applies for and proposes to construct
any one (1) of the following:
      1.   Lower Income Units. A density bonus of twenty (20) percent if ten
(10) percent of the total units of a housing development are affordable to
lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety
Code.
      2.   Very Low Income Units. A density bonus of twenty (20) percent if
five (5) percent of the total units of a housing development are affordable to
very low income households, as defined in Section 50105 of the Health and
Safety Code.
      3.   Senior Citizen Housing Development. A density bonus of twenty (20)
percent if a housing development qualifies as a Senior Citizen Housing
Development, as defined in Section 51.3 of the Civil Code.
      4.   Moderate Income Units in Condominium and Planned Use Developments. A
density bonus of five (5) percent if ten (10) percent of the total dwelling
units in a condominium project, as defined in Subdivision (f) of, or in a
Planned Development, as defined in Subdivision (k) of Section 1351 of the Civil
Code, are affordable to persons and families of moderate income, as defined in
Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.
   B.   Additional Sliding Scale Density Bonus. As provided for in Government
Code Section 65915(g) the number of units to which the applicant is entitled
may exceed the percentage specified in Subsection (a) under the following
provisions:
      1.   Lower Income Dwellings. For each additional one (1) percent increase
above ten (10) percent units affordable to lower income households, the density
bonus shall be increased by one and one-half (1.5) percent up to a maximum
density bonus of thirty-five (35) percent of the maximum allowable residential
density for the site.
      2.   Very Low Income Dwellings. For each additional one (1) percent
increase above five (5) percent in the proportion of units affordable to very
low income households, the density bonus shall be increased by two (2) and one-
half (2.5) percent, up to a maximum of thirty-five (35) percent of the maximum
allowable residential density for the site.
      3.   Condominium and Planned Development Units. For each additional one
(1) percent increase above ten (10) percent units affordable to moderate income
households, the density bonus shall be increased by one (1) percent, up to a
maximum of thirty-five (35) percent of the maximum allowable residential
density for the site.
   C.   Extra Density Bonus. Provided a resulting housing development would not
restrict more than 50 percent of the total units to moderate income, lower
income, or very low income households, an additional density bonus calculated
pursuant to Table 302.03-A or Table 302.03-B shall be granted when an applicant
proposes to construct a housing development that conforms to the requirements
of Subsections (a) and (b), agrees to include additional rental or for-sale
units affordable to very low income households or moderate income households,
and meets any of the following requirements:
      1.   The housing development conforms to the requirements of Subsections
(a) and (b) and provides 24 percent of the total units to lower income
households.
      2.   The housing development conforms to the requirements of Subsections
(a) and (b) and provides 15 percent of the total units to very low income
households.
      3.   The housing development conforms to the requirements of Subsections
(a) and (b) and provides 44 percent of the total units to moderate-income
households.
      4.   An additional density bonus for a housing development that meets the
requirements of paragraph (1), calculated as follows. These increases shall be
in addition to any increase in density granted by Subsections (a) and (b) and
shall be calculated using the number of units excluding any density bonus
awarded by this section.
TABLE 302.03-A: EXTRA DENSITY BONUS FOR PROJECTS WITH VERY LOW INCOME UNITS
Percentage Very Low Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
TABLE 302.03-A: EXTRA DENSITY BONUS FOR PROJECTS WITH VERY LOW INCOME UNITS
Percentage Very Low Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
5                                20
6                                23.75
7                                27.5
8                                31.25
9                                38.75
10                               38.75
 
TABLE 302.03-B: EXTRA DENSITY BONUS FOR PROJECTS WITH MODERATE INCOME UNITS
Percentage Moderate-Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
TABLE 302.03-B: EXTRA DENSITY BONUS FOR PROJECTS WITH MODERATE INCOME UNITS
Percentage Moderate-Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
5                                20
6                                22.5
7                                25
8                                27.5
9                                30
10                               32.5
11                               35
12                               38.75
13                               42.5
14                               46.25
15                               50
 
   D.   Qualifying Projects-Number of Units. The bonuses under Subsections (a)
and (b) are applicable to residential projects of five (5) or more units, and
senior housing projects of more than thirty-five (35) units.
   E.   Calculation of Density Bonus Units. When calculating the number of
permitted density bonus units, all fractional units shall be rounded to the
next higher whole number. The applicant who requests a density bonus for a
project that meets two (2) or more of the eligibility requirements shall
specify whether the bonus shall be awarded on the basis of paragraphs (1), (2),
(3), or (4) of Section
302.03.(a), Minimum Density Bonus and Composition of Qualifying Projects. The
density bonus shall not be included when determining the number of target units
to be provided in a development project.
   F.   Optional Density Bonus. The City may grant a proportionally lower
density bonus and/or provide concessions and/or incentives set forth in Section
302.05, Affordable Housing Concessions and Incentives, if an applicant agrees
to construct a development containing less than the percentage of housing for
lower or very low income households than provided in Subsection (a) of this
section.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
302.04: STATE CHILDCARE FACILITY DENSITY BONUS:
   A.   Basic Requirements. When an applicant proposes to construct a housing
development that conforms to the requirements of the State Density Bonus law
and includes a childcare facility other than a Family Day Care Home that will
be located on the premises of, as part of, or adjacent to, the project, the
City shall grant either of the following:
      1.   Additional Density Bonus. A density bonus of additional residential
units equal in square footage to the amount of square feet of the childcare
facility.
      2.   Additional Concession or Incentive. An additional concession or
incentive that contributes significantly to the economic feasibility of the
construction of the childcare facility.
   B.   Conditions of Approval. The City shall require, as a condition of
approving the housing development that the following occur:
      1.   Length of Operation. The childcare facility remains in operation for
a period of time that is as long as, or longer than the length of time during
which the affordable housing units shall remain affordable.
      2.   Attending Children. The percentage of children of very low, low or
moderate income households who attend the childcare facility shall be the same
or greater than the percentage of dwelling units in the project that are
required for households at each income level.
   C.   Exceptions. The City shall not be required to provide a density bonus
or concession for a childcare facility if it finds that, based upon substantial
evidence, the community has adequate childcare facilities. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-
2019)
302.05: AFFORDABLE HOUSING CONCESSIONS AND INCENTIVES:
   A.   Number of Incentives or Concessions. Pursuant to Government Code
Section 65915, an applicant is entitled to receive incentives and/or
concessions as follows:
      1.   One (1) incentive or concession for projects that include at least
ten (10) percent of the total units for lower income households, at least five
(5) percent for very low income households, or at least ten (10) percent for
persons and families of moderate income in a condominium or planned
development; or
      2.   One (1) incentive or concession for senior citizen housing
developments; or
      3.   Two (2) incentives or concessions for projects that include at least
twenty (20) percent of the total units for lower income households, at least
ten (10) percent for very low income households, or at least twenty (20)
percent for persons and families of moderate income in a condominium or planned
development; or
      4.   Three (3) incentives or concessions for projects that include at
least thirty (30) percent of the total units for lower income households, at
least fifteen (15) percent for very low income households, or at least thirty
(30) percent for persons and families of moderate income in a condominium or
planned development.
      5.   Four (4) incentives or concessions for projects that include at
least sixteen (16) percent of the units for very low income households or at
least forty-five (45) percent for persons and families of moderate income in a
development in which the units are for sale.
      6.   Five (5) incentives or concessions for one hundred percent
affordable developments, including total units and density bonus units, but
exclusive of a manager’s unit or units, that are for lower income households,
except that up to 20 percent of the units in the development, including total
units and density bonus units, may be for moderate-income households.
      7.   The applicant who requests incentives or concessions for a mixed-
income project shall specify whether the incentives or concessions shall be
awarded on the basis of paragraph one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4), five
(5), or six (6) of this section.
   B.   Proposal of Incentives and Findings. An applicant may propose specific
incentives or concessions that would contribute significantly to the economic
feasibility of providing affordable units pursuant to this chapter and State
law. In addition to any increase in density to which an applicant is entitled,
the City shall grant one (1) or more incentives and/or concessions that an
applicant requests, up to the maximum number of incentives and concessions
required pursuant to Subsection (a), unless the City makes a written finding
that either:
      1.   The concession or incentive is not necessary in order to provide the
proposed targeted units, or
      2.   The concession or incentive would have a specific adverse impact
that cannot be feasibly mitigated on public health and safety or the physical
environment or any property that is listed in the California Register of
Historical Resources.
      3.   Notwithstanding the restriction in Subsection (a)(5) above, the
applicant may propose and the City may approve additional incentives and
concessions for an eligible project that provides targeted units that meet two
(2) or more of the eligibility requirements based on a written finding that the
additional incentives or concessions are necessary in order to make the project
economically feasible.
   C.   Types of Affordable Housing Incentives. Affordable housing incentives
may consist of any combination of the items listed below:
      1.   Modification of Development Standards. Up to twenty (20) percent in
modification of site development standards or zoning code requirements that
exceed minimum building code standards and fire code standards, including, but
not limited to:
         a.   Reduced minimum lot sizes and/or dimensions.
         b.   Reduced minimum building setbacks and building separation
requirements.
         c.   Reduced minimum outdoor and/or private usable open space
requirements.
         d.   Increased maximum lot coverage.
         e.   Increased maximum building height.
      2.   Parking. Upon the applicant’s request, the following maximum parking
standards, inclusive of handicapped and guest parking, shall apply to the
entire project. Further reductions in required parking may be requested as one
(1) of the incentives allowed under Subsection (a).
         a.   One (1) on-site space for studios to one (1) bedroom units;
         b.   Two (2) on-site spaces for two (2) to three (3) bedroom units;
and
         c.   Two and a half (2.5) on-site spaces for four (4) more bedroom
units.
         d.   For purposes of this section, at the applicant’s request, on-site
parking may be provided through tandem parking or uncovered parking but not
through on-street parking.
      3.   Mixed Use Zoning. Approval of mixed use zoning in conjunction with
the housing project if commercial, office, industrial or other land uses will
reduce the cost of the housing development and such uses are compatible with
the housing project and the surrounding area.
      4.   Other Incentives. Other regulatory incentives or concessions
proposed by the developer or the City that result in identifiable cost
reductions or avoidance.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
302.06: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
An application for a density bonus, incentive, concession, waiver,
modification, or revised parking standard pursuant to this chapter shall be
submitted in conjunction with the project application and shall be processed
concurrently with all other applications required for the project. The
application shall be submitted on a form provided by the City and shall
include, at a minimum, the following information:
   A.   A site plan showing the total number of units, the number and location
of the units dedicated pursuant to California Government Code Section 65915(b),
and the number and location of the proposed density bonus units;
   B.   The level of affordability of the dedicated units;
   C.   A description of any requested incentives, concessions, waivers or
modifications of development standards, or modified parking standards and
evidence demonstrating that the application of the subject standard or
requirement would preclude construction of the project at the densities
provided for in California Government Code Section 65915 and that the waiver or
modification is necessary to make development of the project financially
feasible at the densities provided for in California Government Code Section
65915;
   D.   If a density bonus is requested for a land donation pursuant to
California Government Code Section 65915(h), the application shall show the
location of the land to be dedicated and provide evidence that the requirements
of Section 65915(h) have been met, thus entitling the project to the requested
density bonus; and
   E.   If a density bonus is requested for construction of a child care
facility pursuant to California Government Code Section 65915(i), the
application shall show the location and square footage of the proposed facility
and provide evidence that the requirements of Section 65915(i) have been met,
thus entitling the project to the requested density bonus. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-
2019)
302.07: REVIEW:
   A.   Duration of Affordability. All affordable housing units shall be kept
affordable for a minimum period of thirty (30) years or such other term
approved by the City, consistent with State law.
   B.   Regulatory Agreement Required. All affordable housing projects shall be
subject to the approval of an agreement pursuant to conforming to the
provisions of Sections 65864 to 65869 of the Government Code. The terms of the
agreement shall be reviewed and revised as appropriate by the Zoning
Administrator and/or City Attorney, who shall formulate a recommendation to the
decision making body for final approval. This agreement shall include, but is
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Number of Units. The total number of units approved for the
projects, including the number of affordable housing units.
      2.   Target Units. The location, unit sizes (in square feet) and number
of bedrooms of the affordable housing units.
      3.   Household Income Group. A description of the household income groups
to be accommodated by the project and a calculation of the Affordable Sales
Price.
      4.   Certification Procedures. The party responsible for certifying sales
prices or annual rental rates, and the process that will be used for
certification.
      5.   Schedule. A schedule for the completion and occupancy of the
affordable housing units.
      6.   Required Term of Affordability. Duration of affordability of the
housing units. Provisions shall also cover resale control and deed restrictions
on targeted housing units that are binding on property upon sale or transfer.
      7.   Expiration of Agreement. Provisions covering the expiration of the
agreement, including notice prior to conversion to market rate units and right
of first refusal option for the City and/or the distribution of accrued equity
for for-sale units.
      8.   Remedies for Breach. A description of the remedies for breach of the
Agreement by either party.
      9.   Other Provisions. Other provisions to ensure implementation and
compliance with this chapter.
      10.   Condominium and Planned Developments. In the case of condominium
and planned developments, the Regulatory Agreement shall provide for the
following conditions governing the initial resale and use of affordable housing
units:
         a.   Target units shall, upon initial sale, be sold to eligible Very
Low, Lower, or Moderate Income Households at an Affordable Sales Price and
Housing Cost, or to Qualified Residents as defined by this Ordinance.
         b.   Target units shall be initially owner-occupied by eligible Very
Low or Lower Income Households.
         c.   Upon resale, the seller of a target unit shall retain the value
of any improvements, the down payment, and the seller’s proportionate share of
appreciation. The City shall recapture its proportionate share of appreciation,
which shall be used to promote home ownership opportunities as provided for in
Health and Safety Code Section 33334.2. The City’s proportionate share shall be
equal to the percentage by which the initial sale price to the targeted
household was less than the fair market value of the dwelling unit at the time
of initial sale.
      11.   Rental Housing Developments. In the case of rental housing
developments, the Regulatory Agreement shall provide for the following
conditions governing the use of Target Units during the use restriction period:
         a.   The rules and procedures for qualifying tenants, establishing
affordable rent rates, filling vacancies, and maintaining Target Units for
qualified tenants.
         b.   Provisions requiring owners to verify tenant incomes and maintain
books and records to demonstrate compliance with this chapter.
         c.   Provisions requiring owners to submit an annual report to the
City, which includes the name, address, and income of each person occupying
Target Units, and which identifies the bedroom size and monthly rent or cost of
each Target Unit. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 303. LANDSCAPING
SECTION:
303.01: Purpose
303.02: Applicability
303.03: Landscape Design Principles
303.04: Areas To Be Landscaped
303.05: General Landscaping Standards
303.06: Installation And Completion
303.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the landscaping regulations are to:
   A.   Improve the appearance of the community by requiring aesthetically
pleasing landscaping on public and private sites;
   B.   Aid in energy conservation by providing shade from the sun and shelter
from the wind;
   C.   Soften the appearance of parking lots and other development through
landscaping;
   D.   Promote conservation of water resources through the use of native and
drought-tolerant plants, and water-conserving irrigation practices; and
   E.   Minimize or eliminate conflicts between potentially incompatible but
otherwise permitted land uses on adjoining lots through visual screening. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
303.02: APPLICABILITY:
The standards of this chapter apply to all new development or improvements
subject to project review and building permits. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
303.03: LANDSCAPE DESIGN PRINCIPLES:
The following design principles are general standards to be used by City staff
in evaluating whether landscape plans conform to the requirements of this
chapter:
   A.   Natural Landscapes. Landscape designs shall incorporate and enhance
existing natural landscapes and existing specimen trees and native vegetation
(including canopy, understory, and ground cover). Particular care shall be
given to preserve intact natural landscapes. Where previous landscaping has
dramatically altered natural landscapes, new designs shall seek to reestablish
natural landscape patterns and plantings. Natural landscapes and native
vegetation do not include weeds.
   B.   Composition. The quality of a landscape design is dependent not only on
the quantity and selection of plant materials but also on how that material is
arranged. Landscape materials shall include a combination of ground covers,
shrubs, vines and trees with a variety of plant heights and colors.
   C.   Buffering and Screening. The placement of natural landscape materials
(trees, shrubs, and hedges) is the preferred method for buffering differing
land uses, for providing a transition between adjacent properties, and for
screening the view of any parking or storage area, refuse collection, utility
enclosures, or other service area visible from a public street, alley, or
pedestrian area. Plants may be used with fences or berms to achieve the desired
screening or buffering effect. When used to screen an activity area such as a
parking lot, landscaping shall not interfere with public safety.
   D.   Responsive to Local Context and Character. Landscape designs shall
build on the site’s and area’s unique physical characteristics, conserving and
complementing existing natural features. Naturalistic design elements such as
irregular plant spacing, undulating berm contours, and mixed proportions of
plant species shall be used to ensure that new landscaping blends in and
contributes to the quality of the surrounding area. Selection and spacing of
plant material shall be reflective of the surrounding area’s character.
   E.   Use of Native and Drought Resistant Plants. Landscape designs shall
feature native and/or related plant species and avoid invasive species,
especially in areas adjacent to existing native vegetation, to take advantage
of the unique natural character and diversity of the region and the
adaptability of native plants to local environmental conditions. Where
feasible, the re-establishment of native habitats shall be incorporated into
the landscape design. In the same manner, landscape designs shall utilize
drought tolerant plant materials to the maximum extent feasible. The use of
drought tolerant plants shall enrich the existing landscape character, conserve
water and energy, and provide as pleasant and varied a visual appearance as
plants that require more water.
   F.   Continuity and Connection. Landscaping shall be designed within the
context of the surrounding area, provided that the landscaping is also
consistent with these design principles. Where the design intent and the
surrounding landscape is naturalistic, plant materials shall blend well with
adjacent properties, particularly where property edges meet, to create a
seamless and natural landscape. Where the design intent and the surrounding
landscape is formal, consistent or similar plant material and spacing shall be
utilized. Exceptions shall be made when seeking to create a transition between
uses, districts, and tiers.
   G.   Enhancing Architecture. Landscape designs shall be compatible with and
enhance the architectural character and features of the buildings on site, and
help relate the building to the surrounding landscape. Major landscape elements
shall be designed to complement architectural elevations and rooflines through
color, texture, density, and form on both vertical and horizontal planes.
Landscaping shall be in scale with on-site and adjacent buildings. Plant
material shall be installed at an appropriate size and allowed to accomplish
these intended goals. When foundation planting is required, plantings and
window boxes shall incorporate artistic elements and be compatible with a
building’s architectural character. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
303.04: AREAS TO BE LANDSCAPED:
The following areas shall be landscaped, and may count toward the total area of
site landscaping required by the zoning district regulations.
   A.   Required Setbacks. All required front and street-facing side setbacks,
except for areas used for exit and entry, shall be landscaped.
FIGURE 303.04A: REQUIRED SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3735.png]
   B.   Interior Property Lines Abutting R Districts. A minimum five (5) foot
wide landscape buffer shall be provided along interior property lines, where no
building abuts a property line, in districts adjacent to an R district.
   C.   Building Perimeters. The portions of a building façade that face onto a
customer parking lot or front a public street shall have one (1) or more
landscape planters installed along a minimum twenty (20) percent of that
building face. The minimum width of the planter shall be three (3) feet. This
standard does not apply where a building is located on the front or corner side
property line and there is no setback between the building and the property
line.
FIGURE 303.04C: BUILDING PERIMETERS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3737.png]
 
   D.   Landscaping in Parking Areas. Parking areas shall be landscaped as
required by Article 304, On-Site Parking and Loading.
   E.   Orchards and Gardens. Areas permanently and solely dedicated to edible
plants such as orchards and vegetable gardens.
   F.   Unused Areas. All areas of a project site not intended for a specific
use, including areas planned for future phases of a phased development, shall
be landscaped or left in a natural state. Access to the unused portion of the
site shall be prohibited by a concrete curb, timber barrier or other barrier
not less than six (6) inches high. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
303.05: GENERAL LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
   A.   Materials:
      1.   General. Landscaping shall consist of a combination of ground
covers, shrubs, vines, and trees. Landscaped areas may include paved or
graveled surfaces. Plant materials shall be selected from those species and
varieties known to thrive in the Porterville climate and/or listed in Sunset’s
Western Garden Book, Region No. 9. Recirculating water shall be used for
decorative water features.
      2.   Ground Cover Materials. Ground cover shall be of living organic
plant material. Ground cover may include grasses. The exclusive or majority use
of non-plant materials such as gravel, colored rock, cinder, bark, and similar
materials may not be used to meet the minimum planting area requirements
required by this chapter. Mulch is not a substitute for ground cover plants.
      3.   Turf Allowance/Drought-Tolerant Materials. The maximum amount of
lawn in required landscape areas shall be twenty-five (25) percent except for
turf areas that comprise an essential component of a project (e.g., golf
courses or playing fields), which are exempt from this limit. The installation
of turf on slopes greater than twenty-five (25) percent is prohibited. The use
of drought-tolerant or artificial turf plant materials is preferred in these
applications to conserve the City’s water resources.
      4.   Mulch. A minimum three (3) inch layer of mulch shall be applied on
all exposed soil surfaces of planting areas except in turf areas, creeping or
rooting ground covers or other special planting situations where mulch is not
recommended. Stabilizing mulching products shall be used on slopes.
      5.   Size and Spacing. Plant materials shall be grouped in hydrozones in
accordance with their respective water, cultural (soil, climate, sun and light)
and maintenance needs. Plants shall be of the following size and spacing at the
time of installation:
         a.   Ground Covers. Areas planted in ground cover plants other than
grass seed or sod shall be planted at a rate of one (1) per twelve (12) inches
on center.
         b.   Shrubs. Shrubs shall be a minimum size of one (1) gallon. When
planted to serve as a hedge or screen, shrubs shall be planted with two (2) to
four (4) feet of spacing, depending on the plant species.
         c.   Trees. Trees shall be a minimum of fifteen (15) gallons in size
with a one (1) inch diameter at breast height (dbh) spaced at thirty-five (35)
feet on center. Newly planted trees shall be supported with stakes or guywires.
   B.   Dimension of Landscaped Areas. No landscaped area smaller than three
(3) feet in any horizontal dimension shall count toward required landscaping.
   C.   Drivers’ Visibility. Trees and shrubs shall be planted and maintained
so that at maturity they do not interfere with traffic safety sight areas, or
public safety. Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, landscaping
must comply with Section
300.16, Visibility at Intersections and Driveways. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
303.06: INSTALLATION AND COMPLETION:
   A.   Consistency with Approved Plans. All landscaping and screening shall be
installed consistent with approved plans and specifications, in a manner
designed to promote and maintain healthy plant growth.
   B.   Timing of Installation. Required landscaping and screening shall be
installed prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for the
associated project.
   C.   Exception-Assurance of Landscaping Completion. The Zoning Administrator
may permit the required landscaping to be installed within one hundred twenty
(120) days after the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy in special
circumstances related to weather conditions or plant availability. A surety in
the amount equal to one hundred fifty (150) percent of the estimated cost of
landscaping, including materials and labor, as well as an agreement that the
required landscaping will be installed within one hundred twenty (120) days,
shall be filed with the City to assure completion of landscaping installation
within such time. The surety may take the form of cash deposit; and together
with the agreement, would provide for payment to the City of any costs incurred
in contracting for completion of the required landscaping.
   D.   Certification of Substantial Completion. Upon completion of the
installation of the landscaping and irrigation system, a field observation
shall be completed by the licensed project contractor. A certificate of
substantial completion shall be submitted to the City by the licensed project
contractor. The certificate shall specifically indicate that the plants were
installed as specified, that the irrigation system was installed as designed,
along with a list of any deficiencies. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 304. ON SITE PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
304.01: Purpose
304.02: Applicability
304.03: General Provisions
304.04: Required Parking Spaces
304.05: Location Of Required Parking
304.06: Parking Reductions
304.07: Downtown Parking Districts
304.08: Bicycle Parking
304.09: On-Site Loading
304.10: Parking Area Design And Development Standards
304.11: Parking And Storage Of Recreational And Large Vehicles
304.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the on-site parking and loading regulations are to:
   A.   Ensure that parking uses are provided for new land uses and major
alterations to existing uses to meet the parking needs created by such uses;
   B.   Establish standards and regulations for the developer, owner, or
operator of any specific use occurring outdoors or within an existing, newly
constructed, or relocated building to provide well-designed, on-site parking
areas; and
   C.   Ensure that on-site parking and loading areas are designed and located
to protect the public safety; minimize congestion and conflict points on travel
aisles and public streets; and where appropriate, buffer surrounding land uses
from their impact. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
304.02: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this chapter apply to the establishment, alteration,
expansion, or change in any use or structure, as provided in this section.
   A.   New Buildings and Land Uses. On-site parking and loading shall be
provided according to the provisions of this chapter at the time any main
building or structure is erected or any new use is established.
   B.   Expansion and Change in Use of Existing Buildings. When an expansion of
floor area or change in use classification creates an increase of ten (10)
percent or more in the number of required on-site parking or loading spaces,
on-site parking and loading shall be provided according to the provisions of
this chapter.
   C.   Reconstruction. Additional parking spaces are not required for the
remodel or reconstruction of an existing building when there is no increase in
footprint or floor area.
   D.   Alterations that Increase Number of Dwelling Units. If an alteration to
an existing building increases the number of residential dwelling units on the
site, on-site parking to serve the new dwelling units shall be provided
according to the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   When Constructed. On-site parking and loading facilities required by
this chapter shall be constructed or installed prior to the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy for the uses that they serve. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
304.03: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Existing Parking and Loading to be Maintained. No existing parking or
loading serving any use may be reduced in amount or changed in design, location
or maintenance below the requirements for such use, unless equivalent
substitute parking or loading facilities are provided or a parking reduction is
approved pursuant to Section
304.06, Parking Reductions.
   B.   Use of Required Parking Spaces. Required on-site parking areas shall be
used exclusively for the temporary parking of vehicles and shall not be used
for the sale, lease, display, repair, or storage of vehicles, trailers, boats,
campers, mobile homes, merchandise, or equipment, or for any other use, unless
specifically authorized by another provision of this Ordinance.
   C.   Nonconforming Parking or Loading. An existing use of land or structure
shall not be deemed to be nonconforming solely because of a lack of on-site
parking or loading facilities required by this chapter, provided that
facilities used for on-site parking and loading as of the date of adoption of
this Ordinance are not reduced in number to less than that required by this
chapter. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
304.04: REQUIRED PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Minimum Number of Spaces Required. Each land use shall be provided at
least the number of on-site parking spaces stated in
Table 304.04(A).
   B.   Calculation of Required Spaces. The number of required parking spaces
shall be calculated according to the following rules:
      1.   Fractions. If the calculation of required parking or loading spaces
results in the requirement of a fractional space, such fraction, if one-half
(0.5) or greater, shall be considered one (1) additional space; if the fraction
is less than one-half (0.5), it shall result in no additional spaces.
      2.   Floor Area. Where an on-site parking or loading requirement is
stated as a ratio of parking spaces to floor area, the floor area is assumed to
be gross floor area, unless otherwise stated.
      3.   Employees. Where an on-site parking or loading requirement is stated
as a ratio of parking spaces to employees, the number of employees shall be
based on the largest shift that occurs in a typical week.
      4.   Bedrooms. Where an on-site parking requirement is stated as a ratio
of parking spaces to bedrooms, any rooms having the potential of being a
bedroom and meeting the standard of the Building Code as a bedroom shall be
counted as a bedroom.
      5.   Students or Clients. Where a parking or loading requirement is
stated as a ratio of parking spaces to students (including children in day
care), the number is assumed to be the number of students or clients at the
state-certified capacity.
      6.   Seats. Where parking requirements are stated as a ratio of parking
spaces to seats, each eighteen (18) inches of bench-type seating at maximum
seating capacity is counted as one (1) seat.
   C.   Existing Spaces-Role in Parking Calculation. The number of parking or
loading spaces required for an expansion or change in use, shall be based on
the existing spaces plus the additional spaces prescribed in this section,
unless the preexisting number is already greater than the number required.
   D.   Downtown Parking-Role in Parking Calculation. For properties in the
Downtown districts, on-street parking spaces may be counted toward required
off-street parking for non-residential uses in an amount equal to the
proportionate share of the block face. For example, a site that occupies
twenty-five (25) percent of the block face is credited with twenty-five (25)
percent of the on-street parking spaces along that block face. These provisions
apply to street frontages where on-street parking is allowed as identified in
304.07 Downtown Parking Districts.
   E.   Sites with Multiple Uses. If more than one (1) use is located on a
site, the number of required on-site parking spaces and loading spaces shall be
equal to the sum of the requirements prescribed for each use unless a reduction
for shared parking is approved pursuant to Section
304.06(b), Shared Parking, and except for commercial centers with two (2) or
more commercial establishments, which shall be provided parking at a ratio of
one (1) parking space per three hundred (300) square feet of floor area if the
floor area is more than fifty thousand (50,000) square feet.
   F.   Uses Not Specified. The parking requirement for any use not listed in
Table 304.04(A) shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator based upon the
requirements for the most similar comparable use, the particular
characteristics of the proposed use, and any other relevant data regarding
parking demand. In order to make this determination, the Zoning Administrator
may require the applicant to submit a parking demand study or other
information, at the applicant’s cost.
   G.   Parking Requirements Determined by Zoning Administrator. Where the
parking requirement in
Table 304.04(A) is listed as “to be determined by the Zoning Administrator,”
the Zoning Administrator shall establish the parking requirement based on the
particular characteristics of the proposed use, and any other relevant data
regarding parking demand. The Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to
submit parking studies or any other information needed to assess parking demand
for the proposed project. Where a Conditional Use Permit is required for the
use, the ultimate parking requirement will be established by the Conditional
Use Permit.
   H.   Queuing Area. The number of parking spaces required by
Table 304.04(A) does not include queuing space that may be required for
vehicles and customers waiting in vehicles for service at drive-through
facilities, pump stations, auto service bays, or similar uses. Queuing Area
shall provide space for six (6) vehicles (restaurants shall provide spacing
from the menu board). In lieu of this standard, a focused traffic study which
models vehicular queuing may be prepared subject to Zoning Administrator
approval. The stacking area shall not interfere with other on-site circulation
and parking facilities. Where required, queuing area shall be measured as
twenty (20) feet per car.
TABLE 304.04A: REQUIRED ON SITE PARKING SPACES
Land Use Classification Required Parking Spaces
Land Use               Required Parking Spaces
Classification
Residential use classifications:
Single-family,
detached               2 covered parking for each dwelling unit
Single-family,
attached
Second unit            See section 301.16, “Second Dwelling Units”, of this
                       series
                       1 per studio unit. 1.5 per 1 bedroom unit. 2 per 2
                       bedroom unit or 3 bedroom unit.
Multi-family           Additional bedrooms above 3: 0.5 space/bedroom. 1 space
residential            for each unit shall be designated for the unit and
                       covered. 1 additional guest parking space shall be
                       provided for every 5 units
Small family daycare   None, beyond what is required for the residential use
home
Large family daycare   1 per nonresident employee. 1 passenger loading space,
home                   on or off site. (Required spaces are in addition to
                       those required for the primary residential use.)
Group residential      1 per bed, bedroom, or dwelling unit, whichever is
                       greatest, plus 1 guest parking space per 3 units
Manufactured home park 2 on-site spaces for each dwelling unit. At least 1
                       required space shall be covered. Tandem parking allowed
Residential care,      None, beyond what is required for the residential use
limited
Public and semipublic use classifications:
Cemetery               To be determined by the zoning administrator
                       1 for each 3 permanent seats in main assembly area, or 1
Clubs and lodges       for every 50 square feet of assembly area where
                       temporary or movable seats are provided
Colleges and trade     To be determined by the zoning administrator based on
schools, public or     parking demand study
private
Community center       To be determined by the zoning administrator
Cultural institutions:  
                       1 for each 3 permanent seats in main assembly area, or 1
For theaters and       for every 50 square feet of assembly area where
auditoriums            temporary or movable seats are provided. Galleries and
                       Museums: 1 for every 400 sq. ft. of floor area. Other
                       establishments: determined by the Zoning Administrator.
Daycare center         1 per first 5 clients, plus 1 for each additional 10
                       clients
Elderly and long term   
care:
For first 10 beds      1 per 2 beds
Additional beds        1 additional space for each 4 beds
Government offices     1 per 300 square feet of floor area
Instructional services 1 per 300 square feet of floor area
Park and recreation    To be determined by the zoning administrator
facilities, public
Public safety          To be determined by the zoning administrator
facilities
                       1 for each 3 permanent seats in main assembly area, or 1
Religious facilities   for every 50 square feet of assembly area where
                       temporary or movable seats are provided
Residential care,       
general:
For first 10 beds      1 per 2 beds
Additional beds        1 additional space for each 4 beds
Schools, public or      
private:
Elementary and middle  1 per classroom, plus 1 per 250 square feet of office
schools                area
High schools           0.35 per student
Social service         1 per 200 square feet of floor area
facilities
Commercial use classifications:
Aircraft sales,        To be determined by the zoning administrator
services, and storage
Animal care, sales and  
services:
Kennels                1 per 1,000 square feet of floor area
Pet store              1 per 250 square feet of floor area
Veterinary services    1 per 250 square feet of floor area
Artists’ studios     1 per 1,000 square feet of floor area
Automobile/vehicle      
sales and services:
Automobile/vehicle     1 per 250 square feet of office area in addition to
rentals                spaces for all vehicles for rent
                       1 per 250 square feet of office area, plus 1 space per
Automobile/vehicle     1,000 square feet of indoor or outdoor sales display
sales and leasing      area
                       Any accessory auto repair: 2 spaces per service bay.
                       Minimum 5 spaces per dealership
Automobile/vehicle     2 per service bay
repair, major or minor
Automobile/vehicle     Minimum 1 space for automatic facilities, minimum 3
washing                spaces for other facilities, plus 1 space per 250 square
                       feet of any indoor sales, office, or lounge areas
Large vehicle and      1 per 250 square feet of office area plus 1 per 2,500
equipment sales,       square feet of sales display area
service and rental
Service station        2 per service bay, if service bays are included on site.
                       1 per 200 square feet of any convenience store on site
Towing and impound     1 per 500 square feet of building area plus 1 per 0.5
                       acre of gross outdoor use area
Banks and financial
institutions (all      1 per 300 square feet of floor area
subclassifications)
Building materials     1 per 400 square feet of floor area; 1 per 600 square
services               feet of outdoor display area
Business services      1 per 300 square feet of floor area
Commercial
entertainment and       
recreation:
Establishments with    1 for each 3 permanent seats in main assembly area, or 1
seating                for every 50 square feet of assembly area where
                       temporary or movable seats are provided
Bowling alleys         3 per lane
Other commercial
entertainment and      To be determined by zoning administrator
recreation uses
Eating, drinking, and
smoking                 
establishments:
Bars/nightclubs/       Minimum 2 spaces. 1 per 75 square feet of customer
lounges                seating area
Coffee shops/cafes     Minimum 2 spaces. 1 per 100 square feet of customer
                       seating area
                       Minimum 2 spaces. 1 per 75 square feet of customer
Restaurants            seating area; no parking is required for outdoor seating
                       when seats provided equal 50 percent or less of total
                       indoor seating
Tobacco bars           Minimum 2 spaces. 1 per 75 square feet of customer
                       seating area
Food and beverage      1 per 250 square feet of floor area
retail sales
Funeral parlors and    1 for each 4 permanent seats in assembly areas, plus 1
mortuaries             per 250 square feet of office area
                       1 per each living or sleeping unit, plus 2 spaces
                       adjacent to registration office. Additional parking
Hotels and motels      required for ancillary uses, such as restaurants,
                       according to the parking requirements for the ancillary
                       use
Light fleet-based      1 per 250 square feet of office floor area, plus 1 space
services               for each fleet vehicle
Maintenance and repair 1 per 350 square feet of building floor area, plus 1
services               space for each fleet vehicle
Medical facilities:     
                       1 per bed; plus 1 per 250 square feet of area used for
Hospital               office, clinics, testing, research, administration, and
                       similar activities associated with the principal use
Medical clinic         1 per 200 square feet
Single physician       1 per 175 square feet
office
Nurseries and garden   1 per 250 square feet of floor area, plus 1 per 500
centers                square feet of outside display or greenhouse area
Offices (all           1 per 250 square feet of floor area
subclassifications)
Parking, public or     1 per attendant station (in addition to the spaces that
private                are available to public)
Personal services      1 per 200 square feet of floor area
Retail sales:           
Less than 50,000       1 per 250 square feet of floor area
square feet
50,000 square feet or  1 per 300 square feet of floor area
more
Salvage and wrecking   1 per 500 square feet of building area plus 1 per 0.5
                       acre of gross outdoor use area
Sexually oriented      As determined by the zoning administrator based upon
business               requirements for the most similar comparable use
Wholesaling and        1 per 2,000 square feet of floor area
distribution
Industrial use classifications:
Construction and       To be determined by zoning administrator
materials yards
Handicraft/custom      1 per 2,000 square feet of floor area
manufacturing
Industry, general      1 per 1,000 square feet of floor area
Industry, limited      1 per 1,000 square feet of floor area
Recycling collection    
facilities:
Recycling collection   Minimum 1 space. Number of additional spaces to be
point                  determined by the zoning administrator
Recycling processing   1 for each 2 employees on the maximum work shift, or 1
facility               per 1,000 square feet of floor area, whichever is
                       greater
Warehousing and         
storage:
Chemical, mineral, and 1 per 2 employees or 1 per 200 square feet of office
explosives storage     area, whichever is greater
Indoor commercial      1 per 1,000 square feet of floor area
storage
Outdoor storage        1 per 2 employees or 1 per 200 square feet of office
                       area, whichever is greater
                       1 space per 75 storage units, plus 1 space per 300
Personal storage       square feet of office area. A minimum of 5 spaces shall
                       be provided
Transportation, communication, and utilities use classifications:
Airports and heliports To be determined by the zoning administrator
Communication           
facilities:
Antennas and           Minimum 1 space for maintenance and servicing.
transmission towers    Additional spaces to be determined by the zoning
                       administrator
Facilities within      To be determined by the zoning administrator
buildings
Freight/truck          1 for each 2 employees on the maximum work shift, or 1
terminals and          for each 3,000 square feet of floor area, whichever is
warehouses             greater
Transportation         To be determined by the zoning administrator
passenger terminals
Utilities, major       To be determined by the zoning administrator
Utilities, minor       None
Agriculture and extractive use classifications:
Crop and animal        1 for every 2 employees on the maximum shift
raising
Mining and quarrying   1 for every 2 employees on the maximum shift
 
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019; amd. Ord.1909, 1-21-2025)
304.05: LOCATION OF REQUIRED PARKING:
   A.   Single-Family Dwellings and Second Units. Required parking for a
Single-Family Dwelling (except a manufactured home located within a
manufactured home park) and a Second Unit shall be located on the same lot as
the dwelling(s) served, and shall not be located within a required front or
street-facing side yard. For purposes of this section, the required front yard
setback is twenty (20) feet.
   B.   Multi-Family Residential, Group Housing, and Manufactured Homes.
Required parking for Multi-Family Residential, Group Housing, manufactured
homes located in a manufactured home park, and other residential uses, shall be
located on the same lot as the dwelling served, or in a common parking area not
more than four hundred (400) feet from the dwellings served. If located in a
common parking area, a parking agreement shall be filed as provided in
Subsection (d)(2) of this section. Parking shall not be located within a
required front or street-facing side yard.
   C.   Nonresidential Uses. Required parking spaces serving commercial,
industrial, and other non-residential uses shall be located on the same lot as
the use they serve, or in an off-site parking facility as provided in
Subsection (d) of this section.
   D.   Off-Site Parking Facilities. A parking facility serving one (1) or more
non-residential uses located on a site other than the site of one (1) or more
such use(s) may be approved if the standards of this subsection are met.
   1.   Location. Any off-site parking facility shall be located within four
hundred (400) feet, along a pedestrian route, of the principal entrance
containing the use(s) for which the parking is required.
   2.   Parking Agreement. A written agreement between the landowner(s) and the
City shall be filed, in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney, and
including:
      a.   A guarantee among the landowner(s) for access to and use of the
parking facility;
      b.   A guarantee that the spaces to be provided will be maintained and
reserved for the uses served for as long as such uses are in operation; and
      c.   Evidence that the agreement has been recorded in the County
Recorder’s office.
FIGURE 304.05: LOCATION OF REQUIRED PARKING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3739.png]
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
304.06: PARKING REDUCTIONS:
The number of on-site motor vehicle parking spaces required by
Table 304.04(A) may be reduced in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   A.   Residential Uses. If a developer can demonstrate that a Multi-Family
Residential, Group Residential, or service-oriented housing project designed
for residents with special needs, such as senior citizens or handicapped
individuals, will not generate a need for as much parking as such a project
designed for a general market, the City Council shall have the authority to
allow a reduction in the number of required parking spaces. Upon conversion of
a senior citizen or other special needs group housing project to a general
market apartment or condominium complex, parking shall be provided consistent
with the requirements of
Table 304.04(A).
   B.   Shared Parking. Where a shared parking facility serving more than one
(1) use will be provided, the total number of required parking spaces may be
reduced with a Minor Conditional Use Permit, if the City Council finds that all
of the following are true:
      1.   The peak hours of use will not overlap or coincide to the degree
that peak demand for parking spaces from all uses will be greater than the
total supply of spaces;
      2.   The adequacy of the quantity and efficiency of parking provided will
equal or exceed the level that can be expected if parking for each use were
provided separately;
      3.   A parking demand study prepared by an independent qualified
professional approved by the City supports the proposed reduction; and
      4.   In the case of a shared parking facility that serves more than one
(1) property, a parking agreement has been prepared consistent with the
provisions of Section
304.05(d), Off-Site Parking Facilities.
   C.   Other Parking Reductions. Required parking for any use may be reduced
through approval of a Minor Conditional Use Permit.
      1.   Criteria for Approval. The City Council shall consider the following
before approving a Minor Conditional Use Permit.
         a.   The required findings in Chapter 605, Conditional Use Permits are
met.
         b.   Special conditions-including but not limited to the nature of the
proposed operation, proximity to frequent transit service, transportation
characteristics of persons residing, working, or visiting the site, or because
the applicant has undertaken a transportation demand management program-exist
that will reduce parking demand at the site;
         c.   The use will adequately be served by the proposed parking; and
         d.   Parking demand generated by the project will not exceed the
capacity of or have a detrimental impact on the supply of on-street parking in
the surrounding area.
      2.   Parking Demand Study. In order to evaluate a proposed project’s
compliance with the above criteria, the Zoning Administrator may require
submittal of a parking demand study that substantiates the basis for granting a
reduced number of spaces and includes any of the following information, as
directed by the City:
         a.   Total square footage of all uses within existing and proposed
development and the square footage devoted to each type of use.
         b.   A survey of existing on-street and on-site parking within three
hundred fifty (350) feet of the project site.
         c.   Parking requirements for the net change in square footage and/or
change in use, based on the requirements of
Table 304.04(A).
         d.   Estimated net change in parking demand between existing and
proposed development, using any available existing parking generation studies
from the Institute for Transportation Engineers (ITE) or other sources. If
appropriate parking demand studies are not available, the City may require the
applicant to conduct a parking demand survey of a development similar to the
proposed.
         e.   Comparison of proposed parking supply with parking requirements
and net change in parking demand.
         f.   A shared parking analysis, as appropriate.
         g.   A description of possible Transportation Demand Management
measures, such as preferential carpool spaces, telecommuting or staggered works
shifts, provision of transit passes or other transit incentives for residents
or employees, incorporation of spaces for car share vehicles, bicycles, or
other measures that could result in reduced parking demand.
         h.   Other information as required by the City. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-
2019)
304.07: DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose. The City has established two (2) downtown parking districts in
the downtown area in recognition that due to the concentration and mix of uses
in the downtown area, parking spaces will be shared among uses and the actual
demand for spaces in these areas is less than what would otherwise be
necessary. In addition, the proximity to the City transit center further
reduces parking demand in these areas.
   B.   Required Parking Spaces. The number of off-street parking spaces
required within the zones of Downtown Parking District No. 1, as shown in
Figure 304.07(A), shall not be less than stated in
 Table 304.07(B). The number of off-street parking spaces in Downtown Parking
District No. 2, as shown in Figure
304.07(B) shall be determined by the City Council.
TABLE 304.07B: REQUIRED PARKING SPACES IN DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT NO. 1
 
Zones Of Benefit Required Parking Spaces
Zone A           No parking spaces required for a total of 3 stories of floor
                 area with a basement, if any, included as 1 story
Zone B           1 per 600 square feet of floor area
Zone C           1 per 500 square feet of floor area
Zone D           1 per 400 square feet of floor area
Zone E           1 per 250 square feet of floor area
 
FIGURE 304.07A: DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT NO. 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3741.png]
 
FIGURE 304.07B: DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT NO. 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3743.png]
 
   C.   In Lieu Payments. In lieu of providing the parking spaces required in
Table 304.07(B), the person required to provide said parking spaces may pay to
the City an amount to be established by the City Council. All monies collected
pursuant to this section shall be deposited in a special fund with said fund to
be used only for the purpose of acquisition of properties and construction of
parking spaces within the respective downtown parking district. For all
projects within Downtown Parking District No. 1-Zone E and projects that exceed
two (2) stories in Downtown Parking District No. 2, the in lieu payment option
is subject to City Council approval.
   D.   Exceptions. The following uses are not subject to the parking space
requirements in
Table 304.07(B) and shall instead provide parking in accordance with
Table 304.04(A).
      1.   All residential uses.
      2.   Bowling lanes.
      3.   Commercial Entertainment and Recreation Facilities.
      4.   Drive-In Restaurants.
      5.   Gymnasiums.
      6.   Hotels and Motels.
      7.   Theaters.
   E.   Location of Parking. The parking spaces required by this chapter shall
be located within the boundaries of the respective downtown parking district or
immediately adjacent to the district. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
304.08: BICYCLE PARKING:
Bicycle parking shall comply with the latest edition of the California Green
Building Standards Code, and the location of such parking shall be shown on the
site plan. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
304.09: ON-SITE LOADING:
   A.   Loading Spaces Required. A building, or part thereof, having a floor
area of ten-thousand (10,000) square feet or more that is to be occupied by a
manufacturing plant, storage facility, warehouse facility, retail store,
wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry-cleaning
establishment, or other use similarly requiring the receipt or distribution by
vehicles or trucks of material or merchandise shall provide at least one (1)
on-site loading space, plus one (1) additional loading space for each
additional forty thousand (40,000) square feet of floor area. Such on-site
loading space shall be maintained during the existence of the building or use
that it is required to serve.
      1.   Reduction in Number of Loading Spaces Required. The loading space
requirement may be waived upon a finding that the applicant has satisfactorily
demonstrated that due to the nature of the proposed use, such loading space
will not be needed.
      2.   Additional Loading Spaces Required. The required number of loading
spaces may be increased to ensure that trucks will not be loaded, unloaded, or
stored on public streets. Such requirement shall be based on the anticipated
frequency of truck pickups and deliveries and of the truck storage requirements
of the use for which the on-site loading spaces are required.
   B.   Minimum Size. Each on-site loading space required by this chapter shall
not be less than twelve (12) feet wide, thirty (30) feet long, and fifteen (15)
feet high, exclusive of driveways for ingress and egress and maneuvering areas.
   C.   Driveways for Ingress and Egress and Maneuvering Areas. Each on-site
loading space required by this chapter shall be provided with driveways for
ingress and egress and maneuvering space of the same type and meeting the same
criteria required for on-site parking spaces. Truck-maneuvering areas shall not
encroach into required parking areas, travelways, or street rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
304.10: PARKING AREA DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Handicapped Parking. Each lot or parking structure where parking is
provided for the public as clients, guests, or employees shall include parking
accessible to handicapped or disabled persons as near as practical to a primary
entrance and in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   B.   Compact Parking. On a site with at least ten (10) parking spaces, up to
ten (10) percent of the total required parking spaces may be compact spaces,
provided that the following standards are met:
      1.   In residential parking areas, all parking spaces that are required
to be covered shall be standard size; and
      2.   All compact spaces are to be designated with a sign or pavement
marking.
   C.   Size of Parking Spaces and Maneuvering Aisles. Parking spaces and
maneuvering aisles shall be provided to meet the minimum dimensions required by
this subsection. Screening walls, roof support posts, columns, or other
structural members shall not intrude into the required dimensions for parking
spaces.
      1.   Standard Parking Spaces. The minimum basic dimension for standard
parking spaces is nine (9) feet by twenty (20) feet. This dimension is reduced
to nine (9) feet by eighteen (18) feet where an additional two (2) feet of
sidewalk or landscaped area planted with low growing plants is provided for
vehicle overhang.
Table 304.10(C)(1) provides the dimensions of spaces (stalls) and aisles
according to angle of parking spaces.
TABLE 304.10C1: STANDARD PARKING SPACE AND AISLE DIMENSIONS
 
Angle Of Parking Stall Width Curb Length Per Stall Depth From Aisle Width
                             Stall           Curb             One-Way Two-Way
Parallel         9'0"        23'0"           9'0"             12'     20'
45°             9'0"        12'8"           20'0"            15'     20'
60°             9'0"        10'5"           21'6"            18'     20'
90°             9'0"        9'0"            20'0"            25'     25'
 
FIGURE 304.10C1: STANDARD PARKING SPACES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3745.png]
 
      2.   Compact Parking Spaces. The minimum basic dimension for compact
parking stalls shall be seven (7) feet by sixteen (16) feet.
      3.   Parking Spaces Abutting Wall or Fence. Parking spaces shall be
located a minimum of two (2) feet from any wall, fence, column, or other
obstruction higher than one-half (0.5) feet.
      4.   Long-term Parking. In parking areas, or portions of parking areas,
restricted to employee use rather than customer or visitor use, and in which a
vehicle is not normally moved during the period of an employee’s work shift,
the width of parking spaces may be reduced to eight and one-half (8.5) feet and
the stall depth for standards spaces may be reduced to eighteen (18) feet.
      5.   Minimum Dimensions for Residential Carports. Each single-car carport
shall measure at least eleven (11) feet wide by twenty (20) feet long. Each
double carport shall measure at least twenty (20) feet wide by twenty (20) feet
long. The width of the carport is to be measured from inside face of support to
inside face of opposite support. The carport roof shall cover the entire twenty
(20) feet length of the space.
FIGURE 304.10C5: MINIMUM DIMENSIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL CARPORTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3747.png]
      6.   Minimum Dimensions for Residential Enclosed Garages. Enclosed
garages serving residential uses shall be constructed to meet the following
minimum inside dimensions.
         a.   A single-car garage shall be at least eleven (11) feet wide and
twenty (20) feet long.
         b.   A double-car garage shall be at least twenty (20) feet wide and
twenty (20) feet long.
   D.   Surfacing:
      1.   Residential. New residences or improvements to an existing residence
of $25,000 or more within a two (2) year period shall provide a paved driveway
consisting of concrete, asphalt concrete, pavers or other like material.
      2.   Non-Residential.
         a.   For parking, aisles, and access drives that are used on a daily
basis asphalt concrete or concrete paving is required.
         b.   For long term parking or storage inside a secured enclosure that
is not used on a daily basis any combination of asphalt concrete, concrete,
pavers, decomposed granite or like material that creates a dust-free surface
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator and the City Engineer.
         c.   Fire access roads shall be designed to carry the traffic loads
anticipated.
         d.   Improvements to parking areas to be utilized for overflow parking
or special events may be approved by the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer
   E.   Parking Lot Striping. All parking stalls shall be clearly outlined with
striping, and all aisles, approach lanes, and turning areas shall be clearly
marked with directional arrows and lines as necessary to provide for safe
traffic movement.
   F.   Perimeter Curbing. A six (6) inch wide and six (6) inch high concrete
curb shall be provided along the outer edge of the parking facility pavement,
except where said pavement abuts a fence or wall. Where a parking facility
abuts an area planned for a future phases of a phased development a timber
barrier or other barrier not less than six (6) inches high may be installed
instead of a curb.
   G.   Lighting. Parking areas designed to accommodate ten (10) or more
vehicles shall be provided with a minimum of one-half (0.5) foot-candle and a
maximum average of three (3) foot-candles of light over the parking surface
during the hours of use from one-half (0.5) hour before dusk until one-half
(0.5) hour after dawn. Lighting design shall be coordinated with the landscape
plan to ensure that vegetation growth will not substantially impair the
intended illumination. Parking lot lighting shall, to the maximum extent
feasible, be designed and installed so that light and glare is not directed
onto residential use areas or adjacent public rights-of-way, consistent with
Chapter 306, Performance Standards.
   H.   Separation From On-Site Buildings. Parking areas shall be separated
from the front and side exterior walls of on-site buildings by walkways at
least four (4) feet in width.
   I.   Landscaping. Landscaping of parking areas shall be provided and
maintained according to the general standards of Chapter 303, Landscaping, as
well as the standards of this subsection. The provisions of this subsection
apply to all uses except Single-Family Dwellings and Duplexes.
      1.   Landscape Area Required. A minimum of ten percent (10%) of any
parking lot area shall be landscaped. For the purpose of calculating required
parking lot landscaping, parking lot areas are deemed to include parking and
loading spaces as well as aisles, vehicle entry and exit areas, and any
adjacent paved areas. Parking lot area does not include enclosed vehicle
storage areas.
      2.   Minimum Planter Dimension. No landscape planter that is to be
counted toward the required landscape area shall be smaller than twenty-five
(25) square feet in area, or four (4) feet in any horizontal dimension,
excluding curbing.
      3.   Layout. Landscaped areas shall be well-distributed throughout the
parking lot area. Parking lot landscaping may be provided in any combination
of:
         a.   Landscaped planting strips at least four (4) feet wide between
rows of parking stalls;
         b.   Landscaped planting strips between parking areas and adjacent
buildings or internal pedestrian walkways;
         c.   Landscaped islands located between parking stalls or at the ends
of rows of parking stalls; and
         d.   On-site landscaping at the parking lot perimeter.
      4.   Required Landscaped Islands. A landscaped island at least six (6)
feet in all interior dimensions and containing at least one (1) fifteen (15)
gallon size tree shall be provided at each end of each interior row of parking
stalls and between all consecutive parking stalls in the following ratios:
         a.   Between every eight (8) stalls in any non-residential
development;
         b.   Between every six (6) consecutive stalls in a residential
development or in a mixed-use development in which residential units overlook
on-site parking areas.
      5.   Landscaped Buffer for Open Parking Adjacent to Right-of-Way. A
landscaped buffer area shall be provided between any surface parking area and
any property line adjacent to a public street. The landscaped buffer shall have
a minimum width as listed below unless a different dimension is specified in
the base district standards applicable to a site.
         a.   Residential Districts: Five (5) feet. Landscaped parkways or
strips between the property line and the sidewalk count toward this
requirement.
         b.   Non-residential Districts: Six (6) feet clear of overhang.
      6.   Landscaped Buffer for Open Parking Abutting Interior Lot Line. A
landscaped area at least three (3) feet wide shall be provided between the
outside edge of any surface parking area and any adjacent lot for the length of
the parking area and a five (5) feet wide landscaped area shall be provided
where commercial abuts an R district.
      7.   Trees. Trees shall be planted to result in fifty percent (50%)
shading of parking lot surface areas within fifteen (15) years. In lieu of
calculating shading, the applicant may provide a tree in landscaped islands
between every six (6) parking spaces consistent with §
304.10(I)(4).
         a.   Distribution. Trees shall be distributed relatively evenly
throughout the parking area.
         b.   Species. Required trees for parking lots shall be selected from a
list of recommended trees maintained by the Community Development Department or
as listed in Sunset’s Western Garden Book, suitable for Region No. 9.
         c.   Minimum Planter Size. Any planting area for a tree shall have a
minimum interior dimension of five (5) feet. Additional space may be required
for some tree species.
FIGURE 304.10I: LANDSCAPING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3749.png]
      8.   Protection of Vegetation.
         a.   Clearance from Vehicles. All landscaped areas shall be designed
so that plant materials, at maturity, are protected from vehicle damage by
providing a minimum two (2) foot clearance of low-growing plants where a
vehicle overhang is permitted.
         b.   Planters. All required parking lot landscaping shall be within
planters bounded by a concrete curb at least six (6) inches wide and six (6)
inches high.
FIGURE 304.10I8: PROTECTION OF VEGETATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3751.png]
 
       9.   Irrigation. All landscaped areas shall be provided with an
automatic sprinkler system.
      10.   Visibility and Clearance. Landscaping in planters at the end of
parking aisles may not obstruct drivers’ vision of vehicular and pedestrian
cross-traffic. Mature trees shall have a foliage clearance maintained at eight
(8) feet from the surface of the parking area. Other plant materials located in
the interior of a parking lot shall not exceed thirty (30) inches in height.
   J.   Circulation and Safety
      1.   Visibility shall be assured for pedestrians, bicyclists, and
motorists entering individual parking spaces, circulating within a parking
facility, and entering or leaving a parking facility.
      2.   Off-street parking and loading areas shall be provided with
sufficient maneuvering room so that all vehicles can enter and exit from a
public street by forward motion only. This standard shall not apply to parking
areas serving Single-Family Dwellings or duplexes served by individual
driveways.
      3.   Parking lots shall be designed so that sanitation, emergency, and
other public service vehicles can provide service without backing unreasonable
distances or making other dangerous or hazardous turning movements.
      4.   Separate vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems shall be
provided where possible. Multi-family residential developments of five (5) or
more units shall be provided pedestrian access that is separate and distinct
from driveways. Parking areas for commercial and mixed-use developments that
are eighty (80) feet or more in depth and/or include fifty (50) or more parking
spaces shall have distinct and dedicated pedestrian access from the commercial
use to parking areas and public sidewalks, according to the following
standards:
         a.   Connection to Public Sidewalk. An on-site walkway shall connect
the main building entry to a public sidewalk on each street frontage. Such
walkway shall be the shortest practical distance between the main building
entry and sidewalk, no more than one hundred twenty-five (125) percent of the
straight-line distance.
         b.   Materials and Width. Walkways shall provide at least five (5)
feet of unobstructed width and be paved with concrete, stone, tile, brick, or
comparable material.
         c.   Identification. Pedestrian walkways shall be clearly
differentiated from driveways, parking aisles, and parking and loading spaces
through the use of elevation changes, a different paving material, or similar
method.
         d.   Separation. Where a pedestrian walkway is parallel and adjacent
to an auto travel lane, it shall be raised and separated from the auto travel
lane by a raised curb at least four (4) inches high, bollards, or other
physical barrier.
FIGURE 304.10J: CIRCULATION AND SAFETY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3753.png]
 
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
304.11: PARKING AND STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL AND LARGE VEHICLES:
Parking and storing of recreational vehicles, boats, campers, trailers and
similar vehicles are prohibited from being stored for a period longer than
seventy-two hours (72) hours in the front yard setback. They may be stored in
the side or rear yard behind a minimum six (6) foot high, solid fence. At no
time are recreational vehicles allowed to be occupied as residences. Connection
to any combination of electrical, water, cable, or sewer facilities is
considered prima fascia evidence of occupation as a residence. At no time shall
commercial vehicles greater than a one-ton rating be parked or stored on
residentially zoned properties. Storage on the street is limited pursuant to
Sections
17-10.4,
17-11.7,
17-11.8, and
17-11.9 of the Porterville Municipal Code. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 305. SIGNS
SECTION:
305.01: Purpose
305.02: Policies
305.03: Applicability
305.04: Design Principles
305.05: Exempt Signs
305.06: Prohibited Signs
305.07: General Standards
305.08: Sign Standards For Residential Districts
305.09: Sign Standards For Non-residential Districts
305.10: Standards For Specific Types Of Signs
305.11: Temporary Signs
305.12: Permits Required; Review Process
305.13: Master Sign Program
305.14: Nonconforming Signs
305.15: Abatement And Removal Of Illegal Signs
305.01: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations to ensure the orderly
display of signs as a city-wide information system, consistent with State and
Federal law. These regulations recognize the desire and need of each
individual, business, firm or corporation to identify its place of residence,
business or service, and realizing that the indiscriminate erection, location,
illumination, coloring, size, and lack of proper maintenance of signs and
advertising structures constitutes a significant contributing factor
detrimental to the well-being and continuing activity of a city’s people and
economy. Specifically, these regulations are intended to:
   A.   Assure that all signs and advertising structures are designed, erected
and maintained in a manner to enhance, rather than detract from, the ultimate
design and appearance of the affected locality, and do not impair the view of
nearby or adjacent signs;
   B.   Prohibit the installation and maintenance of signs or advertising
structures that unduly distract motorists’ attention from driving, and which
detract from attention to traffic movement and to signs and signals promoting
traffic safety;
   C.   Prevent the installation and maintenance of signs or advertising
structures that individually or collectively have an injurious effect on the
morale of the people and the economic well-being of the city;
   D.   Assure that size and location of signs and advertising structures do
not constitute an obstacle to effective fire protection and firefighting
techniques; nor constitute a direct or potential danger to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, especially in the event of structural failure during the
period of inclement weather and earthquakes or in the event of impaired vision
due to improper size or location; and
   E.   Otherwise protect the public health, safety, morale, and promote the
public welfare. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.02: POLICIES:
The policies and principles stated in this Section apply to all signs within
the regulatory scope of this Chapter, and to all procedures set forth in, or
invoked by, this Chapter. These policies are to prevail over any other
provision to the contrary, even if more specific.
   A.   Permit Requirement. Unless expressly exempted by a provision of this
Chapter, or by other applicable law, signs within the regulatory scope of this
Chapter may be displayed only pursuant to a permit issued by the City.
   B.   Message Neutrality. It is the City’s policy to regulate signs in a
constitutional manner, which is content neutral as to noncommercial signs and
viewpoint neutral as to commercial signs.
   C.   Regulatory Interpretations. All regulatory interpretations of this
Chapter are to be exercised in light of the City’s message neutrality policy.
Where a particular type of sign is proposed in a permit application, and the
type is neither expressly allowed nor prohibited by this Chapter, or wherever a
sign does not qualify as a “structure” as defined in the Building Code, then
the Zoning Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove
the application based on the most similar sign type that is expressly regulated
by this Chapter.
   D.   Substitution of Messages. Subject to the property owner’s consent, a
noncommercial message of any type may be substituted for any duly permitted or
allowed noncommercial message, provided that the sign structure or mounting
device is legal without consideration of the message content. Such substitution
of message may be made without any additional approval or permitting. This
provision prevails over any more specific provision to the contrary within this
Chapter. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent favoring
of commercial speech over any other noncommercial message. This provision does
not create the right to increase the total amount of signage on a parcel, lot
or land use; does not affect the requirement that a sign structure or mounting
device be properly permitted; does not allow a change in the physical structure
of a sign or its mounting device; does not allow the substitution of an off-
site commercial message in place of an on-site commercial message; and does not
allow one particular on-site commercial message to be substituted for another
without a permit.
   E.   Rules for Non-communicative Aspects of Signs. All rules and regulations
concerning the non-communicative aspects of signs, such as location, size,
height, illumination, spacing, orientation, etc., stand enforceable
independently of any permit or approval process.
   F.   Situs of Non-commercial Message Signs. The onsite/offsite distinction
applies only to commercial messages on signs.
   G.   Property Owner’s Consent. No sign may be displayed without the consent
of the legal owner(s) of the property on which the sign is mounted or
displayed. For purposes of this policy, “owner” means the holder of the legal
title to the property and all parties and persons holding a present right to
possession, control or use of the property.
   H.   Legal Nature of Signage Rights and Duties. As to all signs attached to
property, real or personal, the signage rights, duties and obligations arising
from this Chapter attach to and travel with the land or other property on which
a sign is mounted or displayed. This provision does not modify or affect the
law of fixtures, sign-related provisions in private leases regarding signs (so
long as they are not in conflict with this Chapter), or the ownership of sign
structures.
   I.   Sign Programs. Sign programs for specific developments, as well as
special sign districts or special sign overlay zones, when approved by the
Approving Authority, may modify the rules stated herein as to sign size,
height, number, illumination, spacing, orientation or other non-communication
aspects of signs, but may not override or modify any of the Basic Policies
stated in this Section. All the provisions of this Section shall automatically
apply to, and be deemed a part of, any sign program after the date on which
this provision is initially adopted.
   J.   Severance. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, word, portion or
provision of this Chapter is held invalid, or unconstitutional, or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not
affect, impair, or invalidate any other section, sentence, clause, phrase,
word, portion, or provision of this Chapter which can be given effect without
the invalid portion. In adopting this Chapter, the City Council affirmatively
declares that it would have approved and adopted the Chapter even without any
portion which may be held invalid or unenforceable. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.03: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements and development standards in this chapter apply to signs in
all zoning districts, unless otherwise specified. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.04: DESIGN PRINCIPLES:
   A.   Architectural Compatibility. A sign (including its supporting
structure, if any) shall be designed as an integral design element of a
building’s architecture and architecturally compatible, including color and
scale, with any building to which the sign is to be attached and with
surrounding structures. A sign that spills over “natural” boundaries or
architectural features and obliterates parts of upper floors of buildings, or
is detrimental to visual order is not permitted.
   B.   Consistency with Area Character. A sign shall be consistent with
distinct area or district characteristics and incorporate common design
elements such as sign materials or themes. Where a sign is located in close
proximity to a residential area, the sign shall be designed and located so it
has little or no impact on adjacent residential neighborhoods.
   C.   Legibility. The proportion of the elements of the sign’s message,
including logos, letters, icons and other graphic images, shall be selected
based on the anticipated distance and travel speed of the viewer. Colors chosen
for the sign text and/or graphics shall have sufficient contrast with the sign
background in order to be easily read during both day and night hours.
FIGURE 305.04C: LEGIBILITY OF SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3755.png]
 
   D.   Finish. Signs shall have finished edges with a clean, smooth,
consistent surface. Lettering on the sign is to be of complementary size,
proportion and font and either carved, routed, painted or applied.
   E.   Visibility. A sign shall be conspicuous and readily distinguishable
from its surroundings. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.05: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter,
and they do not count toward the total sign number or area limit for a site,
provided that they conform to the specified standards and obtain building
permits when required by law.
   A.   Signs for historical or memorial buildings, when constructed of bronze
or other incombustible materials or cut into any masonry surface and installed
by a civic organization recognized by the City Council.
   B.   A temporary attachment or covering of wood, plastic, or canvas over a
permanent sign may be displayed no longer than thirty (30) days following the
change of ownership, or up to ninety (90) days following issuance of a building
permit. The sign shall be no larger than the previously permitted permanent
sign.
   C.   One (1) sign, with a maximum sign area of thirty-two (32) square feet,
per street frontage on real property where construction, structural alteration
or repair is to take place, or is taking place. Construction signs shall be
removed upon final building inspection.
   D.   Signs, not more than four (4) square feet in area, incorporated into
displays, machinery or equipment by a manufacturer, distributor or vendor, such
as signs customarily fixed to automated teller machines (ATMs), gasoline pumps,
vending machines, menu boards and umbrellas, such as those represented in
Figure 305.05(D).
FIGURE 305.05D: EQUIPMENT SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3757.png]
   E.   Flags. Flags with the display of only noncommercial speech.
   F.   Handbills. Handbills, Advertising Circulars, Etc., must comply with the
standards and licensing contained in Chapter 3, Article II, of the Porterville
Municipal Code.
   G.   A maximum of one sign per apartment house, boarding or rooming house,
or similar use, not exceeding six (6) square feet in area.
   H.   A maximum of two signs per building within six feet of the building
entrances for commercial, industrial, and office uses, not exceeding six square
feet per building. Government uses, in addition to the aforementioned six
square feet per building, may include not more than one shadowbox with not more
than ten square feet of display area.
   I.   Up to two on-site signs for public or private developments, not
exceeding four (4) square feet in area per face, and not exceeding forty-eight
inches in height, provided such signs are not prohibited or further regulated
by other sections of this or any other chapter of the Porterville Municipal
Code. Uses that include a drive-through service window are allowed one
additional sign per this exemption.
   J.   Properties or lease spaces may display not more than one (1) on-site
sign with a maximum size of six (6) square feet (excluding rider signs no
larger than a total of six (6) square feet) and a maximum height of six (6)
feet in the R districts, and a maximum size of thirty-two (32) square feet and
a maximum height of eight (8) feet in all other districts, per street frontage
of a parcel when the property is currently for sale or rent. Such signs shall
be removed within 5 days following close of escrow or finalization of sale,
rental or lease.
   K.   Reader Panels. Permanent reader panels for public, charitable, or
religious institutions provided said reader panels are located on the property
to which such reader panels pertain and do not exceed twenty (20) square feet
in total area per face nor more than ten (10) feet in height, and further
provided said reader panels are located in such a manner as not to constitute a
hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic. Electronic reader boards which
otherwise comply with the signage requirements of the zone in which they are
located, and do not include animation, characters, flashing, or similar rapid
movements, and which are programmed to change messages no more frequently than
once every three (3) seconds shall also be allowed as exempt signs for public,
charitable or religious institutions.
   L.   One sign per business provided by said business, which sponsors and
contributes to the sports activities upon public premises, not to exceed
thirty-six (36) square feet in area, per site shall be permitted for a period
not to exceed ninety (90) days preceding the event or season. Such sign shall
be removed within fifteen (15) days after the event or season.
   M.   Bus stop, shelter, and bench advertisement displays as permitted by the
Transit Advertising Policy.
   N.   Up to four (4) signs placed by the City of Porterville and owned or
funded by the City, around the periphery of the city limit at major
transportation routes, within public rights of way, or on property owned by a
third party, as authorized by that party. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.06: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following types of signs and devices are specifically prohibited:
   A.   Animated, Flashing or Moving Signs. Signs that incorporate, flashing,
moving, rotating, pulsating or intermittent lighting, with the exception of
changeable copy message center display signs and barber poles, except as
allowed elsewhere in this chapter. Any sign that, because of brilliant
lighting, interferes with the enjoyment of surrounding residential property or
interferes with traffic, vehicular or pedestrian, is prohibited.
   B.   Balloons, Banners, Streamers and Pennants. Signs, balloons, banners,
pennants, or any other advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light
fabric, paper, cardboard, wallboard or other light materials, except awnings or
as allowed for Automobile/Vehicle Sales and Leasing establishments, or in
Section
305.11, Temporary Signs.
   C.   Billboards. Any sign directing attention to a business, service, or
product that is not conducted, sold, produced, or offered by any use on the
same lot, or which identifies by brand name a product which, although sold on
the premises, does not constitute one (1) of the principal items for sale on
the premises unless otherwise provided by the California Outdoor Advertising
Act (Business and Professions Code Sections 5200 - 5486, inclusive).
   D.   Emissions. Signs that produce noise in excess of forty (40) decibels,
excluding voice units at drive-through facilities, and signs that emit odor or
visible smoke, vapor or particles.
   E.   Fence Signs. Signs attached or painted on fences or freestanding walls
that are not part of a building, except for subdivision entry signs as allowed
in Section
305.08 (b).
   F.   Obscenities. Signs that depict, describe or relate to “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” as defined in Chapter 700, Terms
and Definitions.
   G.   Obstructions to Exits. Signs erected, constructed or maintained which
obstruct any firefighting equipment, fire escape, required exit or door opening
intended as a means of egress, unless approved by the Fire Marshal.
   H.   Obstructions to Driver Visibility. Signs in corner cut-offs and lines
of sight in accordance with the provisions of Section
300.16, Visibility at Driveways and Intersections.
   I.   Obstructions to Ventilation. Signs that interfere with any opening
required for ventilation.
   J.   Portable Signs. Signs not permanently attached to, mounted upon or
affixed to a building, structure or the ground, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   K.   Posters. Posters of a temporary character that are tacked, painted,
pasted or otherwise placed or affixed and made visible from a public way, on
the walls of buildings, on barns, sheds, trees, fences, utility poles or other
structures, sidewalks or patios, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
This section excludes signs placed in windows per Section
305.10 (e).
   L.   Roof Signs. Signs erected or painted upon, over or above the roof of a
building or structure, or any sign affixed to the wall of a building so that it
projects above the ridge line or top of parapet, except as allowed in this
chapter.
FIGURE 305.06L: ROOF SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3759.png]
   M.   Signs Creating Traffic Hazards. Signs that simulate in color, size or
design any traffic control sign, signal or device, or that make use of words,
symbols or characters in a manner that interferes with, misleads or confuses
pedestrian or vehicular traffic. No sign, light or advertising structure shall
be located in such a manner as to constitute a hazard to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, or in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, at
any location where, by reason of the position, shape, color or movement may
interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device.
   N.   Signs of public property. Signs located on public lands, including but
not limited to public rights of way, parks, public buildings, storm drainage
basins, and facilities are prohibited. When associated with rental or
reservation of such facility, signs may be placed during the event for which
the reservation was made; however, such signs must be removed at the end of the
reservation period. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.07: GENERAL STANDARDS:
This section establishes general physical standards and requirements. More
detailed standards applicable to specific sign types (e.g. wall signs, awning
signs) are in Section
305.10, Standards for Specific Sign Types. In addition to these general
standards, all signs shall conform to the specifications of Municipal Code
Chapter 3, Advertising and Signs.
   A.   Maximum Allowable Sign Area. All signs shall conform to the maximum
area requirements specified in
Table 305.09, unless a different limit is approved under a Master Sign Program.
   B.   Measuring Sign Area. Sign area includes the entire face of a framed
sign, but does not include the supporting structure. Individual letters
attached to a building shall be measured by the area enclosed by a continuous
line outlining the perimeter of the words, emblems, and logos.
FIGURE 305.07B: MEASURING SIGN AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3761.png]
 
      1.   Double-Faced Signs. For double-faced signs, only one (1) side shall
be counted as the total area. Where the faces are not equal in size, the larger
sign face shall be used as the basis for calculating sign area.
      2.   Multi-faced Signs. The sign area of signs with three (3) or more
sign faces shall be calculated as the sum of two (2) sign faces. Where the
faces are not equal in size, the larger sign faces shall be used as the basis
for calculating sign area.
      3.   Three-dimensional Signs. Signs that consist of, or have attached to
them, one (1) or more three-dimensional objects (i.e. balls, cubes, clusters of
objects, sculpture, or statue-like trademarks), shall have a sign area of the
sum of two (2) adjacent sides or sign faces.
FIGURE 305.07B3: THREE-DIMENSIONAL SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3763.png]
   C.   Abandoned Signs. Any sign, including its supporting structure, which no
longer identifies the current occupant after a lapse of ninety (90) days, shall
be deemed an abandoned sign and shall be removed by the owner of the property
on which it is located. When a wall sign is removed, the wall behind the sign
shall be repaired and painted to match the rest of the building wall. Any signs
not removed or made blank within this time shall be removed pursuant to the
removal procedures set forth in this chapter.
   D.   Building Frontage. Building frontage shall be considered the wall of a
building that faces and is roughly parallel with a public street, excluding an
alley. The linear dimension of that building frontage shall be used to
calculate allowable signage. Buildings with walls facing more than one public
street shall be allowed signage for each building frontage in accordance with
Table 305.09. Buildings located on interior lots (not on a corner) and that are
oriented perpendicular to a public street shall be allowed signage based on the
longer of the front or side building elevation. All, or a percentage, of the
allowable sign area may be transferred to the other building elevations
provided the sign area on any wall shall not exceed the maximum allowable for
that wall in accordance with
Table 305.09. For buildings that have no public street frontage, building
frontage shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   E.   Changeable Copy. Changeable copy shall cover no more than forty (40)
percent of the total sign allowance for manually changeable signs. For
electronic message center signs with copy that can be changed or altered by
electric, electro-mechanical, electronic, or any other artificial energy means,
the changeable portion of the sign shall cover no more than forty (40) percent
of the total sign allowance. The following uses are exempt from this
restriction: religious institutions, cinemas, government or civic uses, gas
station uses, indoor theaters, schools, and colleges.
   F.   Clearance from Utilities. Signs and their supporting structures shall
maintain clearance from and not interfere with electrical conductors,
communications equipment or lines, surface and underground facilities and
conduits for water, sewage, gas, electricity and communications equipment or
lines. Signs shall not be placed in public utility easements unless express
written permission from the affected public utility is obtained.
   G.   Construction and Maintenance:
      1.   Unless exempt, signs and supporting structures shall be installed in
accordance with the latest adopted Building Code.
      2.   All signs, together with all supporting structures, shall be
maintained in the following manner:
         a.   Signs shall be kept free of rust, dirt and chipped, cracked or
peeling paint.
         b.   All hanging, dangling, torn or frayed parts of signs shall be
promptly repaired, and graffiti and unauthorized attachments shall be removed.
         c.   Failed, damaged, or blinking illumination shall be promptly
replaced.
         d.   Sign areas shall be kept free and clear of all noxious
substances, rubbish and weeds.
         e.   Discolored or faded panels on plastic faces shall be restored to
their original condition and color.
   H.   Encroachment into Public Street or Sidewalk. Any sign projecting into a
public right of way requires an encroachment agreement approved by the City
Engineer.
   I.   Illumination. Channel letters, internally illuminated signs and neon
signs are permitted. Bare bulbs visible from the public right of way are
prohibited. On signs with external illumination, lights shall be provided with
proper reflectors to concentrate the illumination on the area of the sign to
prevent glare on the street or adjacent properties. All sign illumination shall
adhere to the performance standards for lighting and glare in Chapter 306,
Performance Standards.
   J.   Materials. Paper, cardboard, untreated plywood and other materials
subject to rapid deterioration shall be limited to signs displayed for no more
than (30) days. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.08: SIGN STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Religious facilities, multi-family residential projects, schools, civic
uses and other nonresidential uses in R districts are allowed one (1) building-
mounted sign and one (1) monument sign with a maximum cumulative sign area of
thirty-two (32) square feet.
   B.   Residential subdivisions are allowed one (1) monument sign or wall sign
per street frontage for entry into the subdivision. Each sign shall not exceed
a maximum size of thirty-two (32) square feet. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.09: SIGN STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Signage in non-residential districts shall comply with the standards in
Table 305.09 unless a different sign area allowed for a specific use is
described elsewhere in this code. Buildings without clearly defined tenant
space frontage shall share total sign area allowed per building as determined
in
Table 305.09. All properties in non-residential districts shall be allowed a
minimum sign area of twenty (20) square feet.
TABLE 305.09
SIGN AREA AND SIGN STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC SIGN TYPES AND ZONING DISTRICTS
Zoning Districts Sign Area Allowed
(Frontage)       (Square Feet Per 1 Linear Foot Of Permitted Sign Types
                 Building Frontage)
Zoning Districts Sign Area Allowed
(Frontage)       (Square Feet Per 1 Linear Foot Of Permitted Sign Types
                 Building Frontage)
                                                   Awning and canopy
                                                   Marquee
   DR-N, D-MX 2                                 Projecting
                                                   Wall
                                                   Window
                                                   Awning and canopy
   D-PO       2                                 Monument
                                                   Projecting
                                                   Window
                                                   Awning and canopy
                                                   Marquee
   D-PS       2                                 Monument
                                                   Projecting
                                                   Wall
                                                   Window
                                                   Awning and canopy
                                                   Marquee
   DR-D, DR-S 2                                 Projecting
                                                   Wall
                                                   Window
                                                   Awning and canopy
                                                   Marquee
   D-GC       2                                 Monument
                                                   Projecting
                                                   Wall
                                                   Window
                                                   Awning and canopy
                                                   Freestanding
                                                   Marquee
   CMX, CN, PO1.5                               Monument
                                                   Projecting
                                                   Wall
                                                   Window
                                                   Awning and canopy
                                                   Freestanding
                                                   Marquee
   CG, CR     3                                 Monument
                                                   Projecting
                                                   Wall
                                                   Window
                                                   Awning and canopy
                                                   Freestanding
                                                   Marquee
   IP, IG, IA 2                                 Monument
                                                   Projecting
                                                   Wall
                                                   Window
                                                   Awning and canopy
                                                   Freestanding
   REC, PK, PS2                                 Monument
                                                   Projecting
                                                   Wall
 
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.10: STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC TYPES OF SIGNS:
   A.   Awning and Canopy Signs. Signs painted on awnings, canopies, arcades,
or similar attachments or structures are allowed. Awning and canopy signs are
subject to the specific zoning district standards and the following standards:
      1.   Maximum Sign Area Per Awning or Canopy Sign:
         a.   Downtown, CMX, and CN districts: twenty-four (24) square feet
         b.   CG, CR, and Employment districts: sixty (60) square feet
      2.   Sign Clearance. Minimum of eight (8) feet.
      3.   Height Limit. Twenty-five (25) feet.
      4.   Number of Signs. Four (4) maximum per building façade, which
includes any wall signs.
   B.   Marquee Signs. A sign permanently affixed to a marquee is allowed in
conjunction with theaters, museums, galleries, and similar uses. Removable copy
may be changed on the face of permitted marquee signs without securing a
permit. Marquee signs are subject to the specific zoning district standards and
the following standards:
      1.   Maximum Number of Signs: One (1) marquee sign per site.
      2.   Maximum Sign Area Per Sign: One and one-half (1.5) square feet per
linear foot of building frontage.
      3.   Sign Clearance. Minimum of eight (8) feet.
FIGURE 305.10B: MARQUEE SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3765.png]
   C.   Projecting Signs. Signs under canopies or covers in conjunction with
pedestrian walkways, or signs projecting from the building wall are allowed,
subject to the specific zoning district standards and the following standards:
      1.   Maximum Number of Signs: One (1) projecting sign per building façade
or tenant space frontage.
      2.   Maximum Sign Area Per Sign: Sixteen (16) square feet; except the
maximum sign area per sign is eight (8) square feet when the sign is located
under a canopy or awning.
      3.   Sign Clearance. Minimum of eight (8) feet.
      4.   Height. A projecting sign shall be erected in such a manner as not
to create a traffic hazard to vehicles or pedestrians. Projecting signs shall
not extend higher than twenty (20) feet above ground level or above an eave or
roof, whichever is lower.
      5.   Projection:
         a.   A projecting sign cannot extend more than three (3) feet from the
building to which it is attached.
         b.   An under-canopy sign, attached to and hanging from an awning or
canopy shall be located completely under the canopy or awning and shall not
project beyond its edge. An under-canopy sign shall not count towards the sign
area allowed.
FIGURE 305.10C: PROJECTING OR UNDER CANOPY SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3767.png]
   D.   Wall Signs. Wall signs include any sign attached to, erected against or
painted upon the wall of a building or structure, the face of which is in a
single plane parallel to the plane of the wall. Wall signs also include signs
on a parapet or mansard roof. Wall signs attached to the fascia shall be
channel letters and shall be architecturally consistent with other signage in
the development. No wall sign may cover wholly or partially any required wall
opening. Wall signs are also subject to the specific zoning district standards
and the following standards:
      1.   Maximum Number of Signs. Four (4) maximum per building façade or
tenant space frontage, which includes any awning or canopy signs.
      2.   Maximum Sign Area Per Sign: Three hundred (300) square feet.
      3.   Height. Wall signs shall not be mounted or placed higher than the
second story and shall not extend higher than the building wall upon which they
are attached.
      4.   Coverage. Wall sign copy shall not occupy more than seventy-five
(75) percent of the length of the wall to which the sign is attached.
      5.   Projection. Wall signs cannot extend more than twelve (12) inches
beyond the face of the wall to which they are attached.
      6.   Design. Wall signs shall be oriented to achieve balance composition
and harmony with other architectural elements of a building façade.
   E.   Window Signs. Window signs painted or otherwise adhered directly onto a
window are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter and do not count
towards the total sign area limit for a site, but are subject to the specific
zoning district standards and the following standards:
      1.   Coverage. Window signs shall cover no more than fifty (50) percent
of the total glass window area along each building façade.
      2.   Height. Window signs shall not be mounted or placed on windows
higher than the second story.
   F.   Monument Signs. Freestanding signs erected on the ground or on a
monument base designed as an architectural unit are allowed, subject to the
following standards:
      1.   Maximum Number of Signs. One (1) monument sign per frontage per
site.
      2.   Maximum Sign Area Per Sign:
         a.   D-PO, D-PS, D-GC, CMX, and CN districts: thirty-two (32) square
feet.
         b.   CG, CR, and Employment districts: sixty (60) square feet
         c.   PS, REC and PK districts: thirty-two (32) square feet.
      3.   Height. A maximum of seven (7) feet.
      4.   Landscaping. All monument signs shall require automatic irrigated
landscaping at the base equivalent to the area of the sign copy.
      5.   Setbacks. A minimum of five (5) feet from all property lines.
FIGURE 305.10F: MONUMENT SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3769.png]
   G.   Freestanding Signs. Freestanding signs are allowed subject to the
following standards:
      1.   Maximum Number of Signs: One (1) freestanding sign per site.
      2.   Allowable Sign Area Per Sign. The area of any freestanding sign
shall be included in the maximum allowed sign area per
Table 305.09.
      3.   Architectural Treatment. Freestanding signs shall be architecturally
compatible in style, finish and color with the adjacent building or
development. Structural supports, poles, angle bars, iron pipes, I-beams or
similar structural members shall be architecturally encased with finished metal
cladding, stucco, or similar material at least one foot in diameter, subject to
approval by the Zoning Administrator as to proportion and architectural
compatibility.
      4.   Landscaping. Freestanding signs shall be placed within a landscaped
planter with at least twenty-four (24) square feet of planting area. As a
condition of any permit for a pole sign, additional landscaping of the property
may be required where needed to better integrate sign appearance with the site
through scale and softening effects.
      5.   Height:
         a.   A maximum of twenty (20) feet; thirty-five (35) feet within five
hundred (500) feet of a freeway right of way. Pole signs shall have a minimum
clearance of fourteen (14) feet over parking lots and driveways, and eight (8)
feet over interior pedestrian walkways.
         b.   A maximum of twelve (12) feet in the CMX, CN and PO zone
districts.
      6.   Projection. Freestanding signs shall not project beyond the property
line.
      7.   Setbacks. A minimum of five (5) feet from all property lines.
FIGURE 305.10G: FREESTANDING SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3771.png]
   H.   Other Sign Types
      1.   Commercial Center Identification Signs. One Commercial Center
Identification sign per Center may be erected in the Commercial and Employment
districts, subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Allowable Areas. The center shall consist of a commercial or
industrial development with an integrated site and design plan creating a
single unified development with four (4) or more uses.
         b.   Area Not Counted. The area of the sign shall not count towards
the sign area allowed for the individual tenant space or building on the lot.
         c.   Sign Area Allowed. The maximum sign area may be no more than one
(1) square foot for each linear foot of street frontage, but in no case shall
the total sign area exceed two hundred (200) square feet. If more than one (1)
entrance to the lot exists, the maximum sign area permitted will be divided
among the number of entryways and signs requested.
         d.   Sign Height. The maximum sign height shall not exceed twenty (20)
feet in the CMX, CN and PO zone districts; thirty-five (35) feet in all other
Commercial and Employment zone districts.
         e.   Sign Base. The sign base is to be located within a planter box or
planting area at least twenty-four (24) square feet in area and the design and
location is to be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   A-Frame/Sandwich Board Signs. Temporary, portable A-frame or
sandwich board signs may be erected in all nonresidential zone districts,
subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Area Not Counted. The area of the sign shall not count towards
the permissible sign area of the individual lot.
         b.   Maximum Number of Signs. One (1) A-frame/sandwich board sign per
tenant space.
         c.   Maximum Sign Area. The total sign area shall not exceed a maximum
of six (6) square feet per side.
         d.   Location. Such sign may encroach into the right of way up to two
(2) feet from the property line provided there remains a five (5) foot wide
walkable area when the sign is in place.
         e.   Removal. Such sign is to be removed during non-operational hours.
      3.   Mobile Signs. Signs pulled on a trailer or otherwise mounted to a
vehicle may be allowed subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Permit process. Only three such signs shall be permitted at a
given time. A party wishing to present signage in a mobile or semi-mobile
manner may apply for a conditional use permit. The conditional use permit will
be valid for a term of one year. The three terms will initiate on a rotational
basis, beginning in January, May, and September of each year. A lottery will be
held in December, April, and August of each year for the respective terms.
         b.   Materials. A mobile sign permitted per this section shall be
developed of materials as prescribed in Section
305.07, and shall include any additional design considerations to assure that
such signs are securely and safely affixed to the host vehicle in consideration
of its use on local streets and roadways.
         c.   Size. Signs may not exceed the height of the vehicle to which
they are affixed by more than eighteen inches, and may not extend beyond the
horizontal dimensions of the trailer on which they are mounted.
         d.   Exemptions. Decals, paint, stickers, and similar treatments
affixed directly to the exterior of the host vehicle, or to a trailer, are
exempted from this ordinance, provided that:
            (1)   Lighting, changeable copy, and digital signs are not
permissible exemptions.
            (2)   In order for signage on a trailer to be exempt, the trailer
shall meet the standard minimum dimensions established by the U.S. Department
of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, in the Federal Size
Regulations for Commercial Motor Vehicles.
         e.   Signs placed or displayed on vehicles parked in a conspicuous
location that do not otherwise suit the above noted exemptions shall be
considered mobile signage and are subject to this section. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-
2019; Ord. 1913, 8-5-2025)
305.11: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
The following types of temporary signs are permitted, provided that they
conform to the standards of this section:
   A.   Signs Associated with Non-Residential Uses: Banners, handheld signs,
portable signs and other similar temporary advertising devices shall be
prohibited, except for business openings, special events, promotional events
and new subdivisions being developed in the City and are subject to the
following:
      1.   A temporary sign permit shall be secured prior to the installation
or display of any such sign. Issuance of a temporary sign permit may be
contingent upon the overall permissible area available for temporary signs
within a geographic area as identified in subsection (a)(6) of this section. In
addition, the application would be reviewed in light of other temporary sign
permit applications submitted for the same area, which may put such signs in
conflict with subsection (a)(6) of this section.
      2.   A temporary sign permit shall be granted for any one business or
building for a period of three (3) calendar months. A temporary sign permit
shall authorize the business to display a banner, handheld sign, portable sign
or inflatable sign for the duration of the sign permit. A maximum of two (2)
such signs may be permitted with a single application.
      3.   No more than one temporary sign permit shall be in effect
simultaneously for any business.
      4.   Each business shall be limited to a maximum of four (4) temporary
sign permits in any calendar year. A temporary sign is not intended to be in
lieu of a permanent sign. A temporary sign permit shall not be permitted longer
than one (1) year before a permanent sign is installed.
      5.   Each business shall be limited to a maximum of one temporary sign
permit during a “going out of business sale,” or the equivalent in any calendar
year.
      6.   Unless otherwise authorized by a master sign program, freestanding
temporary signs for multiple tenants of any one building, shopping center,
office complex, or unified development shall be separated by a minimum of one
hundred (100) feet.
      7.   All banners, regardless of their ratio allowance of signage to
linear building frontage, shall not exceed forty (40) square feet in size.
      8.   A-frame signs are not considered temporary and as such do not apply
to this section.
      9.   No temporary sign shall be mounted on or above roofs or mansards or
otherwise extend above a parapet wall or ridge line of a structure.
      10.   During the period of time beginning sixty (60) days before a
general, special, primary, or runoff election, and ending fifteen (15) days
after such election, one additional temporary sign may be permitted without a
temporary use permit, subject to the following size limitations:
         a.   Size Limitations in a Residential Zone District. The following
size limitations apply:
            (1)   Four (4) square feet of cumulative signage when located on
private property with frontage on a local street as designated in the General
Plan.
            (2)   Eight (8) square feet of cumulative signage when located on
private property with frontage on an Arterial or Collector Street as designated
in the General Plan.
         b.   Size Limitations in a Non-Residential Zone District. The
following size limitations apply:
            (1)   Sixteen (16) square feet of cumulative signage when located
on private property.
            (2)   Four (4) square feet of cumulative signage when located
within the public right of way.
   B.   Signs Associated With Residential Uses. On residential uses, non-
illuminated temporary signs, with the size restrictions as specified below may
be displayed at any time. However, during the period of time beginning sixty
(60) days before a general, special, primary or runoff election, and ending
fifteen (15) days after such election, the amount of display area may be
doubled. Flags do not count toward the signage allowed under this provision.
      1.   Size Limitations in a Residential Zone District. The following size
limitations apply:
         a.   Four (4) square feet of cumulative signage when located on
private property with frontage on a local street as designated in the General
Plan.
         b.   Eight (8) square feet of cumulative signage when located on
private property with frontage on an Arterial or Collector Street as designated
in the General Plan.
      2.   Size Limitations in a Non-Residential Zone District. The following
size limitations apply:
         a.   Sixteen (16) square feet of cumulative signage when located on
private property.
         b.   Four (4) square feet of cumulative signage when located within
the public right of way.
      3.   Violations. Violation to any of the above regulatory conditions
shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be summarily abated as such, and each
day that such violation continues shall be regarded as a new and separate
offense.
   C.   Developers of a new subdivision being developed in the City may be
permitted signs subject to the following requirements:
      1.   One (1) sign per street frontage with a maximum of three (3)
temporary signs may be permitted on the subdivision site in accordance with the
following:
         a.   Maximum Sign Area. The maximum sign area may be no more than one
hundred (100) square feet (total of all signs).
         b.   Height. A maximum of ten (10) feet .
         c.   Duration. Signs shall be removed twelve (12) months from the date
the permit for same is issued, or within one year of the date that the most
recent building permit was issued for a new house within the subdivision.
         d.   Letter of Agreement. A Letter of Agreement from the property
owners giving the City right of entry to remove signs in the event the above
stipulations are not complied with shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator prior to the issuance of a sign permit. If at any time the
property on which the signs are located is sold, the signs shall be removed, or
a new Letter of Agreement shall be submitted from the buyer to permit the signs
to remain and granting the City right to enter the property and remove the
signs.
      2.   Up to four (4) off-site signs may be permitted in any zone, provided
that:
         a.   Maximum Sign Area. The maximum sign area per sign may be no more
than thirty-two (32) square feet.
         b.   Height. A maximum twelve (12) feet.
         c.   Duration. Said signs shall be removed twelve (12) months from the
date the permit for same is issued, or within one year of the date that the
most recent building permit was issued for a new house within the subdivision.
         d.   Consent of Landowner. A completed application form, including a
notarized affidavit signed by each property owner of each site is required
prior to issuance of a sign permit. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.12: PERMITS REQUIRED; REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Authority. Unless otherwise stated, the Zoning Administrator shall
review and approve all signs as specified in this chapter.
   B.   Applicability. Except for certain signs exempted in compliance with
Section
305.05, Exempt Signs, no sign shall be erected, re-erected, constructed or
altered (excluding change of copy on a can or cabinet sign) without Zoning
Administrator approval and a building permit is issued by the Building
Division.
   C.   Applications for Filing, Processing and Review
      1.   Applicant. Sign owners or their designees shall apply for Building
Permits for signs that require them.
      2.   Filing and Filing Fee. Application for such permits shall be made
upon forms furnished by the Zoning Administrator and accompanied by the
required fee and working drawings adequate to show the location, construction
and design, including colors, materials, lighting, electrical elements, and
advertising copy, of the sign in accordance with applicable sign design
guidelines and the linear footage of building frontage owned or leased by the
business
      3.   Compliance with Standards.
         a.   Upon acceptance of a sign application, the Zoning Administrator
shall review the request for compliance with the locational and operational
standards identified in this chapter, and with any standards established in a
Master Sign Program pursuant to Section
305.13, Master Sign Program.
         b.   The Zoning Administrator’s decision shall clearly state any
conditions of approval or reasons for disapproval and applicable appeal
provisions.
   D.   Appeals. Decisions by the Zoning Administrator may be appealed subject
to the provisions of Chapter 612, Appeals. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.13: MASTER SIGN PROGRAM:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of a Master Sign Program is to provide a method
for an applicant to integrate the design and placement of signs within a
project with the overall development design to achieve a more unified
appearance. It is not the intent of this section to be used solely to request
relief from the sign regulations in order to circumvent any requirements or
purpose of this chapter.
   B.   Applicability. A Master Sign Program may be processed for any
development. However, shown below are examples of when a Master Sign Program
may be most appropriate:
      1.   Nonresidential developments of three (3) or more separate tenants
that share either the same parcel or structure and use common access and
parking facilities (e.g., shopping centers, malls, office complexes and
industrial parks); or
      2.   Developments with multiple structures with limited frontage or no
frontage on a public street; or
      3.   Businesses conducted primarily outside of a building; or
      4.   New multi-family residential developments of one hundred (100) or
more units, or
      5.   Other developments where the strict application of the sign code
unduly restricts the allowable signage that can be located on the parcel.
   C.   Application. Master Sign Program applications shall contain all written
and graphic information needed to fully describe the proposed sign program,
including the proposed location and dimension of each sign, as well as proposed
color schemes, font types, materials, methods of attachment or support, and
methods of illumination. A Master Sign Program application shall also include
calculation of total allowed sign area, and total proposed sign area, for the
site.
   D.   Allowable Modifications. A Master Sign Program may provide for
additional sign area and other deviations from the standards of this chapter,
provided that the Master Sign Program is consistent with the sections on design
principles and general standards.
   E.   Review Authority. All Master Sign Programs are subject to review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator, unless the signs are associated with a
project that requires City Council review and approval; then the City Council
shall review and approve it as part of the overall project approval.
   F.   Required Findings. In order to approve a Master Sign Program, the
decision-making body shall find that all of the following are met, in addition
to other applicable regulations in this section:
      1.   The proposed signs are compatible in style and character with any
building to which the signs are to be attached, any surrounding structures and
any adjoining signage on the site;
      2.   Future tenants will be provided with adequate opportunities to
construct, erect or maintain a sign for identification;
      3.   Directional signage and building addressing is adequate for
pedestrian and vehicular circulation and emergency vehicle access; and
      4.   Use of the Master Sign Program provides a more desirable functional
and aesthetic appearance than would otherwise be provided by standard code
requirements.
   G.   Lessees to Be Informed of Master Sign Program. Lessees within
developments subject to the requirements of an approved Master Sign Program
shall be made aware of the Master Sign Program in their lease.
   H.   Revisions to Master Sign Programs. Revisions to an approved Master Sign
Program shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.14: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   All legal nonconforming signs are permitted to remain unless they are
subject to a permit condition or development agreement providing for their
removal after a fixed period of time.
   B.   Any changes to legal nonconforming signs or their structures in terms
of location, orientation, size, or height other than routine maintenance and
repair or change of sign copy shall require the signs to be brought into
conformance with this chapter.
   C.   A legal nonconforming sign loses its legal nonconforming status when
the activity, product, business, service, or other use which was being
advertised has ceased or vacated the premises for one hundred eighty (180)
days, at which time it shall be considered an abandoned sign, subject to the
requirements of Section
305.07(c), Abandoned Signs. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
305.15: ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL OF ILLEGAL SIGNS:
   A.   Authority to Abate. The City has the authority to abate illegal and
abandoned signs.
   B.   Illegal Signs in the Public Right-of-Way. Illegal signs posted in the
public right-of-way or upon public property may be removed by the Zoning
Administrator or officer without notice or hearing. Signs shall be retained by
the City for a period of not less than thirty (30) days if identifiable.
Thereafter, any unclaimed signs may be discarded.
   C.   Recovery of Costs. When the City is required to remove illegal or
abandoned signs in compliance with this chapter, the reasonable cost of the
removal may be assessed against the owner of the sign(s).
   D.   Sign Removal
      1.   Any sign, including its supporting structure, which no longer
identifies the current occupant or products currently sold, or which otherwise
fails to serve its original purpose, or is not maintained in a safe,
presentable, and good condition, including the replacement of defective parts,
painting, repainting, and cleaning, shall be removed by the owner of the
property within 30 calendar days after written notice to do so from the
Building Division.
      2.   Any sign which the Building Division establishes as unsafe or
unsecure shall be corrected or removed, together with all supporting
structures, by the owner of the property upon which the sign is located within
thirty (30) days after written notice by the Building Division.
      3.   Such notice shall state the location of the sign, the nature of the
violation, and/or the manner in which the sign constitutes a public nuisance.
The notice also shall require the removal or other abatement of the sign before
the date specified in the notice. Further, the notice shall state that failure
to comply may result in the removal of the sign by the City and that the cost
of such removal may be imposed on the owner of the property. The notice shall
also include instructions for the filing of an appeal of the determination of
the Zoning Administrator that the sign is in violation of this chapter or
constitutes a public nuisance. Such notice shall be served by posting on the
property on which the sign is located and by registered or certified mail
delivery, postage prepaid to the owner of the property, and, if known, the
owner of the sign.
      4.   After the periods specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) above, the
Building Division may cause such sign to be removed, and the cost of such
removal shall become a lien against the property.
      5.   If a hazardous condition exists, the condition shall be corrected
forthwith upon notice by the Building Division.
      If an appeal is received prior to the date specified in the notice,
abatement proceedings shall be suspended, and any deadlines shall be suspended,
pending the outcome of such appeal. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 306. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
306.01: Purpose
306.02: Applicability
306.03: General Standard
306.04: Location Of Measurement For Determining Compliance
306.05: Noise
306.06: Vibration
306.07: Lighting And Glare
306.08: Maintenance
306.09: Odors
306.10: Heat And Humidity
306.11: Air Contaminants
306.12: Liquid Or Solid Wastes
306.13: Fire And Explosive Hazards
306.14: Hazardous And Extremely Hazardous Materials
306.15: Electromagnetic Interference
306.16: Radioactivity
306.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of this chapter are to:
   A.   Establish permissible limits and permit objective measurement of
nuisances, hazards, and objectionable conditions;
   B.   Ensure that all uses will provide necessary control measures to protect
the community from nuisances, hazards, and objectionable conditions; and
   C.   Protect any industry from arbitrary exclusion. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.02: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements in this chapter apply to all land uses in all zoning
districts, unless otherwise specified. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.03: GENERAL STANDARD:
Land or buildings shall not be used or occupied in a manner creating dangerous,
injurious, or noxious fire, explosive or other hazard; noise, vibration, smoke,
dust, odor, or form of air pollution; heat, cold, dampness, electrical or other
disturbance; glare, refuse, or wastes; or other substances, conditions or
elements which would substantially affect the surrounding area in an adverse
manner. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.04: LOCATION OF MEASUREMENT FOR DETERMINING COMPLIANCE:
Measurements necessary for determining compliance with the standards of this
chapter shall be taken at the lot line of the establishment or use that is the
source of a potentially objectionable condition, hazard, or nuisance. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
306.05: NOISE:
   A.   General Requirements. No use may generate noise that is in violation of
the City’s Noise Standards contained in Chapter 18, Article IX, of the
Porterville Municipal Code or other standards as may be adopted by the City
Council.
   B.   Acoustic Study. An acoustic study shall be required for any proposed
project which could create or be subject to a noise exposure greater than that
deemed “normally acceptable” by the General Plan.
   C.   Noise Attenuation Measures. Noise attenuation measures necessary to
reduce noise impacts to acceptable levels to the extent feasible may be
required to be incorporated into a project in accordance with the following:
      1.   All new residential development shall achieve interior noise level
reductions through sound insulation and other measures to meet the General Plan
land use compatibility standards by acoustical design and construction of the
structure and building elements.
      2.   New dwelling units exposed to an exterior DNL above sixty-five (65)
dB shall incorporate the following noise reduction measures:
         a.   All facades shall be constructed with substantial weight and
insulation;
         b.   Sound-rated windows providing noise reduction performance similar
to that of the façade shall be included for all exterior entries;
         c.   Acoustic baffling of vents is required for chimneys, fans, and
gable ends; and
         d.   Installation of a mechanical ventilation system affording comfort
under closed window conditions.
      3.   Sound walls or other attenuation measures designed to reduce noise
by a minimum of ten (10) dB in residential areas adjacent to State highways
when additional lanes are added or when new residential development or
sensitive receptors would be exposed to noise above sixty-five (65) dB.
      4.   Other measures identified in an acoustic study conducted for the
proposed project as necessary to reduce noise levels to “normally acceptable”
levels. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.06: VIBRATION:
No vibration shall be produced that is discernible without the aid of
instruments by a reasonable person at the lot lines of the site. Vibrations
from temporary construction, demolition, and vehicles that enter and leave the
subject parcel (e.g. construction equipment, trains, trucks, etc.) are exempt
from this standard. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.07: LIGHTING AND GLARE:
Activities, processes, and uses shall be operated in compliance with the
following provisions:
   A.   Mechanical or Chemical Processes. Light or glare from mechanical or
chemical processes, high-temperature processes such as combustion or welding,
or from reflective materials on buildings or used or stored on a site, shall be
shielded or modified to prevent casting of adverse light or glare onto other
properties.
   B.   Lighting. Lights shall be placed to deflect light away from adjacent
properties and public streets, and to prevent adverse interference with the
normal operation or enjoyment of surrounding properties. Direct or sky-
reflected glare from floodlights shall not be directed into any other property
or street. Except for public street lights, no light or combination of lights,
or activity shall cast light on a public street exceeding one (1) foot-candle
as measured from the centerline of the street. No light, combination of lights,
or activity shall cast light onto a residentially zoned property, or any
property containing residential uses, exceeding one-half foot-candle. Refer to
Section
300.07 Lighting and Illumination and Section
304.10(g) Parking Lot Lighting for additional lighting standards required by
this code.
   C.   Glare. No use shall be operated such that significant, direct glare,
incidental to the operation of the use is visible beyond the boundaries of the
lot where the use is located. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.08: MAINTENANCE:
Sites and facilities shall be maintained free of refuse, debris, or other
accumulated matter and shall be kept in good repair at all times.
   A.   Walls. Walls shall be maintained in good repair, including painting, if
required, and shall be kept free of graffiti, litter, or advertising. Where
hedges are used as screening, trimming or pruning shall be employed as
necessary to maintain the maximum allowed height.
   B.   Signs. Every sign displayed within the city, including exempt signs,
shall be maintained in good physical condition. All defective or broken parts
shall be replaced. Exposed surfaces shall be kept clean, in good repair, free
from graffiti, and painted where paint is required. The Zoning Administrator
may order the repair or removal of any sign determined by the City to be
unsafe, defective, damaged, or substantially deteriorated.
   C.   Landscaping. All planting and other landscape elements shall be
permanently maintained in good growing condition. Such maintenance shall
include, where appropriate, pruning, mowing, weeding, cleaning, fertilizing,
and regular watering. Wherever necessary, plantings shall be replaced with
other plant materials to insure continued compliance with applicable
landscaping requirements.
   D.   Trees. Trees shall be maintained by property owners to be free from
physical damage or injury arising from lack of water, chemical damage,
accidents, vandalism, insects and disease. Any tree showing significant damage
shall be replaced with another tree.
   E.   Parking Lots. Parking lots, including landscaped areas, driveways, and
loading areas, shall be maintained free of refuse, debris, or other accumulated
matter and shall be kept in good repair at all times. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.09: ODORS:
No use, process, or activity shall produce objectionable odors that are
perceptible without instruments by a reasonable person at the lot lines of a
site. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.10: HEAT AND HUMIDITY:
Uses, activities, and processes shall not produce any emissions of heat or
humidity that cause distress, physical discomfort, or injury to a reasonable
person, or interfere with ability to perform work tasks or conduct other
customary activities. In no case shall heat emitted by a use cause a
temperature increase in excess of five (5) degrees Fahrenheit on another
property. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.11: AIR CONTAMINANTS:
Uses, activities, and processes shall not operate in a manner that emits
excessive dust, fumes, smoke, or particulate matter.
   A.   Compliance. Sources of air pollution shall comply with rules identified
by the Environmental Protection Agency (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40),
the California Air Resources Board, and the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution
Control District (SJVAPCD).
   B.   SJVAPCD Permit. Operators of activities, processes, or uses that
require “approval to operate” from the SJVAPCD, shall file a copy of the permit
with the Planning Division within thirty (30) days of permit approval. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
306.12: LIQUID OR SOLID WASTES:
   A.   Discharges to Water or Sewers. Liquids and solids of any kind shall not
be discharged, whether directly or indirectly, into a public or private body of
water, sewage system, watercourse, or into the ground, except in compliance
with applicable regulations of the California Regional Water Quality Control
Board (California Administrative Code, Title 23, Chapter 3 and California Water
Code, Division).
   B.   Solid Wastes. Solid wastes shall be handled and stored so as to prevent
nuisances, health, safety and fire hazards, and to facilitate recycling. There
shall be no accumulation outdoors of solid wastes conducive to the breeding of
rodents or insects, unless stored in closed containers. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.13: FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS:
All activities, processes and uses involving the use of, or storage of,
flammable and explosive materials shall be provided with adequate safety
devices against the hazard of fire and explosion. Firefighting and fire
suppression equipment and devices standard in industry shall be approved by the
Fire Department. All incineration is prohibited with the exception of those
substances such as, but not limited to, chemicals, insecticides, hospital
materials and waste products, required by law to be disposed of by burning, and
those instances wherein the Fire Department deems it a practical necessity.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.14: HAZARDOUS AND EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
The use, handling, storage and transportation of hazardous and extremely
hazardous materials shall comply with the provisions of the California
Hazardous Materials Regulations and the California Fire and Building Code, as
well as the laws and regulations of the California Department of Toxic
Substances Control and the County Environmental Health Agency. Activities,
processes, and uses shall not generate or emit any fissionable or radioactive
materials into the atmosphere, a sewage system or onto the ground. (Ord. 1866,
11-19-2019)
306.15: ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE:
No use, activity or process shall cause electromagnetic interference with
normal radio and television reception in any R district, or with the function
of other electronic equipment beyond the lot line of the site in which it is
situated. All uses, activities and processes shall comply with applicable
Federal Communications Commission regulations. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
306.16: RADIOACTIVITY:
No radiation of any kind shall be emitted that is dangerous to humans. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
ARTICLE 307. NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES, AND LOTS
SECTION:
307.01: Purpose
307.02: Applicability
307.03: Establishment Of Legal Nonconforming Uses And Structures
307.04: Continuation And Maintenance Of Nonconforming Structures
307.05: Alterations And Enlargements To Nonconforming Structures
307.06: Classification Of Nonconforming Uses
307.07: Changes And Substitutions Of Nonconforming Uses
307.08: Restoration Of Damaged Nonconforming Structures
307.09: Correction Of Nonconforming Site Features
307.10: Abandonment Of Nonconforming Uses
307.01: PURPOSE:
The specific purpose of this chapter is to permit continuation of uses and
continued occupancy and maintenance of structures that were legally established
but do not comply with all of the standards and requirements of this Ordinance
in a manner that does not impair public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
307.02: APPLICABILITY:
These provisions apply to structures, land and uses that have become
nonconforming by operation of this Ordinance and that remain in a nonconforming
status by application of this chapter, as well as structures, land, and uses
that hereafter become nonconforming due to annexation to the City or amendments
to the zoning map or development Ordinance text. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
307.03: ESTABLISHMENT OF LEGAL NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Nonconformity. A non-conformity may result from any inconsistency with
the requirements of this Ordinance, including but not limited to location,
density, height, yard, usable open space, buffering, or performance standards
or the lack of a Conditional Use Permit, variance, or other required
authorization. A use or structure shall not be deemed nonconforming solely
because it does not conform with the parking dimension standards, loading,
planting area, or screening regulations of the district in which it is located
or does not conform to the standards for the following building features:
garage door location; garage door width; chimney height; cornices, eaves, and
other ornamental features that exceed maximum projections into required yards;
or bay windows and balconies above the first floor that exceed maximum
projections into required yards.
   B.   Nonconforming Uses and Structures-Right to Continue. Any use or
structure that was legally established prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance or of any subsequent rezoning or amendment shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this Ordinance and may be continued and maintained indefinitely
if it has remained in continuous existence. The right to continue a
nonconforming use or structure shall run with the land. However, no
substitution, expansion, or other change in use and no alteration or other
change in structures is permitted, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
307.04: CONTINUATION AND MAINTENANCE OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Legal nonconforming structures may be continued and maintained in compliance
with the requirements of this chapter unless deemed to be a public nuisance
because of health or safety conditions.
   A.   Maintenance and Nonstructural Repairs. Maintenance, non-structural
repairs and non-structural interior alterations are permitted to a
nonconforming structure or to a structure occupied by a nonconforming use, so
long as the changes and improvements do not enlarge or extend the structure.
   B.   Structural Repairs. Structural repairs that do not enlarge or extend
the structure, including modification or repair of bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders, may be undertaken only when the Building Official determines
that such modification or repair is immediately necessary to protect public
health and safety, occupants of the nonconforming structure, or occupants of
adjacent property and when the cost of such work does not exceed fifty (50)
percent of the higher of the assessed value of the nonconforming structure as
determined by the Tulare County Assessor or an appraisal performed by a
certified appraiser for the applicant. If an applicant chooses not to submit an
appraisal, the Tulare County Assessor’s determination shall be used. (Ord.
1866, 11-19-2019)
307.05: ALTERATIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS TO NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Nonconforming structures may be enlarged, extended, structurally altered or
repaired as long as the use of the property is conforming, and subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   Nonconforming Single-Family Dwellings. A Single-Family Dwelling that is
nonconforming with respect to one (1) or more required setbacks may be enlarged
or altered, subject to the following standards:
      1.   Interior Side and Rear Setbacks. Additions or enlargements that
maintain a nonconforming interior side or rear yard setback are permitted as
long as the addition does not:
         a.   Further reduce any nonconforming side or rear setback;
         b.   Create any new encroachment into any other required setback;
         c.   Increase the existing height of the portion of the structure that
is within the required setback;
         d.   Result in a violation of applicable standards for building
coverage, parking, or useable open space; or
         e.   Result in a violation of any standard of the Building Code.
      2.   Front Setbacks. Additions or enlargements that vertically or
horizontally extend a nonconforming front yard setback may be approved based on
a finding that the proposed addition will maintain the average setback of
development on the same block front within two hundred (200) feet of the lot.
      3.   Height. Additions or enlargements that horizontally extend a
nonconforming side or rear setback of any portion of a structure that is
nonconforming with respect to height may be approved based on findings that the
proposed alteration will not:
         a.   Substantially interfere with solar access available to
surrounding properties;
         b.   Reduce the privacy of surrounding properties; or
         c.   Create a structure that is incompatible with the character of
surrounding development due to its bulk or form.
   B.   Nonconforming Parking:
      1.   Nonresidential Structures. A nonresidential structure that is
nonconforming because it does not satisfy the parking requirements of this
Ordinance may not be expanded unless the parking spaces that are required for
the expansion are provided in accordance with applicable provisions of Chapter
304, On-Site Parking and Loading.
      2.   Residential Structures. A residential structure that is
nonconforming because two (2) spaces have not been previously required by this
Ordinance may be altered or expanded with only one (1) covered space, provided
that such alterations or expansions of habitable space in an individual
dwelling shall not cumulatively exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the
habitable floor area at the time of the first expansion or alteration.
      3.   Exception. No residence may be constructed or expanded by more than
one thousand (1,000) square feet of additional habitable area without providing
parking in accordance with the applicable provisions of Chapter 304, On-Site
Parking and Loading.
   C.   Nonconforming Lot Coverage. A structure that is nonconforming because
it exceeds the maximum allowable lot coverage may be expanded in floor area
only if the expansion does not increase the lot coverage. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-
2019)
307.06: CLASSIFICATION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
The City Council may classify legally established nonconforming uses for the
purpose of determining whether to permit substitution or expansion subject to
the requirements of the following section. The classification of any use or
structure shall be optional and shall be based on written application by the
property owner or his/her designee, including such information as may be deemed
necessary to determine that the use was legally established and to make any
other findings that may be required.
   A.   Class I. Class I nonconforming uses are designated by the City Council
following a public hearing and based on findings that:
      1.   The existing nonconforming use was legally established;
      2.   The proposed expansion or substitution of the nonconforming use
would not be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare;
      3.   The proposed expansion or substitution would not be inconsistent
with the General Plan and would not preclude or interfere with implementation
of any applicable adopted City plan;
      4.   The proposed use will not depress the value of nearby properties;
and
      5.   No useful purpose would be served by strict application of the
provisions or requirements of this Ordinance with which the use or structure
does not conform.
   B.   Class II. Class II nonconforming uses include any legally established
non-residential use that involves the following:
      1.   Storage, use, or generation of hazardous materials, processes,
products, or wastes;
      2.   Activity that may be detrimental to public health and safety because
of the potential to create dust, glare, heat, noise, noxious gases, odor,
smoke, vibration;
      3.   Conditions that would be incompatible with surrounding uses; or
      4.   Any nonconforming Sexually Oriented Business. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-
2019)
307.07: CHANGES AND SUBSTITUTIONS OF NONCONFORMING USES:
No legal nonconforming use shall be substantially expanded or changed in
operation without the approval of a Conditional Use Permit as provided for in
this chapter. This requirement shall not apply to a change of ownership,
tenancy, or management where the new use is in the same classification as the
previous use, as defined in Chapter 701: Use Classifications, and the use is
not expanded.
   A.   Change from Nonconforming to Permitted Use. Any nonconforming use may
be changed to a use that is allowed by right in the zoning district in which it
is located and complies with all applicable standards for such use.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit to Legalize Use. Any use that is nonconforming
solely by reason of the absence of a Conditional Use Permit may be changed to a
conforming use by obtaining the required permit.
   C.   Change from Nonconforming Use to Other Nonconforming Use. The City
Council may allow the expansion of a Class I use, substitution of a Class II
nonconforming use with a Class I nonconforming use, or substitution of a Class
I nonconforming use with another Class I nonconforming use, subject to approval
of a Conditional Use Permit and the requirements of this chapter.
      1.   Within a Structure That Conforms to the Development Ordinance. A
Class I nonconforming use in a structure that conforms to this Ordinance and to
the requirements of the Building Code may expand the floor area that it
occupies, subject to Conditional Use Permit approval provided that no
structural alteration is proposed or made for the purpose of the expansion.
         a.   A nonconforming use may not be expanded to occupy all or a part
of another structure or another lot that it did not occupy on the effective
date of this Ordinance.
         b.   The expansion of the nonconforming use shall not exceed fifty
(50) percent of the area that the nonconforming use legally occupies at the
time of application.
      2.   Within a Structure That Does Not Conform to the Development
Ordinance. A Class I nonconforming use in a structure that does not conform to
the requirements of this Ordinance may expand its occupancy and building floor
area subject to the requirements of paragraph one (1) above.
      3.   Within a Structure That Does Not Conform to the Building Code. Any
nonconforming use in a structure that does not conform to the Building Code may
not expand the area it occupies. A Class I nonconforming use may expand the
area it occupies subject to Conditional Use Permit approval after the structure
is brought into conformance with all applicable Building Code requirements.
      4.   City Council Review. The City Council shall hold a public hearing,
pursuant to the procedures established in Chapter 601, Common Procedures, on
each application for a change or substitution of use. In addition to any other
findings that may be required, the City Council shall find that:
         a.   The proposed new use will be more compatible with the purposes of
the district and surrounding uses than the nonconforming use it replaces;
         b.   The proposed new use will not be detrimental to the health,
safety, peace, comfort or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
surrounding area or be detrimental or injurious to property and improvements of
adjacent properties, the surrounding area, or the neighborhood because of
noise, traffic generation, odors, dust, glare, vibrations, or other effects;
and
         c.   The proposed new use will comply with all applicable standards or
there are special circumstances peculiar to the property and its relation to
surrounding uses or to the district itself that would justify modification to
applicable standards.
      5.   Standards for Council Determination. In making its findings and
conclusions pursuant to paragraph four (4) above, the City Council shall
consider the following factors:
         a.   Noise;
         b.   Traffic generation;
         c.   Hours of operation;
         d.   Noxious or annoying emissions of odor, smoke, waste water or
other matters;
         e.   Proximity of the use to conforming uses;
         f.   Extent and severity of nonconformity;
         g.   Effect of the nonconforming use on surrounding conforming uses;
         h.   Character of the surrounding neighborhood, including the number
and proportion of nonconforming uses;
         i.   Access to the nonconforming use;
         j.   Maintenance of the nonconforming use; and
         k.   Any other factors the City Council deems relevant given the
purposes of this chapter.
      6.   Conditions. When making its decision on an application for a change
or substitution of use, the Council may establish conditions that are necessary
to accomplish the purposes of this chapter, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Required improvement of, or modifications to existing
improvements on, the property;
         b.   Limitations on hours of operations;
         c.   Limitations on the nature of operations; and
         d.   A specified term of years for which the continued nonconforming
use shall be allowed.
      7.   Revocation of Approved Changes of Nonconforming Use. The City
Council may initiate a review of a changed or substituted nonconforming uses
upon its own motion, or following a recommendation from the Zoning
Administrator, in accordance with Section
601.10, Revocation of Approvals, and the following standards and procedures.
         a.   Initiation of Revocation Procedure. Initiation of City Council
review of a nonconforming use approved pursuant to this section shall first
require a report from the Zoning Administrator based upon the Zoning
Administrator’s independent investigation and determination, recommending
action by the Council.
         b.   City Council Review and Decision. The City Council shall hold a
public hearing, pursuant to the procedures established in Chapter 601, Common
Procedures. Upon the conclusion of the public hearing, the Council shall
determine whether the nonconforming status shall be revoked and the use
discontinued or allowed to continue subject to conditions. In making its
determination the Council shall base its decision on the same considerations it
used when approving the Conditional Use Permit to allow a change or
substitution of a nonconforming use and the standards in paragraph five (5)
above. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
307.08: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Restoration When Damage is Less than Seventy-Five (75) Percent of
Value. If a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a nonconforming
use is destroyed by fire or other calamity, to the extent of seventy-five (75)
percent or less of the replacement cost, as determined by the Building
Official, the structure may be restored and the nonconforming use may be
resumed, provided that a building permit for restoration is issued within six
(6) months and restoration work is diligently pursued to completion.
   B.   Restoration When Damage Exceeds Seventy-Five (75) Percent of Value. If
any nonconforming structure or a structure containing a nonconforming use is
destroyed by fire, explosion or other casualty or act of God to an extent of
seventy-five (75) percent or greater of the replacement cost, as determined by
the Building Official, then the structure may be restored and used only in
compliance with the applicable regulations for the district where it is
located, except as provided below.
      1.   Exceptions for Residential Structures.
         a.   Any nonconforming residential use may be reconstructed, restored,
or rebuilt up to the size and number of dwelling units prior to the damage and
the nonconforming use, if any, may be resumed unless the City finds that:
         (1)   The reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding will be
detrimental or injurious to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the neighborhood, or will be detrimental or injurious to
property and improvements in the neighborhood.
         (2)   The existing nonconforming use of the building or structure can
be more appropriately moved to a zoning district in which the use is permitted,
or that there no longer exists a district in which the existing nonconforming
use is permitted.
      2.   Any reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding undertaken pursuant
to this section shall conform to all applicable Building Code requirements.
      3.   A building permit shall be obtained within two (2) years after the
date of the damage or destruction. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
307.09: CORRECTION OF NONCONFORMING SITE FEATURES:
Prior to occupancy of a site or structure that is nonconforming due to lack of
one (1) of the following: screening of mechanical equipment; required walls or
fences to screen parking; required paving for driveways; or required
landscaping; a schedule for elimination or substantial reduction of these
nonconformities over a period not exceeding five (5) years shall be submitted.
Priority may be given to elimination of nonconformities that have a significant
adverse impact on surrounding properties, and shall not require a commitment to
remove nonconformities that have a minor impact and would be costly to
eliminate due to the configuration of the site and the location of existing
structures. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
307.10: ABANDONMENT OF NONCONFORMING USES:
No nonconforming use may be resumed, reestablished, reopened or replaced by any
other nonconforming use after it has been abandoned or vacated for a period of
six (6) months, except as provided for in this section. The nonconforming use
of a legally established structure may be reestablished if the City Council
approves a Conditional Use Permit after making all the following findings in
addition to any other required findings. As a condition of approving the
resumption of such nonconforming use, the Council may impose a time limit on
its duration if necessary in order to make the required findings.
   A.   The structure cannot be used for any conforming use because of its
original design or because of legal structural changes made for a previous
nonconforming use;
   B.   The structure can be reasonably expected to remain in active use for a
period of twenty (20) years without requiring repairs or maintenance in excess
of fifty (50) percent of the replacement cost of the structure, as defined in
this chapter, within any five (5) year period; and
   C.   The continuation of the use or structure will not be incompatible with
or detrimental to surrounding conforming uses. (Ord. 1866, 11-19-2019)
SERIES 400. LAND DIVISIONS
ARTICLE 400. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
400.01: Introductory Provisions
400.02: General Responsibilities
400.03: Appeals
400.04: Grounds For Denial
400.05: Authority To Vary Regulations
400.06: Maps Required
400.01: INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Citation and Authority. This Series is enacted pursuant to the
provisions of Division 2 of Title 7 of the Government Code of the State of
California, referred to herein as the “Subdivision Map Act.”
   B.   Purpose. Series 400, Land Divisions, is adopted to preserve, protect
and promote the public health, safety, convenience, prosperity and general
welfare. More specifically, this Series is adopted in order to achieve the
following objectives:
      1.   To aid in the implementation of the General Plan, and elements
thereof, as adopted by the City Council.
      2.   To provide lots of sufficient size and appropriate design for the
purposes for which they are to be used.
      3.   To provide streets of adequate capacity for the anticipated traffic
which would utilize them, and to ensure that they are designed to promote a
safe vehicular and pedestrian traffic circulation system.
      4.   To accommodate new development in a manner which will preserve and
enhance the city’s living environment.
      5.   To provide for water supply, sewage disposal, storm drainage, and
other utilities and facilities which are required by conditions of an urban
environment.
      6.   To ensure that the costs of providing rights-of-way, street
improvements, utilities and public areas and facilities needed to service new
developments are borne fairly and equitably by the subdivider, rather than by
property owners of the city at large.
   C.   Scope. Series 400, Land Divisions, is enacted for the purpose of
regulating subdivision of land in accordance with the Subdivision Map Act of
the State of California, and any future amendments thereto, and repeals all
other regulations of the City of Porterville in conflict with this Series;
provided, however, that such repeal shall not affect any agreement, contract,
or bond executed pursuant to such regulations or any rights of action accruing
thereunder. The regulations contained in this Series shall apply to all
subdivisions and parcel maps or parts of subdivisions and parcel maps hereafter
made entirely or partially within the City of Porterville. The provisions of
this Series shall be in addition to and shall be considered as supplemental to
the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act of the State of California, as now in
effect or hereinafter amended.
   D.   Exclusions. These standards shall not apply to those divisions of land
excluded by Section 66412 of the Subdivision Map Act. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
400.02: GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   City Attorney. The City Attorney shall be responsible for approving as
to form all subdivision improvement agreements and improvement securities.
   B.   City Council. The City Council shall review and approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove tentative and final subdivision maps and parcel maps when
the parcel map is in coordination with a discretionary permit and/or multi-
application projects. The City Council shall have final jurisdiction in the
approval of reversions to acreage, final maps, improvement agreements, and the
acceptance by the city of lands and/or improvements as may be proposed for
dedication to the city for final maps. The City Council shall act as the final
appeal board for hearing appeals of the approval, conditional approval or
disapproval for parcel maps.
   C.   Engineering and Project Management Director or City Engineer. The
Engineering and Project Management Director, City Engineer or their designee
shall be responsible for:
      1.   Establishing design and construction details, standards and
specifications;
      2.   Determining if proposed subdivision improvements comply with the
provisions of this Series and the Subdivision Map Act and for reporting the
findings together with any recommendations for approval, or conditional
approval, of the tentative map to the Zoning Administrator for tentative
subdivision maps and parcel maps.
      3.   The processing of final maps, reversion to acreage maps and amended
maps; the processing and approval of subdivision improvement plans, lot line
adjustments, mergers, and certificates of compliance. In the case where
signatures are required, it shall be provided by the appropriately authorized
individual.
      4.   Examining and stating that final maps are in substantial conformance
with the approved tentative map.
      5.   The inspection and approval of subdivision improvements.
      6.   As authorized by the City Council, accept the dedication of streets,
alleys, including access rights and abutter’s rights, drainage easements,
parks, and other easements and parcels of land intended for public use.
      7.   The collection of all required deposits and fees.
      8.   The Engineering and Project Management Director or designee(s)
authorized to sign on behalf of the City as the City Engineer or City Surveyor,
pursuant to the Professional Engineer’s Act (Chapter 7 [commencing with Section
6700] of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code).
   D.   Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, or designee, shall be
responsible for design analysis for conformity with the General Plan and this
Ordinance; for the environmental impact of the subdivision design; and for the
expedient processing of subdivision maps, parcel maps, and reports, as provided
herein.
   E.   Project Review Committee. The Project Review Committee shall be
responsible for reviewing and commenting on preliminary maps that show the
general characteristics of the proposed subdivision.
   F.   Parcel Map Committee. The Parcel Map Committee shall have the authority
to approve, conditionally approve, or deny tentative parcel maps. The Parcel
Map Committee may impose conditions upon a tentative map, as appropriate, to
determine compliance with general engineering or surveying practices in
compliance with adopted policies and ordinances. The Parcel Map Committee shall
be the advisory committee to the City Council for tentative parcel maps
requiring concurrent processing consistent with Section
601.04(c).
   G.   Subdivider. The subdivider shall prepare maps consistent with the
standards contained herein, and design public improvements consistent with the
public improvement standards of the City of Porterville. The subdivider shall
process said maps in accordance with the regulations set forth herein. (Ord.
1870, 6-2-2020)
400.03: APPEALS:
   A.   The subdivider or any interested person adversely affected may appeal
any decision, determination or requirement of the Engineering and Project
Management Director, Zoning Administrator, or Parcel Map Committee consistent
with the provisions of Chapter 612, Appeals.
   B.   When the Parcel Map Committee has acted on an application for an
exception, in accordance with the provisions of this Series, any interested
person may file an appeal to the City Clerk pursuant to the procedures and
within the time limits set forth in Chapter 612, Appeals. City Council
decisions are final upon adoption of the resolution. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
400.04: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL:
   A.   A tentative map or parcel map shall be denied approval or conditional
approval in the event any one (1) of the following findings is found to prevail
by the approving body:
      1.   That the proposed map is not consistent with applicable general and
specific plans.
      2.   That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with applicable general and specific plans.
      3.   That the site is not physically suitable for the type of
development.
      4.   That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development.
      5.   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements is
likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably
injure fish or wildlife or their habitat.
      6.   That the design of the subdivision or type of improvements is likely
to cause serious public health problems.
      7.   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements, acquired by the public at large, for access through or
use of, property within the proposed subdivision. In this connection, the
governing body may approve a map if it finds that alternate easements, for
access or for use, will be provided, and that these will be substantially
equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public. This subsection shall
apply only to easements of record or to easements established by judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction, and no authority is hereby granted to a
legislative body to determine that the public at large has acquired easements
for access through or use of property within the proposed subdivision. (Ord.
1870, 6-2-2020)
400.05: AUTHORITY TO VARY REGULATIONS:
   A.   The Parcel Map Committee/City Council, with respect to tentative parcel
maps and tentative subdivision maps, respectively, can modify any of the
requirements and regulations set forth in this Series as it pertains to lot
design, subject to the approval of a conditional use permit. Variation of
regulations is applicable when there are natural features such as topographic
constraints and soils conditions that may warrant modified standards.
Application for any such modification shall be made in writing by the
subdivider in the form of a conditional use permit application, stating fully
the grounds of the application and the facts relied upon by the subdivider.
Such application shall be filed with the tentative map of the proposed land
division. If in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator and Engineering and
Project Management Director/City Engineer the on- and/or off-site improvements,
phasing and/or type of improvements necessitate it, a development agreement may
be required between the City and the subdivider. In order for the property
referred to in the application to come within the provisions of this section,
it shall be necessary that the City Council or Parcel Map Committee find the
following facts with respect thereto:
      1.   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the property
that make it impractical to conform to all of the provisions prescribed by this
Series provided, however, that no exceptions may be granted to any requirements
imposed by the Subdivision Map Act or any other applicable provision of State
law;
      2.   That the modification is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the petitioner;
      3.   That the granting of the modification will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which such
property is situated;
      4.   That the exception is appropriate for the proper design and/or
function of the subdivision; and
      5.   That the granting of the exception is consistent with the General
Plan.
   B.   Exception to Conditional Use Permit Requirement. As it pertains to
tentative parcel maps and tentative subdivision maps, exceptions to regulations
pertaining to lot depth, reverse corner lots, street length and width, and
double frontage lots or for minor exceptions as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, shall be processed with the tentative map and shall not be
subject to a conditional use permit per the above section (a). Exceptions from
additional subdivision design standards and/or standards pertaining to the lot
design within particular zones shall be subject to the approval of a
conditional use permit.
      1.   Action on Exceptions. In the event that the proposed exceptions
represent more than exceptions from lot depth, reverse corner lots, street
length, and double frontage lots, the City Council shall approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the application for a conditional use permit pertaining
to a tentative map in a public hearing held concurrently with the proposed
tentative map. The Parcel Map Committee shall consider the exceptions not
subject to a conditional use permit during the public hearing at which it
considers the tentative parcel map.
      2.   Appeals. When the Parcel Map Committee has acted on an application
for an exception, in accordance with the provisions of this article, any
interested person may appeal to the City Clerk pursuant to the procedures and
within the time limits set forth in Chapter 612. City Council decisions are
final upon adoption of the resolution. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
400.06: MAPS REQUIRED:
   A.   General. The necessity for tentative maps (Chapter 402), or vesting
tentative maps (Chapter 403), final maps (Chapter 404), and parcel maps
(Chapter 405) shall be governed by the provisions of this Series. A designated
remainder lot shall not be counted as a parcel for the purpose of determining
whether a parcel or final map is required.
   B.   Final Map. A tentative or vesting tentative and final map shall be
required for all divisions of land creating five (5) or more parcels, five (5)
or more condominiums as defined in Section 783 of the State Civil Code, a
community apartment project containing five (5) or more parcels, or for the
conversion of a dwelling to a stock cooperative containing five (5) or more
dwelling units, except where:
      1.   The land before division contains less than five (5) acres, each
parcel created by the division abuts upon a maintained public street or highway
and no dedications or improvements are required by the legislative body; or
      2.   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of twenty (20)
acres or more and has an approved access to a maintained public street or
highway; or
      3.   The land consists of a parcel or parcels of land having approved
access to a public street or highway which comprises part of a tract of land
zoned for industrial or commercial development, and which has the approval of
the governing body as to street alignments and widths; or
      4.   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of not less
than 40 acres or is not less than one quarter of a quarter section.
      5.   The land being subdivided is solely for the creation of an
environmental subdivision pursuant to Section 66418.2 of the Subdivision Map
Act.
      6.   The subdivisions described in paragraphs B1, B2, B3, B4 or B5 shall
require a parcel map.
   C.   Parcel Map. A tentative map, vesting tentative map, and parcel map
shall be required for all divisions of land into four (4) or fewer parcels, and
for divisions of land into five (5) or more parcels that are classified as a
parcel map in subsection (b) above, except that a tentative map and parcel map
shall not be required for:
      1.   Right-of-Way Subdivisions. Subdivisions of a portion of the
operating right-of- way of a railroad corporation, defined by Section 230 of
the Public Utilities Code that are created by short-term leases terminable by
either party on not more than 30 days’ notice in writing.
      3.   Conveyances. Land conveyed to or from a governmental agency, public
entity or public utility, or for land conveyed to a subsidiary of a public
utility for conveyance to the public utility for rights-of-way, unless a
showing is made in individual cases, upon substantial evidence, that public
policy necessitates a parcel map.
      4.   Lot Line Adjustments. Lot line adjustments that meet the
requirements of Section 406.03, Lot Line Adjustments. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 401. PRELIMINARY MAP
SECTION:
401.01: Form Of Preliminary Map
401.02: Project Review Committee
401.01: FORM OF PRELIMINARY MAP:
   A.   Prior to the filing of a map, the subdivider may submit to the Zoning
Administrator an application for Project Review Committee and nine (9) copies
of a preliminary map to indicate the essential characteristics of the
subdivision. The preliminary map shall be of the same size and scale as that
required by this Series for tentative maps, and shall contain the following
minimum information:
      1.   Key map showing adjacent property, subdivisions and roads or
streets, proposed street in the subdivision, and other development that would
affect the subdivision.
      2.   Name and address of the owner of record, subdivider and engineer or
surveyor.
      3.   Date, north point and scale showing the general topography contours
and features.
      4.   Approximate location and widths of proposed and existing street
rights-of-way.
      5.   Approximate location, average size, and number of lots.
      6.   Approximate acreage of proposed tract.
      7.   The intended land use and information on utilities, sanitary sewers,
drainage, water and other improvements. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
401.02: PROJECT REVIEW COMMITTEE:
   A.   The Zoning Administrator will schedule a meeting of the Project Review
Committee, in compliance with Chapter
601.03, with the subdivider on the preliminary map. The Project Review
Committee will make such general recommendations to the subdivider as shall
seem proper regarding such preliminary map and shall recommend consultations by
the subdivider with such other public or private agencies as it shall
designate. The Project Review Committee shall furnish written copies of its
recommendations to the subdivider and to all other public or private agencies
which may be interested. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 402. TENTATIVE MAPS
SECTION:
402.01: Map Filing Procedure And Requirements
402.02: Form Of Map And Content
402.03: Expiration Of Maps And Extensions Of Time
402.01: MAP FILING PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The subdivider shall file with the Zoning Administrator nine (9)
copies, one (1) photo- ready master (11" X 17" maximum) and one (1) copy of the
owner’s statement (if not included on the tentative map), all in accordance
with the requirement of this Series, of each proposed subdivision. Said
tentative map shall be accompanied with filing fees per resolution adopted by
the City Council. The Zoning Administrator shall indicate upon all copies of
the tentative map and accompanying data the date of filing, which shall be the
date on which all required maps, masters, and accompanying data are deposited
in the office of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may refuse
to accept a tentative map submittal which fails to comply with the requirements
of this Series.
   B.   Department Review and Referral:
      1.   Determination of Complete Application. Not later than thirty (30)
days after receipt of an application for a tentative map approval, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine in writing whether such application is complete,
and shall immediately transmit such determination to the applicant for the
tentative map. In the event that the application is determined not to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator’s determination shall identify those parts
of the application which are complete, and shall specify those parts of the
application which are incomplete, and shall indicate the manner in which they
can be made complete. Zoning Administrator may, in the course of processing the
application, request the applicant to clarify, amplify, correct, or otherwise
supplement the information required for the application.
      2.   Referral. Within ten (10) days of acceptance of a tentative map of a
subdivision, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit the requested number of
copies of such map, together with accompanying data, to such public agencies
and utilities as may be concerned. Each of the public agencies and utilities
may, within fifteen (15) days after distribution of the tentative map, forward
to the Zoning Administrator a written report of their findings and
recommendations thereon. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a written
report on the conformity of the tentative map to the provisions of the General
Plan, the Development Ordinance, and all other applicable requirements of this
and other ordinances and regulations of the City of Porterville. Such public
agencies and utilities include, but are not limited to:
         a.   City Engineer or the Engineering and Project Management Director;
         b.   Chief Building Official;
         c.   Police Department;
         d.   Fire Department;
         e.   Field Services Director;
         f.   Office of Intergovernmental Management as required by the
Government Code;
         g.   Southern California Edison or other affected electric company;
         h.   The Gas Company or other affected gas company;
         i.   Telephone company or other affected phone company;
         j.   Cable TV companies affected;
         k.   School Districts as required by Section 66455.7 of the Map Act;
         l.   Water supplier that is or may become a public water system as
required by Section 66455.3 of the Map Act; and
         m.   Affected owner of irrigation ditches or canals, and any other
public agency or public utility affect by the subdivision.
   C.   Consideration of Tentative Maps. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare
a written report on the conformity of the tentative map to the provisions of
the General Plan and all other applicable requirements of this and other
ordinances and regulations of the City of Porterville. The report shall include
a recommendation for action, including any requirements or conditions deemed
necessary to ensure that the map will comply with the General Plan and any
applicable city regulations. The Engineering and Project Management Director/
City Engineer shall prepare a written report of recommendations on the
tentative map in relation to the public improvement requirements of this
chapter and the provisions of the Map Act.
   D.   Notification Procedures for Public Hearings. Notice of the time and
place of any public hearing shall be given in conformance with the provisions
of Section
601.05, Public Notification.
   E.   Action. Within the timeframes established in the Permit Streamlining
Act, the City Council shall act on the tentative map for subdivisions and the
Parcel Map Committee shall act on tentative parcel maps, unless an extension is
agreed upon by the subdivider as provided for in the Permit Streamlining Act.
If the City Council/Parcel Map Committee find that the proposed map complies
with the requirements of this chapter and the Map Act, it shall approve the
map. If the City Council/Parcel Map Committee finds that the proposed map does
not meet the requirements of this chapter and the Map Act, it shall
conditionally approve or disapprove such map.
   F.   Notice of Action. Within ten (10) days following the action by the City
Council or Parcel Map Committee, as appropriate, the Zoning Administrator shall
transmit a letter containing the record pertaining to such action to the party
submitting the tentative map. Upon approval, the tentative shall be so marked
and all conditions of approval and required dedications and improvements
clearly specified on or with the map. Copies of the approved tentative map
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and the City Engineer. (Ord. 1870,
6-2-2020)
402.02: FORM OF MAP AND CONTENT:
   A.   The subdivider shall cause the tentative map of the land proposed to be
subdivided to be prepared by a registered civil engineer or a licensed land
surveyor. The size of each sheet shall be eighteen by twenty-six inches (18" X
26"). The tentative map shall be legibly drawn, in pencil or ink, and shall use
a decimal or an engineer’s scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100'), or as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   The tentative map shall clearly show the following information:
      1.   The tract name or number, date, north point, scale and sufficient
description to define the location and boundaries of the proposed tract.
      2.   Names, addresses, and phone numbers of record owner(s), subdivider,
and engineer or surveyor.
      3.   Partial legal description (1/4 section, township/range).
      4.   The tentative map shall include enough sheets to show details at the
scale of the map. The number of the sheet and the total number of sheets
comprising the tentative map shall be stated on each of the sheets and its
relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown.
      5.   Location, names, present right-of-way and physical dimension, and
approximate grades of adjacent roads, streets, highways or ways, names and
dimensions of abutting subdivisions and properties.
      6.   The locations, names, and widths of all streets in the proposed
subdivision.
      7.   Radius of each curve (in accordance with Section
407.03, Design and Construction Standards).
      8.   Typical cross sections of any non-standard streets.
      9.   The outline of any existing buildings and their locations in
relation to existing or proposed street and lot lines. The location of existing
wells and sewage disposal facilities and the proposed disposition of same.
      10.   Contour lines shall be shown with the following intervals
(Development within the Hillside Zone shall comply with Chapter 501, Hillside
Zone Overlay District):
         a.   One (1) foot contour interval for ground slopes between level and
five (5) percent.
         b.   Five (5) foot contour intervals for ground slopes exceeding five
(5) percent.
      11.   The approximate widths, location and purpose of all existing or
proposed easements.
      12.   Approximate lot layout and approximate dimensions of each lot, and
each to be numbered.
      13.   The area of the subdivision in gross area and net area (excluding
streets and other proposed public uses).
      14.   Approximate location of all areas subject to inundation or storm
water overflow and the location, width, grade and direction of flow of all
watercourses and the location of all floodplain lines.
      15.   Public areas proposed.
      16.   City limit lines.
      17.   Vicinity map showing the proposed subdivision and surrounding
streets within one-fourth (1/4) mile radius of the proposed subdivision.
      18.   Location of trees to remain in place and landscaping proposed to
remain in public right-of-way.
      19.   Show all proposed dedications and irrevocable offers of dedication.
      20.   The location and sizes of existing and proposed utility lines and
structures.
      21.   The elevation of sewers at the proposed connection.
      22.   Any other drawings, data or information as deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator and/or the City Engineer.
      23.   The Zoning Administrator may waive any of the above tentative map
requirements if the location and nature of the proposed subdivision or existing
documentation demonstrate that a waiver is justified.
   B.   Owner’s Statement and Accompanying Data. Additional information
relating to the subdivision which may not practicably be shown on the tentative
map shall be contained in similar supplemental maps or written owner’s
statement which shall accompany the tentative map and include the following
information. Any information that is engineering in nature shall be provided by
a Civil Engineer.
      1.   Existing use or uses of the property, present zoning, and General
Plan designation.
      2.   Proposed uses of the property indicating respective proportion of
the total area of the subdivision represented by each.
      3.   General outline of proposed water system.
      4.   Provisions for sanitary sewage disposal and general outline of
proposed system.
      5.   Plan for surface drainage and flood control and general outline of
proposed system.
      6.   Proposed street improvements for sidewalk, curb and gutter, and
paving of public ways, as required, indicating approximate location and
dimensions of the proposed system.
      7.   If developed in increments, maps shall indicate approximate sequence
of development.
      8.   Environmental Information Form.
      9.   Additional data and information, including fees, as may be required
for the preparation and processing of environmental documents pursuant to the
California Environmental Quality Act.
      10.   Any other data or reports deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator and/or the City Engineer. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
402.03: EXPIRATION OF MAPS AND EXTENSIONS OF TIME:
   A.   Expiration. When a timely filing is made prior to expiration,
subsequent actions of the City Council or Parcel Map Committee, as appropriate,
including, but not limited to, processing, approval, and recordation, may
lawfully occur after the date of expiration of the tentative map. Delivery to
the City Engineer shall be deemed a timely filing for purposes of this section.
The effective life of an approved tentative parcel map or tentative subdivision
map shall comply with the provisions of Section 66463.5 and 66452.6 of the Map
Act, respectively. The expiration of an approved or conditionally approved
tentative map shall terminate all proceedings and no final map or parcel map of
all or any portion of the real property included within the tentative map shall
be filed with the City Council or Parcel Map Committee, as appropriate, without
first processing a new tentative map.
   B.   Extension. Extensions for tentative parcel maps and tentative
subdivision maps may be granted pursuant to the provisions of Section 66463.5
and 66452.6 of the Map Act, respectively. Upon application of the subdivider,
prior to the expiration of the approved or conditionally approved tentative
map, the time at which the map expires may be extended by the Parcel Map
Committee or by the City Council.
      1.   Request for Extension. Prior to the expiration of an approved or
conditionally approved tentative map, upon receipt of a written application by
the subdivider to extend that map, the map shall automatically be extended for
sixty (60) days or until the application for the extension is approved,
conditionally approved, or denied, whichever occurs first. A written
application to extend an approved or conditionally approved tentative map shall
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator prior to expiration of the tentative
map, who shall forward such to the City Council or Parcel Map Committee, as
appropriate. If the Parcel Map Committee denies a subdivider’s application for
an extension, the subdivider may appeal, in writing, to the City Council within
ten (10) days after the Parcel Map Committee has denied the extension.
      2.   Consideration of Extension Request. Consideration of an application
for an extension of time shall be limited to the mandatory findings of
significance contained in the original Parcel Map Committee conditions or City
Council resolution which approved or conditionally approved the tentative map.
If it can be reasonably demonstrated that any one (1) of the original mandatory
findings of significance used to justify approval or conditional approval of
the tentative map, as specified in the original resolution has changed to the
extent it can be considered a cause for denial, then such request for extension
may be denied.
      3.   Companion Permits. When a tentative map is approved or conditionally
approved in conjunction with a Conditional Use Permit or other discretionary
permit, such permit shall expire at the same time as the tentative map unless
the permit states a different expiration date approved by the City Council.
Extensions of time of tentative maps approved with companion Conditional Use
Permits or other discretionary permits may also include extensions of time for
such companion permits to exceed the maximum appropriate time limit permitted
by this section. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 403. VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
SECTION:
403.01: Vesting Tentative Maps Generally
403.02: Vesting Of Development Rights
403.01: VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS GENERALLY:
   A.   Citation and Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to the
authority granted by Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 66498.1) of Division
2 of Title 7 of the Government Code of the State of California (hereinafter
referred to as the vesting tentative map statute).
   B.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to establish procedures
necessary for the implementation of the vesting tentative map statute, and to
supplement the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act.
   C.   Consistency. No land shall be subdivided and developed pursuant to the
vesting tentative map for any purpose which is inconsistent with the General
Plan and any applicable specific plan, or not permitted by this Ordinance or
other applicable provisions of the Municipal Code, which were in effect at the
time the vesting tentative map was approved or conditionally approved.
   D.   Application.
      1.   Whenever a provision of the Map Act, as implemented and supplemented
by this Series, requires the filing of a tentative map, a vesting tentative map
may instead be filed, in accordance with the provisions hereof.
      2.   If a subdivider does not seek the rights conferred by the vesting
tentative map statute, the filing of a vesting tentative map shall not be a
prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision, permit for
construction, or work preparatory to construction.
   E.   Filing and Processing. A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the
same form and have the same contents, accompanying data and reports and shall
be processed in the same manner as set forth in this Series for a tentative
map, except as hereinafter provided:
      1.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed it shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words “vesting tentative map.”
      2.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, a subdivider may be
required to supply the following information in addition to the requirements
set forth in Section
402.02, Form of Map and Content:
         a.   Height, size, and location of buildings.
         b.   Geological studies.
         c.   Architectural plans.
         d.   Any other studies that are normally deferred to the building
permit stage.
   F.   Expiration. The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative
map shall expire at the end of the same time period, and shall be subject to
the same extensions established by
402.03 Expiration of Maps and Extensions of Time for the expiration of the
approval or conditional approval of a tentative map. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
403.02: VESTING OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS:
   A.   Review Authority Action.
      1.   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map
shall confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial
compliance with the ordinances, policies and standards described in Government
Code Section 66474.2. However, if Section 66474.2 of the Government Code is
repealed, the approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, policies and standards in effect at the time the vesting
tentative map is approved or conditionally approved.
      2.   Notwithstanding paragraph A1 above, a permit, approval, extension or
entitlement may be made conditional or denied if any of the following are
determined:
         a.   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision
or the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health
or safety, or both.
         b.   The condition or denial is required, in order to comply with
state or federal law.
   B.   Time Limits and Extensions of Time on Vesting Tentative Maps. The
rights referred to herein shall expire if a final map is not approved prior to
the expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided below. If the final map
is approved, these rights shall last for the following periods of time:
      1.   An initial time period of two (2) years. Where several final maps
are recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting
tentative map, this initial time period shall begin for each phase when the
final map for that phase is recorded.
      2.   The initial time period set forth in paragraph B1 above shall be
automatically extended by any time used for processing a complete application
for a grading permit or for design or architectural review, if such processing
exceeds thirty (30) days, from the date a complete application is filed.
      3.   A subdivider may apply for a one (1) year extension at any time
before the initial time period set forth in paragraph B1 above expires.
      4.   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit during the periods of time specified in paragraphs B1, B2, and B3 above,
the rights referred to herein shall continue until the expiration of that
period, or any extension of that permit.
   C.   Development Inconsistent with Zoning Conditional Approval
      1.   Whenever a subdivider files a vesting tentative map for a
subdivision whose intended development is inconsistent with this Ordinance,
that inconsistency shall be noted on the map. The city may deny such a vesting
tentative map or approve it conditioned on the subdivider/applicant obtaining
the necessary change in the Ordinance to eliminate the inconsistency. If the
change in the Ordinance is obtained, the approved or conditionally approved
vesting tentative map shall, notwithstanding subsection A1 above, confer the
vested right to proceed with the development in substantial compliance with the
change in the Ordinance and the map, as approved.
      2.   The rights conferred by this subdivision shall be for the time
periods set forth in subsection B above.
   D.   Applications Inconsistent with Current Policies. Notwithstanding any
provision of this section, the applicant may seek approvals or permits for
development which depart from the ordinances, policies and standards and local
agencies may grant these approvals or issue these permits to the extent that
the departures are authorized under applicable law. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 404. FINAL MAPS
SECTION:
404.01: Filing Final Map
404.02: Form Of Map And Content
404.03: Approvals
404.01: FILING FINAL MAP:
   A.   Within the time limit designated in Section 402.03, Expiration of Maps
and Extensions of Time, and upon the accomplishment of all dedication by
certification on the map and required construction of all public improvements,
or the execution of an agreement and provision of surety providing therefore
and the payment of all applicable fees and charges, the applicant may file with
the City Engineer, who shall approve, a final map which shall substantially
conform to the approved tentative map and all applicable provisions of the Map
Act. The appropriate statements as provided by the applicant in accordance with
the provisions of the Map Act, shall be signed by the City Engineer upon the
final map; and the final map shall be transmitted to the Clerk of the County
Board of Supervisors for ultimate transmittal to the county recorder.
      1.   Multiple Final Maps. Multiple final maps may be filed if the
subdivider informs the Zoning Administrator in writing of his or her intention
to file multiple final maps, at the time the tentative map is filed or, if the
Zoning Administrator and the subdivider concur to the filing of multiple final
maps after the filing of the tentative map.
      2.   Effect of Multiple Final Maps. The filing of a final map on a
portion of an approved or conditionally approved tentative map shall not
invalidate any part of the requirements to provide for the construction of
improvements as required to constitute a logical and orderly development of the
whole subdivision.
   B.   The subdivider shall file three (3) copies of the final map and
required accompanying data with the City Engineer. The said final map shall be
accompanied by filing fees as specified in the comprehensive fee schedule. When
a final map is submitted to the City Engineer in accordance with this Series,
it shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      1.   Improvement Plans. The original detailed plans, cross sections and
profiles of all improvements proposed to be installed as required by the
provisions of this Series, and of all other improvements proposed to be
installed by the subdivider in, on, over, or under any street, right-of-way,
easement or parcel of land dedicated by the map or previously dedicated,
including the estimated cost thereof, shall be filed with the City Engineer or
Engineering and Project Management Director for their approval and signature.
All such plans shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
City Engineer or Engineering and Project Management Director. Plan sheets shall
be twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24" X 36") and a plan and profile
drawn to a scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'), or an appropriate
scale previously approved by the City Engineer.
      2.   Traverse Sheets. Calculation and traverse sheets in a form approved
by the City Engineer giving bearings and distances, coordinates, error of
closure and areas within the boundary of the subdivision and blocks and lots
therein shown on the final map.
      3.   Design Data. Design data, assumptions and computations for proper
analysis in accordance with sound engineering practice.
      4.   Report and Guarantee of Title. The final map shall be accompanied by
a current (within six (6) months of the final map filing date) report prepared
by a duly authorized title company naming the persons whose consent is
necessary for the preparation and recordation of such map, and for dedication
of the streets, alleys and other public places shown on the map and certifying
that, as of the date of the preparation of the report, the persons wherein
named are all the persons necessary to give clear title to such subdivision. At
the time of recording said map, following approval by the City Council, there
shall be filed with the County Recorder a guarantee executed by a duly
authorized title company for the benefit and protection of the city showing
that the persons consenting to the preparation and recordation of such map and
offering for dedication the streets, alleys and other public places shown
thereon are all the persons necessary to pass clear title to such subdivision
and to the dedications shown thereon. The report should also include a
statement of explanation of why any right-of-way or easement holders across the
subdivision need not sign the map if they are not included as needed to pass a
clear title.
      5.   Preliminary Soils Report. A preliminary soil report prepared by a
qualified engineer registered by the State of California, based upon adequate
test borings or excavations. The soil report that has been prepared shall be
kept on file for public inspection. The preliminary soil report may be waived
by the City Engineer or Engineering and Project Management Director if adequate
existing data is available as to the soil qualities of the soils of the
subdivision. If the preliminary soil report indicates the presence of
critically expansive soils or other soil problems which, if not corrected,
would lead to structural defects, a soil investigation of each lot in the
subdivision may be required, prepared by a qualified engineer registered by the
State of California. The soil investigation shall recommend corrective action
intended to prevent structural damage to each dwelling proposed to be
constructed on expansive or unstable soil. The report shall be filed with the
Building Department. If the preliminary soils report indicates the presence of
naturally-occurring asbestos, a construction dust management plan shall be
prepared.
      6.   Utility Statements. Statements from the various public utility
companies authorized to serve in the area of the subdivision or division of
land certifying that satisfactory provisions have been made to accommodate
their facilities.
      7.   Improvement Agreements. With final review; all agreements,
improvement security required by state law or this Ordinance, and offer(s) of
dedication. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
404.02: FORM OF MAP AND CONTENT:
   A.   The final map shall be prepared by or under the direction of a
registered civil engineer authorized to practice land surveying or licensed
land surveyor, shall be based upon a survey, and shall conform to all of the
following provisions:
      1.   It shall be legibly drawn, printed, or reproduced by a process
guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester base
film. Statements, certificates, affidavits, and acknowledgments may be legibly
stamped or printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink is used on polyester
base film, the ink surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure
permanent legibility.
      2.   The size of each sheet shall be eighteen inches by twenty-six inches
(18" X 26") inches or four hundred sixty by six hundred sixty (460 X 660)
millimeters. A marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet,
leaving an entirely blank margin of one (1) inch or twenty-five (25)
millimeters. The scale of the map shall be large enough to show all details
clearly and enough sheets clearly and enough sheets shall be used to accomplish
this end. The particular number of the sheet and the total number of sheets
comprising the map shall be stated on each of the sheets and its relation to
each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown.
      3.   All survey and mathematical information and data necessary to locate
all monuments and to locate and retrace any and all interior and exterior
boundary lines appearing on the map shall be shown, including bearings and
distances of straight lines, and radii and arc length or chord bearings and
length for all curves and any information which may be necessary to determine
the location of the centers of curves and ties to existing monuments used to
establish the subdivision boundaries.
      4.   Each lot shall be numbered. Each street shall be named or otherwise
designated. The subdivision name/number shall be shown together with the
description of the real property being subdivided.
      5.   Exterior boundary of the land included within the subdivision shall
be indicated by distinctive symbols and clearly so designated. The map shall
show the definite location of the subdivision, and particularly its relation to
surrounding surveys. If the map includes a “designated remainder” parcel, and
the gross area of the “designated remainder” parcel or similar parcel is five
(5) acres or more, that remainder parcel need not be indicated as a matter of
survey, but only by deed reference to the existing boundaries of the remainder
parcel. A parcel designated as “not a part” shall be deemed to be a “designated
remainder” for purposes of this section.
      6.   On and after January 1, 1987, no additional requirements shall be
included that do not affect record title interests. However, the map shall
contain a notation or reference to additional information required by a local
ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 66434.2.
      7.   Any public streets or public easements to be left in effect after
the subdivision shall be adequately delineated on the map. The filing of the
final map shall constitute abandonment of all public streets and public
easements not shown on the map, provided that a written notation of each
abandonment is listed by reference to the recording data or other official
record creating these public streets or public easements and certified to on
the map by the clerk of the legislative body or the designee of the legislative
body approving the map. Before a public easement vested in another public
entity may be abandoned pursuant to this section, that public entity shall
receive notice of the proposed abandonment. No public easement vested in
another public entity shall be abandoned pursuant to this section if that
public entity objects to the proposed abandonment.
   B.   Survey Requirement. At the time of making a survey for final map, the
engineer or surveyor shall set sufficient durable monuments to conform with
City Standards so that another engineer or surveyor may readily retrace the
survey. At least one (1) exterior boundary line of the land being subdivided be
adequately monumented or referenced before the map is recorded.
      1.   The monuments shall be approved by the City Engineer and shall be
per City Standards. Any monument or bench mark, as required by this section,
which is disturbed or destroyed before acceptance of all improvements shall be
replaced by the subdivider. The monuments shall be set at each corner and angle
point in the exterior and interior boundaries (lot corners) of the subdivision,
except wherein such monuments already exist in their proper positions.
Monuments shall be set on street and alley center lines or offsets thereto at
all street intersections, beginnings and end of curves, angle points or as
otherwise directed by the City Engineer.
      2.   Interior monuments need not be set at the time of the map is
recorded, if the engineer or surveyor certifies on the map that monuments will
be set on or before a specified date, and if the subdivider furnishes to the
city security guaranteeing payment of the cost of setting such monuments in
accordance with Section 66496 of the Map Act.
      3.   Within five (5) days after the final setting of monuments has been
completed, the engineer or surveyor shall give written notice to the subdivider
and to the City Engineer that the final monuments have been set in accordance
with Section 66497 of the Map Act.
   C.   Statements and Acknowledgment. The title sheet of the map, below the
title, shall show the name of the engineer or surveyor together with the date
of the survey, the scale of the map and the number of sheets. The following
statements, certificates, acknowledgments and description shall appear on the
title sheet of final maps, and such statements may be combined where
appropriate:
      1.   Statement by parties holding title. A statement in accordance with
the provisions of Section 66436 and 66445 of the Map Act.
      2.   Dedication Statement. A statement in accordance with Section 66439
of the Map Act.
      3.   Engineer’s or Surveyor’s Statement. A statement in accordance with
Section 66441 of the Map Act.
      4.   Soil Engineer’s Statement. A statement referring to preliminary
soils reports on file with the city in accordance with Section 66434.5 of the
Map Act.
      5.   Statement to be executed. A statement for execution by each of the
following, as applicable:
         a.   City Engineer;
         b.   Surveyor;
         c.   Geotechnical Engineer, Engineering Geologist, or Geophysicist;
         d.   Zoning Administrator;
         e.   City Council;
         f.   City Clerk;
         g.   County Board of Supervisors;
         h.   County Recorder;
         i.   Owner.
      6.   Notation or Reference. Notation or reference to survey and map
information required pursuant to Section 66434.2 of the Map Act.
   D.   Information on Final Maps.
      1.   Each lot shall be consecutively numbered. Each lot shall have its
area shown to the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of an acre or nearest square
foot. The exterior boundary of the land included within the lot or lots being
created shall be indicated by a distinctive border. Such border shall not
interfere with the legibility of figures or other data. The map shall show the
definite location of such lot or lots, and particularly the relationship to
existing surveys.
      2.   The final map shall also contain the following information:
         a.   The tentative map number or vesting tentative map number and date
of preparation within the Zoning Administrator’s Statement
         b.   The net dimensions of each lot. No ditto marks shall be used.
         c.   The names, locations and right-of-way widths of all abutting
public streets.
         d.   The proposed location, purpose and width of all proposed public
roads and private access easements.
         e.   The boundaries of any private easement, whether an easement or
record or a prescriptive easement, shall be shown by means of a dotted line;
and the name of the person owning the easement shall be shown on the map.
         f.   Location and widths of easements for public utilities, if
required.
         g.   The location and widths of watercourses and areas subject to
inundation, and location of selected flood lines within the lots being created.
         h.   Building setback lines, if applicable.
         i.   A north point and graphic scale.
         j.   Location or vicinity map at a minimum scale of one (1) inch
equals one (1) mile.
         k.   Names of the subdivider(s) of the property being divided. (Ord.
1870, 6-2-2020)
404.03: APPROVALS:
   A.   Approval by City Engineer. Upon receipt of the final map and other data
submitted therewith, the City Engineer shall examine such to determine that the
subdivision as shown is substantially the same as it appeared on the tentative
map, and any approved alterations thereof, that all provisions of this Series
or any other ordinance and the Map Act applicable at the time the application
for the tentative map is deemed complete, and who is satisfied that the map is
technically correct. If the City Engineer shall determine the final map is not
in full conformity with the tentative map, the City Engineer shall advise the
subdivider of the changes or additions that must be made for such purposes, and
shall afford the subdivider an opportunity to make such changes or additions.
If the City Engineer determines that full conformity therewith has been made,
they shall transmit said map to the City Council for approval in the case of a
final map.
   B.   City Council Approval - Final Map.
      1.   The City Council shall, at the meeting at which it receives the
final map for approval, or at its next regular meeting after the meeting at
which it received the map, approve the map if it conforms to all the
requirements of this Series and the Map Act applicable at the time of approval
or conditional approval of the tentative map and any rulings made thereunder.
      2.   The Council may reject any or all offers of dedication. In the event
that all improvements required or conditions imposed upon approval under the
terms of this Series or by law are not completed before the filing of the final
map, the Council may enter into an agreement with the subdivider for posting
improvement security as provided in this Series. The City Engineer, upon the
approval of the final map by the City Council, shall transmit the map to the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, who shall record same. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 405. PARCEL MAPS
SECTION:
405.01: Final Parcel Map
405.02: Waiver Of Requirements For Parcel Maps
405.01: FINAL PARCEL MAP:
   A.   Final parcel maps. Within the time limit designated in
402.03, Expiration of Maps and Extensions of Time of this Series, and upon the
accomplishment of all dedication by certification on the map and required
construction of all public improvements, or the execution of an agreement and
provision of surety providing therefore and the payment of all applicable fees
and charges, the applicant may file with the City Engineer, who shall approve,
a final parcel map which shall substantially conform to the approved tentative
parcel map and all applicable provisions of the Map Act. The appropriate
statements as provided by the applicant in accordance with the provisions of
the Map Act, shall be signed by the City Engineer upon the parcel map; and the
final parcel map shall be transmitted to the Clerk of the County Board of
Supervisors for ultimate transmittal to the county recorder.
   B.   Survey requirement. In all cases where a parcel map is required, the
parcel map shall be based on a field survey of the land conducted in accordance
with the Land Surveyor’s Act of the State of California. All new lot corners
shall be monumented and based on a field survey. At the discretion of the City
Engineer, a parcel map may be compiled from recorded or filed data when
sufficient recorded or filed data when sufficient recorded or filed survey
monumentation presently exists to enable to retracement of the exterior
boundary lines of the parcel map and the establishment of the interior parcel
or lot lines of the parcel map.
   C.   Information on final parcel map. Each parcel shall be consecutively
numbered. Each parcel shall have its area shown to the nearest one-hundredth
(1/100) of an acre or nearest square foot. The exterior boundary of the land
included within the parcel or parcels being created shall be indicated by a
distinctive border. Such border shall not interfere with the legibility of
figures or other data. The map shall show the definite location of such parcel
or parcels, and particularly the relationship to existing surveys.
      The final parcel map shall also contain the following information:
      1.   The tentative parcel map number or vesting parcel map number,
resolution number printed on the upper right hand corner of the face sheet.
      2.   The net dimensions of each lot. No ditto marks shall be used.
      3.   The names, locations and right-of way widths of all abutting public
streets.
      4.   The proposed location, purpose, and width of all proposed public
roads and private access easements.
      5.   The boundaries of any private easement, whether an easement or
record or a prescriptive easement, shall be shown by means of a dotted line;
and the name of the person owning the easement shall be shown on the map.
      6.   Location and widths of easements for public utilities, if required.
      7.   The location and widths of watercourses and areas subject to
inundation, and location of selected flood lines within the parcels being
created.
      8.   Building setback lines, if applicable.
      9.   A north point and graphic scale.
      10.   Location of vicinity map at a minimum scale of one (1) inch equals
one (1) mile. Names and addresses of the owners of the property being divided.
   D.   Required statements.
      1.   All required dedications of rights-of-way or easements shall be
certified on the final parcel map by appropriate statements in accordance with
Section 66447 of the Map Act.
      2.   All parties having any record title interest in the real property
subdivided shall sign a statement on the final parcel map in accordance with
Subsections 66436 and 66445 of the Map Act.
      3.   A statement of the registered civil engineer or licensed land
surveyor who prepared the survey and the parcel map in compliance with Section
66449 of the Map Act.
      4.   A statement of execution by the City Engineer which complies with
Section 66450 of the Map Act.
      5.   A statement of execution by the Zoning Administrator on behalf of
the Parcel Map Committee certifying that the final parcel map conforms to the
approved tentative parcel map.
      6.   A statement by the City Surveyor which complies with Section 66450
of the Map Act.
      7.   Additional information to be filed or recorded with the final parcel
map as required in accordance with Section 66434.2 of the Map Act. (Ord. 1870,
6-2-2020)
405.02: WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS FOR PARCEL MAPS:
   A.   The requirement for a parcel map may be waived if a finding is made by
the Parcel Map Committee that the proposed division of land complies with all
requirements of this Ordinance as to area, improvement and design, drainage
control, street dedications and improvements, sewer and water supply
availability and environmental protection. No parcel map will be required for
tentative maps approved under this section.
   B.   Approval of an application for a waiver of the requirement of a parcel
map shall automatically constitute approval for the issuance of a certificate
of compliance pursuant to the provisions of Section 66499.35 of the Map Act.
When approval has been given to an application for a waiver of the requirement
of a parcel map, the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer shall issue a
resolution approving the waived parcel map, and shall cause said resolution to
be filed with the county recorder. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 406. REVERSIONS, MERGERS, AND LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
406.01: Reversion To Acreage
406.02: Mergers
406.03: Lot Line Adjustments
406.01: REVERSION TO ACREAGE:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish procedures and
standards, consistent with the requirements of the Subdivision Map Act, for the
reversion of previously subdivided property to acreage.
   B.   Initiation of Proceedings. Proceedings for reversion to acreage may be
initiated by the Parcel Map Committee on its own motion or by petition of all
of the owners of record of the real property within the subdivision.
   C.   Contents of Petition. The petition shall be in a form prescribed by the
Zoning Administrator and shall contain the following:
      1.   Adequate evidence of title to the real property within the
subdivision.
      2.   Sufficient data to enable the legislative body to make all of the
determinations and findings required by this Series, including a three hundred
(300) foot radius map and property owners list.
      3.   A reversion to acreage map which delineates dedications which will
not be vacated and dedications which are a condition to reversion if applicable
and which sufficiently describes all property to be reverted to acreage.
      4.   Such other pertinent information as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator and City Engineer.
   D.   Public Hearing. A public hearing shall be held on the proposed
reversion to acreage. Notice of the time and place of any public hearing shall
be given in conformance with the provisions of Section
601.05, Public Notification.
   E.   Required Findings. Subdivided real property may be reverted to acreage
and a reversion to acreage map approved for recordation only if the City
Council finds that:
      1.   Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or abandoned by
the reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or prospective public
purposes if applicable. Such determination regarding dedicated public streets
shall be made by the City Council in accordance with Division 9, Part 3 of the
Streets and Highways Code of the State of California.
      2.   Either:
         a.   All owners of an interest in the real property within the
subdivision have consented to reversion; or
         b.   None of the improvements required to be made have been made
within two (2) years from the date the final or parcel map was filed for
record, or within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the
improvements, whichever is the later; or
         c.   No lots shown on the final map or parcel map have been sold
within five (5) years from the date such map was filed for record.
   F.   Conditions of Approval. As conditions of reversion, the following shall
be required:
      1.   Dedications or offers of dedication necessary for the purposes
specified by city ordinance following reversion.
      2.   Retention of all previously paid fees if necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this Ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
      3.   Retention of any portion of required improvement security or
deposits if necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Ordinance adopted
pursuant thereto.
   G.   Effective Date. Reversion shall be effective upon the map being filed
for record by the county recorder, and thereupon all dedications and offers of
dedication not shown thereon shall be of no further force or effect.
   H.   Deposits and Securities. When a reversion is effective, all fees and
deposits shall be returned and all improvement security released, except those
retained pursuant to applicable city ordinance, including the stipulations of
this Series. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
406.02: MERGERS:
   A.   Required Mergers. Two (2) or more contiguous parcels or units of land
which have been subdivided under the provisions of the Map Act or any prior law
regulating the division of land or a local ordinance enacted pursuant thereto,
or which were not subject to such provisions at the time of their creation,
shall not merge simply by virtue of the fact such contiguous parcels or units
are held by the same owner. No further proceeding under the provisions of the
Map Act or this Series enacted pursuant thereto shall be required for the
purpose of sale, lease or financing of such contiguous parcels or units,
except, however, the city may provide for the merger of a parcel or unit with a
contiguous parcel or unit held by the same owner if all of the following
requirements are satisfied:
      1.   At least one (1) of the affected parcels is not developed with a
structure, other than an accessory structure, for which a building permit was
issued by the local agency, or which was built prior to the time such permits
were required by the local agency.
      2.   With respect to any affected parcel, one (1) or more of the
following conditions exists:
         a.   Comprises less than five thousand (5,000) square feet in area at
the time of the determination of merger.
         b.   Was not created in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances
in effect at the time of its creation.
         c.   Does not meet current standards for sewage disposal and domestic
water supply.
         d.   Does not meet slope stability standards.
         e.   Has no legal access which is adequate for vehicular and safety
equipment access and maneuverability.
         f.   Its development would create health or safety hazards.
         g.   Is inconsistent with the applicable General Plan and any
applicable specific plan, other than minimum lot size or density standards.
   B.   City Initiated Merger. Notification of Intention to Merge. Prior to
recording a notice of merger, the Zoning Administrator shall cause to be mailed
by certified mail to the current record owner of the property a notice of
intention to determine status, notifying the owner that the affected parcels
may be merged pursuant to standards specified in the merger ordinance, and
advising the owner of the opportunity to request a hearing on determination of
status and to present evidence at the hearing that the property does not meet
the criteria for merger. The notice of intention to determine status shall be
filed for record with the Tulare County Recorder on the date that notice is
mailed to the property owner.
      1.   Request for Hearing. At any time within thirty (30) days after
recording of the notice of intention to determine status, the owner of the
affected property may file with the Zoning Administrator a request for a
hearing on determination of status.
      2.   Procedure for Hearing. Upon receiving a request for a hearing on
determination of status, the Zoning Administrator shall fix a time, date and
place for a hearing to be conducted by the City Council, and shall so notify
the property owner by certified mail. The hearing shall be conducted not less
than thirty (30) days following the receipt of the property owner’s request
therefor, but may be postponed or continued with the mutual consent of the
Zoning Administrator and the property owner.
      3.   Procedure for Determination Following Hearing. At the hearing, the
property owner shall be given the opportunity to present any evidence that the
affected property does not meet the standards for merger specified in the
merger ordinance. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall make
a determination that the affected parcels are to be merged or are not to be
merged and shall so notify the owner of its determination. A determination of
nonmerger may be made whether or not the affected property meets the standards
for merger specified in paragraphs B1 and B2 above. A determination of merger
shall be recorded within thirty (30) days after conclusion of the hearing.
      4.   Determination When No Hearing is Requested. If, within the thirty
(30) day period specified in paragraph B1 above, the owner does not file a
request for a hearing, the Zoning Administrator may, at any time thereafter,
make a determination that the affected parcels are to be merged or are not to
be merged. A determination of merger shall be recorded with the Tulare County
Recorder which specifies the names of the property owners and particularly
describes the real property in question no later than ninety (90) days
following the mailing of the notice required by paragraph B2 above.
      5.   Notice of Intention for Nonmerger. If, in accordance with paragraph
B3 or B4 above, the Zoning Administrator or City Council determines that the
subject property shall not be merged, it shall cause to be recorded a release
of the notice of intention to determine status, and shall mail a clearance
letter to the current owner of record.
   C.   Property Owner Initiated Merger of Contiguous Parcels. Pursuant to
Government Code Section 66499.20.3, a property owner owning contiguous parcels
is authorized to merge those contiguous legal parcels without requiring the
property to be reverted to acreage. Such merger shall be accomplished in
accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   The property owner shall file an application for merger with the
Zoning Administrator, submit evidence of title to all parcels to be affected,
submit a proposed certificate of compliance, and pay the processing fee
established by resolution of the City Council. Mergers shall contain a legal
description of the merged parcel and additional information as requested by the
Zoning Administrator.
         a.   The Zoning Administrator and City Engineer shall consider and
approve the application if it is found that the parcel created by the merger
will conform to the requirements of this code and applicable state law.
         b.   The merger shall be evidenced by recording a certificate of
compliance that is signed by the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer. The
certificate of compliance shall be recorded concurrently with any deed of
easement regarding the relocation or elimination of applicable easements.
   D.   Certificate of Compliance.
      1.   Any person owning real property may request, and the Zoning
Administrator and City Engineer shall determine, whether such real property
complies with the provisions of the Map Act and of this Series. Upon making
such a determination, the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer shall cause a
certificate of compliance to be filed for record with the county recorder. The
certificate of compliance shall identify the real property and shall state that
the division thereof complies with applicable provisions of the Map Act and of
this Series. The applicant shall pay the processing fee established by
resolution of the City Council
      2.   If the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer determine that such
real property does not comply with the provisions of the Map Act or of this
Series, they may, as a condition to granting a certificate of compliance,
impose such conditions as would have been applicable to the division of the
property at the time. Upon making such a determination and establishing such
conditions, the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer shall cause a
conditional certificate of compliance to be filed for record with the county
recorder. Such certificate shall serve as notice to the property owner who has
applied for the certificate pursuant to this section, a grantee of the property
owner, or any subsequent transferee or assignee of the property that the
fulfillment and implementation of such conditions shall be required prior to
subsequent issuance of a permit or other grant of approval for development of
the property. Compliance with such conditions shall not be required until such
time as a permit or other grant of approval for development of such property is
issued by the city. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
406.03: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Lot Line Adjustment. Pursuant to Government Code Section 66412(d), a
lot line adjustment between four (4) or fewer existing adjoining parcels, where
the land taken from one (1) parcel is added to an adjoining parcel, and where a
greater number of parcels than originally existed is not thereby created, may
be approved by the City Engineer and Zoning Administrator or authorized
representatives without the approval and filing of a parcel map. Such lot line
adjustments shall be accomplished in accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   Applications for lot line adjustments shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall be in the form and contain the information required of
a tentative map together with legal descriptions of each parcel.
      2.   The property owner(s) or agent shall file an application for a lot
line adjustment with the city, submit evidence of title to all parcels to be
affected, submit a proposed lot line adjustment map and legal description, and
pay the processing fee established by resolution of the City Council.
      3.   The Zoning Administrator and City Engineer shall consider and
approve the application if it is found that the parcels created by the lot line
adjustment will conform to the requirements of this Ordinance and applicable
state law. Criteria to be considered includes, but is not limited to, standards
relating to lot width and depth and minimum lot area.
      4.   The lot line adjustment shall be evidenced by recording a deed
describing each affected parcel and a city resolution signed by the Zoning
Administrator and City Engineer. The deed and resolution shall be recorded
concurrently with any easement deed regarding the relocation or elimination of
applicable easements. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 407. DEDICATIONS, RESERVATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
407.01: Dedications
407.02: Improvements
407.03: Design And Construction Standards
407.01: DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish the dedications
and reservations that the city may impose on a subdivider as a condition for
approval of a tentative map.
   B.   Required Dedications. When required as a condition for approval of a
tentative map, the subdivider shall dedicate or make an irrevocable offer of
dedication of land within the subdivision that is needed for streets, alleys,
including access rights and abutter’s rights, drainage easements, elementary
school sites, parks, and other easements and parcels of land intended for
public use according to the standards listed below.
      1.   Streets. The subdivider shall dedicate land for streets according to
adopted City Standards. Partial streets shall be discouraged in developments
except in those situations where warranted and when approved by the City
Engineer in accordance with the following:
         a.   Where a full pavement street is constructed along the perimeter
of a subdivision, the subdivider be compensated for this construction by
reimbursement agreement between the subdivider, the city and the adjoining
property owner when development occurs on his property.
         b.   Where a partial street configuration is allowed, the outside edge
shall be a thickened design approved by the City Engineer, and shall be
designed to accommodate the orderly development of adjacent undeveloped
property. No parking signs shall be posted by the subdivider if there are no
lots fronting on the partial street.
         c.   Partial street dedications and improvements shall be wide enough
to permit two (2) lanes of traffic and on-street parking on one (1) side.
      2.   Waiver of Direct Access Right. The Engineering and Project
Management Director may require that offers of dedication of streets include a
waiver of direct access rights from any property shown on the final map as
abutting thereon.
      3.   Public Easements. The subdivider shall dedicate easements of ten
(10) feet in width for public utility, sanitary sewer, water, and drainage
purposes on each side of rear lot lines, along side lot lines, and in planting
strips wherever necessary. Easements of different width may be required, based
on the Engineering and Project Management Director’s determination.
      4.   Drainage Facilities. In accordance with Government Code Section
66483, the city, as appropriate and as permitted by law, shall require payment
of fees for purposes of defraying the costs of constructing master planned
drainage facilities if any part of the land division is located within a master
planned drainage area. Fees required pursuant to this section and associated
with residential, commercial, and/or industrial developments shall be paid
consistent with the provisions of Section 66007 of the California Government
Code.
      5.   Bicycle Paths. When required as a condition for approval of a
tentative map, the subdivider shall dedicate or make an irrevocable offer of
dedication of land that is needed to provide bicycle paths for the use, safety,
and benefit of the residents of the subdivision.
      6.   Bridges and Major Thoroughfares. If a land division or any portion
thereof lies within an area of benefit established in accordance with this
Ordinance or any other city ordinance adopted in accordance with Section 66484
of the Subdivision Map Act, the subdivider shall pay to the city the
apportioned fees applicable to that portion of the land division lying within
such area of benefit, in accordance with the requirements of subparagraph d
below.
         a.   Considerations In Lieu of Fees. The City Council may allow any
subdivider to furnish a consideration in lieu of payment of the fees mentioned
in the preceding paragraph, if the Council finds that such consideration has a
value not less than the fees that would otherwise be payable. The form of
consideration in lieu of fees may include, but shall not be limited to, any of
the following or a combination thereof:
            (1)   Construction of all or part of a bridge project or major
thoroughfare project, as the case may be, for which the area of benefit was
established.
            (2)   Dedication or conveyance of all or part of the site or right-
of-way required for major construction of a bridge project or major
thoroughfare project, as the case may be, for which the area of benefit was
established.
         b.   Value In Excess of Fees. If the City Council finds that the
consideration in lieu of fees has a value in excess of the amount of fees that
would be otherwise payable, the Council may enter into an agreement with the
party furnishing such consideration for reimbursement of the amount of such
excess from moneys, then in or which may later accrue to, the fund into which
such party would have been required to pay fees but for such consideration in
lieu of fees, and to reimburse such party from such fund in accordance with
such agreement.
         c.   Requirement to Construct Facilities. The city shall require a
subdivider to construct any necessary bridge facilities, major thoroughfares,
parts thereof, or contribute to bridge facility or major thoroughfare costs if
the City Council finds that:
            (1)   The subdivider’s cost or contribution would not exceed the
cost of a local facility in lieu of such bridges or major thoroughfares; or
            (2)   A proceeding has been commenced for establishing an area of
benefit for such bridge project or major thoroughfare project and has been
abandoned by reason of majority protest, and that there is a reasonable
probability that use of a local facility in lieu of such bridge would by reason
of traffic, including but not limited to traffic which may be generated by such
land division, constitute a hazard to public safety.
         d.   Establishing Area of Benefit. In accordance with Section 66484(d)
of the California Government Code, an area of benefit as referred to in this
section shall be established in the following manner:
            (1)   The City Council shall hold a public hearing for each area of
benefit to be established. Notice of such hearing shall be given in accordance
with Government Code Section 65091. Such notice shall contain preliminary
information related to the boundaries of the proposed area of benefit, the
estimated cost of the bridge project or major thoroughfare project, as the case
may be, the proposed allocation to the area of benefit, and the proposed method
of fee appointment. Such notice shall also state the date, time and place of
the public hearing, and that written protests may be filed as provided in this
section.
            (2)   Owners of property within the proposed area of benefit may
file written protests with the City Clerk at any time prior to the date and
time fixed for such public hearing. Any protest may be withdrawn by the owner
of the land making the protest by a request in writing filed with the City
Clerk at any time prior to conclusions of such public hearing.
            (3)   If a written protest by the owners of more than one-half (.5)
of the area of the property to be benefited by the improvement, against
establishment of such area of benefit or against the proposed improvements or
acquisitions, is not withdrawn prior to the conclusion of the hearing, then the
proceedings shall be abandoned. In such event, the City Council shall not, for
at least one (1) year from the date of such hearing, commence or carry on any
proceedings for establishment of an area of benefit for the same improvements
or acquisitions.
            (4)   If a written protest by the owners of more than one-half (.5)
of the area of the property to be benefited by the improvement, is not
withdrawn prior to the conclusion of the hearing, against only a portion of the
proposed improvement or acquisition, then the proceedings shall be abandoned
with respect to the proposed improvement or acquisition that has been protested
against. In such event, the City Council shall not, for at least one (1) year
from the date of such hearing, commence or carry on any proceedings for the
establishment of an area of benefit for the improvement or acquisition so
protested against. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit the
Council, within such one (1) year period, from commencing or carrying on new
proceedings for the establishment of an area of benefit for the part of the
improvement or acquisition protested, if it finds by the affirmative vote of at
least four-fifths (4/5) of its members, that the owners of more than one-half
(.5) of the area of the property to be benefited are in favor of going forward
with such portion of the improvement or acquisition.
            (5)   At such public hearing, the City Council shall determine
whether to establish such area of benefit, and if so, shall adopt a resolution
prescribing the boundaries of the area of benefit, stating the cost, whether
actual or estimated, a fair method of allocation of costs to the area of
benefit, and a fair apportionment of fees. A certified copy of such resolution
shall be filed for record with the county recorder.
            (6)   In case of a requirement for any bridge, the City Council
shall find that, prior to said public hearing, the city has adopted at least
thirty (30) days prior to the filing of any tentative map, a circulation
element as part of the General Plan, which identifies railways, freeways,
streams or canyons for which bridge crossings are required, and that the bridge
or each bridge for which such area of benefit is established is one necessary
to satisfy such bridge crossing requirement in such element or provisions of
the general plan.
            (7)   In case of a requirement for any major thoroughfare, the City
Council shall find that, prior to said public hearing, the city has adopted at
least thirty (30) days prior to the filing of any tentative map, a circulation
element as part of the General Plan that identifies those major thoroughfares
whose primary purpose is to carry through traffic and provide a network
connecting to the state highway system, and that the major thoroughfare or
section thereof for which such area of benefit is established is one so
identified in such circulation element.
            (8)   The resolution adopted by the City Council shall require that
the apportioned fees shall be applicable to all property within the area of
benefit and shall be payable as a condition of approval of any final map or any
parcel map or a condition to issuing a building permit thereon, consistent with
the provisions of Section 53077.5 of the Government Code.
            (9)   The area of benefit may include land or improvements in
addition to the land or improvements that are the subject of any map or
building permit application considered at such hearing.
            (10)   Where the area of benefit includes lands not subject to the
payment of fees pursuant to this section, the City Council shall make
provisions for payment of the share of improvement costs apportioned to such
lands from other sources.
            (11)   In the case of major thoroughfares, the method of fee
apportionment shall not provide for higher fees on land that abuts the proposed
improvement, except where the abutting property is provided direct usable
access to the major thoroughfare.
            (12)   In case of major thoroughfares, the payment of fees shall
not be required unless the major thoroughfare is in addition to, or a
reconstruction of, any existing major thoroughfares serving the area at the
time of establishment of the zone of benefit.
            (13)   In the case of a planned bridge facility, the payment of
fees shall not be required unless the planned bridge facility is an original
bridge serving the area of benefit or is an addition to an existing bridge
facility serving such area at the time of establishment of the zone of benefit.
No fees contributed shall be expended to reimburse the cost of construction of
any bridge existing at the time of establishment of the zone of benefit.
         e.   Planned Bridge Facility Fund. A planned bridge facility fund
shall be established for a bridge project within an area of benefit, or if the
area of benefit is one in which more than one (1) bridge is required to be
constructed, a fund shall be established covering all such bridge projects.
Fees paid pursuant to this section on account of a bridge or bridges within an
area of benefit shall be deposited into the fund for such area.
         f.   Planned Major Thoroughfare Fund. A planned major thoroughfare
fund shall be established for each planned major thoroughfare project and each
particular area of benefit which it benefits. Fees paid pursuant to this
section on account of a major thoroughfare project within an area of benefit
shall be deposited into the fund for such area.
         g.   Expenditure of Bridge and Major Thoroughfare Facility Funds.
Moneys in such funds shall be expended solely for the construction of the
improvement project serving the area to be benefited as follows:
            (1)   To reimburse the city for costs advanced or incurred by it
for construction of such improvement project or any portion thereof; and
            (2)   To reimburse any subdivider for the agreed portion of his or
her costs of construction of such improvement project, or portion thereof, in
accordance with a reimbursement agreement entered into with the city, as
mentioned in subparagraph b above.
            (3)      In the event that monies in such funds are insufficient to
accomplish all of the purposes that this section lists, such monies in the fund
shall be apportioned to each such purpose on a pro rata basis.
         h.   Project Completion. After completion of all bridge facility
projects for which a planned bridge facility fund has been established or all
major thoroughfare projects for which a planned major thoroughfare fund has
been established, or in the event of abandonment of any such project, and after
reimbursement of the city and each subdivider entitled thereto under a
reimbursement agreement, as mentioned in subparagraph b above, the City Council
shall determine by resolution the amount of the surplus, if any, remaining in
any such funds or as may accumulate in such funds from time to time. The City
Council shall order any such surplus refunded as follows:
            (1)   There shall be refunded to the current owners of property for
which a fee was previously collected the balance of such monies in the same
proportion which each individual fee collected bears to the total of all
individual fees collected from the particular area of benefit For the purposes
of this paragraph, the term “property for which a fee was previously collected”
shall be deemed to include land within any land division with respect to which
such fees were paid as a condition to its approval and any building with
respect to which such fees were paid as a condition to issuing a building
permit therefor. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fee collected” shall
include, in the case of a subdivider who has entered into a reimbursement
agreement with the city, the aggregate amount of cash fees and the value of the
consideration in lieu of fees furnished by such subdivider.
            (2)   Where property for which a fee was previously collected has
subsequently been subdivided into more than one (1) lot, each current owner of
a lot shall share in the refund payable to the owners of the property for which
a fee was previously collected in the same proportion which the area of each
individual lot bears to the total area of the property for which a fee was
previously collected.
            (3)   There shall be transferred to the city general fund any
remaining portion of the surplus that has not been paid to or claimed by the
persons entitled thereto within two (2) years from the date of adoption of the
resolution declaring a surplus.
            (4)   For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “fee collected”
or any variation thereof, shall also be deemed to include the amount of fees
that would have been payable by a subdivider but for furnishing consideration
in lieu of fees.
         i.   Advances and Voluntary Contributions. The City Council may
authorize advancement of money from the city general fund or from the road fund
to pay the cost of constructing any bridge project or major thoroughfare
project and may reimburse such fund or funds for such advances from the planned
bridge facility fund or the planned major thoroughfare fund established to
finance the construction of such improvements.
            (1)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude the city
from providing funds for the construction of bridge facilities or major
thoroughfares to defray costs not allocated to an area of benefit.
            (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude the
subdivider from volunteering to construct a bridge or major thoroughfare or
part thereof, or to contribute to the cost thereof, in excess of the cost of a
local facility, nor to preclude the city from participating in such
construction or carrying out such construction using money so contributed.
      7.   Transit Facilities. When required as a condition for approval of a
tentative map, the subdivider shall dedicate or make an irrevocable offer of
dedication of land within the subdivision for local transit facilities such as
bus turnouts, benches, shelters, landing pads and similar items that directly
benefit the residents of a subdivision.
      8.   Railroad and Grade Crossings. The City Council or the Parcel Map
Committee shall review proposed subdivision plans with respect to existing
railroad crossings and proposed or likely grade separations or other such
facilities and shall require such changes as may be necessary to ensure that
the design and improvement of the subdivision does not interfere with such
future grade separations or other measures. The subdivider shall dedicate or
make an irrevocable offer for dedication of the rights-of-way required for any
grade separation or similar improvement that the General Plan Circulation
Element proposes.
      9.   Solar Access Easements. At such time as the city has adopted solar
access standards, and when required as a condition for approval of a tentative
map, the subdivider shall dedicate or make an irrevocable offer of dedication
of easements for the purpose of assuring that each parcel or unit in the
subdivision for which approval is sought has the ability to receive sunlight
across adjacent parcels or units in the subdivision for any solar energy
system. The dimensions and locations of such easements shall be in accord with
any standards for solar access adopted by the City Council.
      10.   Parkland. As a condition of approval of a tentative map, the city
shall require the subdivider to dedicate or make an irrevocable offer of
dedication of land, to pay a fee in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, for
neighborhood and community open space, park and recreational purposes. In order
to conform to the policies of the General Plan and maintain existing standards
for parks and recreation facilities, the park area required to be dedicated
shall be equal to the ratio of the ultimate population of the subdivision to
the current population of the city multiplied by the total park area within the
city’s planning area at the time of filing of the tentative but in no case
shall be less than three (3) acres of park area per one thousand (1,000)
persons nor more than five (5) acres per one thousand (1,000) persons who will
live in the subdivision, calculated as follows:
         a.   The ultimate population of the subdivision is based upon the
approved residential density and the average household size for the type of
unit;
         b.   Total population of the city shall be as reported in the most
recent available federal census;
         c.   Current park acreage shall be the amount of neighborhood and
community park acreage identified in the General Plan or any more recent
records, maps, or reports.
      11.   Elementary School Sites. As a condition of approval of a final
subdivision map, a subdivider who develops or completes the development of one
(1) or more subdivisions within one (1) or more school districts maintaining an
elementary school may be required to dedicate to the school district or
districts such lands as the district shall deem necessary for the purpose of
constructing elementary schools necessary to assure the residents of the
subdivision adequate elementary school service.
         a.   Procedure. The requirement of dedication shall be imposed at the
time of approval of the tentative map. If within thirty (30) days after the
requirement of dedication is imposed by the city the school district does not
offer to enter into a binding commitment with the subdivider to accept the
dedication, the requirement shall be automatically terminated. The required
dedication may be made any time, before, concurrently with, or up to sixty (60)
days after the filing of the final map on any portion of the subdivision.
         b.   Payments to Subdivider. The school district shall, if it accepts
the dedication of land, repay the subdivider the original cost of the dedicated
land, plus a sum equal to the total of the following:
            (1)   Improvement Costs. The cost of any improvements to the
dedicated land since acquisition by the subdivider;
            (2)   Assessed Taxes. The taxes assessed against the dedicated land
from the date of the school district’s offer to enter into the binding
commitment to accept the dedication;
            (3)   Other Costs. Any other costs incurred by the subdivider to
maintain the dedicated land, including interest costs incurred on any loan on
the land.
         c.   Exceptions. The requirements for dedication shall not apply to a
subdivider who has owned the land being subdivided for more than ten (10) years
prior to the filing of the tentative map.
   C.   Acceptance of Dedications. At the time the city approves a final map or
parcel map, the city shall also accept subject to improvement, or reject, any
offer of dedication. The Council or the Engineering and Project Management
Director, on behalf of the City Council pursuant to Section 1806 (c) of the
Streets and Highways Code, may accept said dedications. The City Clerk shall
certify or state on the map the city’s action.
      1.   Offers of Dedication. If at the time the final map is approved, any
streets, paths, alleys, or storm drainage easements are rejected, the offer
shall remain open and the Council or the Engineering and Project Management
Director may, by resolution at any later date and without any further action by
the subdivider, rescind the city’s action and accept and open the streets,
paths, alleys or storm drain easements for public use which acceptance shall be
recorded in the office of the county recorder. Dedications and acceptance or
rejection of parcels of land for elementary school sites, public utility and
other easements on parcels of land not previously specified shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Map Act.
      2.   Termination of Offers. Offers of dedications may be terminated and
abandoned in the same manner as prescribed for the summary vacation of streets
by Part 3 (commencing with Section 8300) of Division 9 of the Streets and
Highways Code.
   D.   Recording Dedications. The city shall record a certificate with the
county recorder for any dedication in fee for public purpose or for making
public improvements or constructing public facilities, other than for open
space, parks, or schools. The certificate shall be attached to the map and
shall contain all of the following:
      1.   The name and address of the subdivider dedicating the property.
      2.   A legal description of the real property being dedicated.
      3.   A statement that the city shall reconvey the property to the
subdivider if the city makes a determination that the same public purpose for
which the property was dedicated does not exist, or the property or any portion
thereof is not needed for public utilities.
   E.   Reservations.
      1.   General. As a condition of approval of a tentative map, the
subdivider shall reserve sites, appropriate in area and location, for parks,
recreational facilities, fire stations, libraries or other public uses
according to the standards and formula contained in this section.
      2.   Standards for Reservation.
         a.   Such requirement is based upon an adopted specific plan or an
adopted General Plan containing policies and standards for those uses, and the
required reservations are in accordance with those policies and standards.
         b.   The ordinance has been in effect for a period of at least thirty
(30) days prior to the filing of the tentative map.
         c.   The reserved area is of such size and shape as to permit the
balance of the property within which the reservation is located to develop in
an orderly and efficient manner.
         d.   The amount of land reserved will not make development of the
remaining land held by the subdivider economically unfeasible. The reservation
area shall conform to the adopted specific plan or General Plan and shall be in
such multiples of streets and parcels as to permit an efficient division of the
reserved area in the event that it is not acquired within the prescribed
period; in such event, the subdivider shall make those changes as are necessary
to permit the reserved area to be developed for the intended purpose consistent
with good subdividing practices.
      3.   Procedure. The city shall, at the time of approval of the final map
or parcel map, enter into an agreement to acquire such reserved area within two
(2) years after completion and acceptance of all improvements required as a
condition of such map, unless such period of time is extended by mutual
agreement.
      4.   Payment. The purchase price shall be the market value thereof at the
time of the filing of the tentative map plus the taxes against such reserved
area from the date of the reservation and any other costs incurred by the
subdivider in the maintenance of such reserved area, including interest costs
incurred on any loan covering such reserved area.
      5.   Termination. If the city does not enter into a binding agreement,
the reservation of such area shall automatically terminate. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-
2020)
407.02: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements. The subdivider shall install improvements in
accord with the general requirements set forth in this chapter; provided,
however, the Engineering and Project Management Director may require changes in
typical sections and details if unusual conditions arise to warrant such
changes.
   B.   Standard Specifications. All improvements shall conform to the
requirements contained in the City of Porterville Standard Plans and
Specifications, Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, Caltrans
Standard Specifications for street structural section components, and Work Area
Traffic Control Handbook, as all of same now exist or are subsequently amended.
Copies shall be maintained on file in the office of the City Clerk and the
Engineering and Project Management Director.
   C.   Improvement Plans. Construction of improvements shall not commence
until calculations, plans, profiles, and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the City Engineer or Engineering and Project
Management Director. Such items shall be approved prior to recording the final
map. Construction of all improvements shall conform to the approved improvement
plans and specifications and approved amendments thereto. After construction is
completed, the subdivider’s engineer shall show all changes made on the
original set of plans and provide them to the city marked “as built plans.”
   D.   Improvement Construction Inspection and Supervision. All improvements
shall be inspected and approved by the Engineering and Project Management
Director or its authorized representative. The subdivider shall be responsible
for the actions of its contractor. Twenty-four (24) hours minimum notice will
be required prior to an inspection by city personnel.
   E.   Plan Check and Inspection Fees. Subdivider shall be required to pay a
plan check and inspection fee which shall include all charges for engineering
and inspection services and rendered by the city. The plan check and inspection
fee shall be as indicated in the City Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
   F.   The plan check fee shall be paid prior to commencement of plan checking
by the city. The inspection fee shall be paid prior to any construction work
requiring inspection.
   G.   Required Improvements Enumerated. The subdivider shall improve, or
agree to improve, all streets, highways, or ways in or adjacent to the
subdivision. All improvements shall be installed to permanent line and grade in
accordance with the approved improvement plans for that subdivision on file
with the Engineering and Project Management Director. Improvements which the
subdivider shall make, or agree to make, at the cost of the subdivider, shall
be as follows:
      1.   Underground Utilities. All utility distribution facilities,
including but not limited to electric, communication, and cable television
lines installed in and for the purpose of supplying service to any subdivision,
shall be placed underground in accordance with the utility’s rules and
regulations on file with the California Public Utilities Commission. Equipment
appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface-mounted transformers,
street light poles, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets and
concealed ducts may be installed above the surface of the ground. The
subdivider is responsible for complying with the requirements of this section
and shall make the necessary arrangements with the utility companies involved
for the installation of said facilities. All underground utilities, sanitary
sewers, and storm drains installed in streets, service roads, alleys or
highways shall be constructed in accordance with the standard specifications
prior to the surfacing of such street, service road, alley or highway. Service
connections for all underground utilities and sanitary sewers shall be placed
in such length as will obviate the necessity for disturbing the street or alley
improvements when service connections thereto are made.
      2.   Streets. All streets shall be graded and surfaced to cross sections
and grades approved the Engineering and Project Management Director.
      3.   Structures. Structures shall be installed as required for drainage,
access and/or public safety. Such structures shall be placed to grades and
shall be of a design approved by the Engineering and Project Management
Director.
      4.   Grading and Drainage. Site grading and drainage taking into
consideration the drainage pattern of adjacent improved and unimproved property
and treating upstream areas, where appropriate, as though fully improved.
      5.   Sidewalks, Curbs, Gutters and Driveway Approaches. Curbs, gutters,
sidewalks and driveway approaches shall be installed to grades approved by the
Engineering and Project Management Director.
      6.   Sanitary Sewers. Sanitary sewer facilities connecting with the
existing city sewer system shall be installed to serve each lot and to grades,
locations, design and size approved by the Engineering and Project Management
Director. No septic tanks or cesspools shall be permitted.
      7.   Storm Drains. Storm water sewers shall be installed as required by
the Engineering and Project Management Director.
      8.   Water Supply. Each unit or lot within the subdivision shall be
served by an approved public domestic water system.
      9.   Fire Flow and Fire Hydrants. As provided in the California Fire
Code, an approved water supply capable of supplying required fire flow for fire
protection shall be provided to all premises upon which buildings or portions
of buildings are hereafter constructed. The required fire flow shall be
determined by the Fire Chief.
         a.   The location, number, and type of fire hydrants connected to a
water supply capable of delivering the required fire flow shall be provided on
the public street or on the site of the premises to be protected as required
and approved by the Fire Chief. All hydrants shall be accessible to the Fire
Department by access roadways meeting California Fire Code requirements for
“Access Roadways for Fire Apparatus”. Such fire protection facilities including
all surfaces access roads shall be installed and made serviceable by the
subdivider prior to the time of construction.
         b.   When fire hydrants density, as determined by the hydrant spacing
requirement, is not sufficient to provide the required fire flow, additional
fire hydrants may be required by the Fire Chief.
         c.   Design, locations, and layout of water mains and fire hydrants
shall be approved by the Engineering and Project Management Director and the
Fire Chief, and shall be installed by the subdivider.
      10.   Subdivision Trees. Subdivision trees and landscaping design shall
be approved by the city and shall be planted at a time and in locations
approved by the Parks and Leisure Services Director, all in general accord with
the requirements of the Porterville Municipal Code.
         a.   At least one (1) tree shall be planted on each residential lot.
Five (5) gallon trees shall be installed upon all lots abutting interior, local
and collector street, and fifteen (15) gallon trees shall be planted upon
parcels having frontage on arterial thoroughfares.
         b.   The subdivider shall be required to plant street trees at thirty-
five (35) feet on center along all parkways (including median island parkways
and parkway strips located between the sidewalk and back of curb) within and/or
bordering the subdivision.
      11.   Street Signs. Street signs shall be installed by the city at the
subdivider’s expense. Any required barricades to prevent traffic access at
dead-end streets shall be provided by the subdivider in accord with the
standard specifications.
      12.   Street Lights. Street lights shall be installed by the subdivider
at locations designated by the City Engineer.
      13.   Railroad Crossings. Provisions shall be made for any and all active
rail lines necessary to provide access to, or circulation with, the proposed
subdivision, including the preparation of all documents necessary for
application to the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California for
the establishment and improvement of such crossing.
      14.   Lot Corners. The subdivider’s engineer shall set at all lot corners
a marker consisting of a one (1) inch diameter iron pipe eighteen (18) inches
long, with the surveyor or engineer’s marker thereon.
      15.   Benchmarks. The subdivider’s engineer shall set at least two (2)
bench marks in the subdivision tied to North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
      16.   Temporary Drainage Reservoir lots. Temporary drainage reservoir
lots, when approved, shall be designed and constructed to the requirements of
the Engineering and Project Management Director and the Parks and Leisure
Services Director.
      17.   Others. Other improvements deemed necessary by the City Council for
the public health, safety or welfare.
   H.   Agreement for Installation of Improvements. Prior to the approval by
the City Council of the final map, the subdivider shall execute and file an
agreement between the subdivider and the city, specifying a period of time,
agreeable to the Engineering and Project Management Director, which shall be
not greater than one (1) year, within which all improvement work shall be
completed to the satisfaction of the Engineering and Project Management
Director, and providing that if the subdivider shall fail to complete such work
within such period, the city may complete the same and recover the full cost
and expense thereof from the subdivider. The agreement shall also provide for
inspection of all improvements by the Engineering and Project Management
Director or designee and reimbursement to the city by the subdivider for the
cost of such inspection. Such agreements may also provide:
      1.   For the construction of the improvements in units.
      2.   For an extension of time under conditions therein specified.
      3.   For the termination of the agreement upon the completion of
proceedings under an assessment district act for the construction of
improvements deemed by the Engineering and Project Management Director to be at
least the equivalent of the improvements specified in such agreement and
required to be constructed by the subdivider.
      4.   For progress payments to the subdivider, or his order, from any
deposit money which the subdivider may have made in lieu of providing a surety
bond, as provided in this chapter; provided, however, that no such progress
payment shall be made for more than ninety (90) percent of the value of any
installment of work, and provided that each such installment of work shall be
completed to the satisfaction of the Engineering and Project Management
Director.
      5.   The subdivider to arrange a preconstruction conference with the
city, involving representative(s) of all contractors who are to work on the
improvements, one (1) week prior to the initial start of construction.
      6.   The subdivider to give the city twenty-four (24) hours’ notice to
restarting work if no construction work has been done for two (2) or more prior
work days.
   I.   Construction of Improvements Absent Subdivision Agreement. If the
subdivider chooses to construct improvements absent a subdivision agreement,
pertaining to the improvements to be constructed, as specified in Section
407.02(g), Agreement for Installation of Improvements, then the subdivider
shall execute and file a preliminary subdivision agreement between the
subdivider and the city. The preliminary subdivision agreement shall specify a
period of time, not to exceed one (1) year, within which all improvements shall
be completed, and providing that if the subdivider shall fail to complete such
work within such period, the city may increase inspection fees to recover any
additional inspection costs incurred by the city. Such agreements may also
provide for:
      1.   The subdivider to arrange a preconstruction conference with the
City, involving representative(s) of all contractors who are to work on the
improvements, one (1) week prior to the initial start of construction.
      2.   The subdivider to give the City twenty-four (24) hours’ notice to
restarting work if no construction work has been done for two (2) or more prior
work days.
   J.   Improvement Security.
      1.   Security. The subdivider shall file with the agreement required by
the provisions of subsections (g) and (h) above, to assure his full and
faithful performance thereof, a bond or security for such sum as the
Engineering and Project Management Director deems sufficient to cover the cost
of the improvements.
      2.   Security, Form, and Amount. Such security shall be in the manner,
form, and kind provided by the Map Act and acceptable to the city attorney. The
security shall be in the amount of one hundred (100) percent of the estimated
cost of the improvements, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
agreement by the subdivider, and in the additional amount of one hundred (100)
percent of such sum securing the payment by the subdivider to his contractor,
his subcontractors, and to persons renting equipment or furnishing labor or
materials to them for improvements. The security provided shall guarantee
maintenance and/or repair of all defects in required public improvements for a
period of one (1) year following acceptance of said improvements by the city.
In lieu of a one hundred (100) percent performance bond and one hundred (100)
percent labor and materials bond, surety may be assured by the filing of a
letter of credit, cash deposit, or deposit of negotiable bonds, which creates a
trust fund in an amount equal to one hundred and ten (110) percent of the cost
of the work estimated by the Engineering and Project Management Director. Said
trust fund shall be maintained in a financial institution subject to regulation
by the state and federal government with the trust fund limited to the
following conditions:
         a.   Ten (10) percent of the cost, representing a labor and materials
deposit, to be retained for thirty-five (35) days after the filing of the
notice of completion.
         b.   Funds may be discharged from the balance of the surety account
from time to time as work is completed, up to ninety (90) percent of value of
work completed, with authorization of the Engineering and Project Management
Director until all work is completed and the notice of completion is filed; at
which time the remaining funds shall be released thirty-five (35) days
thereafter.
         c.   Prior to final acceptance by the city of improvements, the
subdivider shall provide the city with a one (1) year maintenance bond in the
amount of five (5) percent of the estimated cost of improvements.
      3.   Completion of Work by City. In the event the subdivider shall fail
to complete all improvement work in accordance with the provisions of this
Series and the city shall have completed the same, or if the subdivider shall
fail to reimburse the city for the cost of incidental expenses or to cover the
cost of replacement and the repair of existing streets or other improvements
damaged in the development of the subdivision or requiring repair or
replacement during the one (1) year guarantee period, the city shall demand
performance of the agreement by the subdivider to do such work and reimburse
itself for the cost of work agreed to be performed by the subdivider. If the
amount of the surety bond or cash deposit exceeds all costs and expenses
incurred by the city, the city shall release the remainder of such bond or
certification, less the cost and expense incurred by the city. The subdivider
shall be liable to the city for any costs additional to those secured in an
action to be brought therefore by the city.
   K.   Supplemental Improvements.
      1.   Required. The subdivider may be required to install improvements for
the benefit of the subdivision which may contain supplemental size, capacity or
number for the benefit of property not within the subdivision as a condition
precedent to the approval of a subdivision or parcel map, and thereafter to
dedicate such improvements to the public. Supplemental size, capacity or number
shall mean that size, capacity or number in excess of the minimum standard city
requirements.
      2.   Improvement Security. When constructing off-site improvements, the
subdivider shall file a bond or security in accordance with subsection (i)
above for such sum as the City Engineer deems sufficient to cover the cost of
the improvements to assure his full and faithful performance thereof.
      3.   Reimbursement Agreement. The city shall enter into an agreement for
reimbursement to the subdivider. However, the subdivider shall be reimbursed
only for that portion of the cost of such improvements equal to the difference
between the amount it would cost the subdivider to install improvements to
serve the subdivision only, and the actual cost of oversize improvements or in
the case of Master Plan facilities, the subdivider is entitled to one hundred
(100) percent of the reimburse cost.
      4.   Non-Master Plan Reimbursement Procedures. The subdivider shall
submit a written request, along with supporting documentation to the
Engineering and Project Management Director. To pay the cost of such
reimbursement, the City Council may at its discretion:
         a.   Immediately reimburse the subdivider for the entire cost of
oversizing and thereafter levy a charge upon the real property benefitted
thereby; or
         b.   Collect a reasonable use charge for the account of the
subdividers from persons not within the subdivision using the oversized
improvements.
      5.   Master Plan Reimbursement Procedures. Upon the expiration of thirty
(30) days from the date of the notice of completion, money may be disbursed
from the master plan facilities construction fund to pay for or to reimburse
others for the cost of all the work referred to in said notice of completion;
said money disbursed shall be the actual value of the work completed, as
determined by the Engineering and Project Management Director. The developer
shall submit all documentation necessary to support final payment within ninety
(90) days of the filing of the notice of completion. Failure to do so may void
developer’s right to request reimbursements.
   L.   Utility Fees and Off-Site Charges.
      1.   The subdivider shall pay utility fees for sewer, water and storm
drainage as may be required by applicable Council resolution or ordinance.
      2.   Engineering plan checking, inspection fees, final map review fee,
and off-site charges, i.e., street signs, stop signs, pavement markings, etc.,
shall be paid prior to approval of the subdivision agreement by the City
Council. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
407.03: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Streets and Highways.
      1.   The street and highway design shall conform both in width and
alignment with any general plan circulation element, precise street plans and
other precise plans adopted by the City Council, and right-of-way for any such
street or highway indicated on the General Plan or precise plans shall be
dedicated to the city by the subdivider.
      2.   Streets and highways not otherwise designated on the Circulation
Element of the General Plan shall not be less than those set forth in this
section, except where it can be shown by the subdivider that the topography of
the land is such as to justify narrower width. Increased widths may be required
for bicycle lanes and, when determined necessary, by the City Council in the
public interest. Approval or determination of street classification shall be
made by the City Council.
         a.   Major arterial/major thoroughfare rights-of-way shall not be less
than one hundred sixteen (116) feet in width.
         b.   Minor arterial/minor thoroughfare rights-of-way shall not be less
than ninety-four (94) feet in width.
         c.   Collectors without on-street parking rights-of-way shall not be
less than fifty-four (54) feet in width.
         d.   Collectors with median and without on-street parking rights-of-
way shall not be less than sixty-five (65) feet in width.
         e.   Collectors with on-street parking rights-of-way shall not be less
than sixty- eight (68) feet in width.
         f.   Local residential rights-of-way shall not be less than fifty-six
(56) feet in width.
         g.   Local commercial street rights-of-way shall not be less than
sixty (60) feet in width.
         h.   Cul-de-sac or other dead-end street (that will not provide future
access) serving less than ten (10) homes shall not be less than forty-seven
(47) feet in width.
      3.   Relationship to Existing Streets. The street system in the proposed
subdivision shall relate functionally to the existing streets in the area
adjoining the subdivision and be designed to maximize access points to existing
local and collector streets.
      4.   Center Lines. The center lines of all streets, wherever practicable,
shall be the continuations of the center lines of existing streets, or shall be
offset at least one hundred fifty (150) feet.
      5.   Intersections. Each street intersection shall be as near to a right
angle as is practicable, and no intersection of streets at angles less than
sixty (60) degrees shall be approved, unless necessitated by topographical
conditions as determined by the Engineering and Project Management Director.
      6.   Corner Cut-Offs. At street intersections, the block corners shall
have a corner cut- off sufficient to accommodate a City Standard Street
Intersection Return, inclusive of a wheelchair ramp.
      7.   Cul-de-Sac or Dead-End Streets. Cul-de-sac or dead-end street shall
be no more than six hundred (600) feet in length and shall have a turnaround
having a minimum radius of 47 feet, measured to the property line, and minimum
of forty (40) feet to curb face unless the Engineering and Project Management
Director determines that such turnaround is not necessary.
         a.   Culs-de-sac streets in the residential zone districts may be
permissible at a ratio of twenty (20) percent of lots to be served. When
included in a land division, cul-de-sac streets shall be developed in such a
manner as to provide bicycle and pedestrian pass-through to another street or
cul-de-sac. A cul-de-sac may be approved subject to these requirements for
unusual shaped parcels to maximize development potential. Dead end streets may
be allowed to permit satisfactory future development of adjacent un- or under-
developed property.
         b.   Culs-de-sac and dead end streets shall be avoided in all other
districts. If culs-de-sac and dead end streets cannot be avoided, bicycle and
pedestrian connections shall be provided from the cul-de-sac or dead end street
to nearby public areas and city streets.
      8.   Curve Radius. The center line curve radius on all streets shall be
designed in accordance with acceptable safe engineering practices. In no case
shall the curve radius for an arterial be less than five hundred (500) feet.
Center line curve radius on all other streets shall not be less than two
hundred (200) feet.
      9.   Frontage Streets. When any lots front or side on any arterial,
collector, expressway or freeway, the subdivider may be required to dedicate
and improve a frontage street to provide ingress to and egress from such lots.
Residential properties shall not take access to/from arterial or collector
streets.
      10.   Private Roads and Alleys. Private roads and alleys shall not be
permitted unless a Conditional Use Permit is approved by the City Council and,
if approved, all private roads or alleys shall be constructed to city
standards. Private roads and alleys shall also comply with Section 408.01(e)
Warranty and Reserves.
      11.   Grades of Streets. Streets shall not be less than 0.2 percent and
not greater than seven (7) percent, unless because of topographical conditions
or other exceptional conditions the Engineering and Project Management Director
determines that a grade less than 0.2 percent, or in excess of seven (7)
percent, is necessary.
      12.   Fire Hydrants. The position of any street within twenty (20) feet
of a fire hydrant shall not have a grade in excess of seven (7) percent to
allow for the positioning of a fire suppression unit.
      13.   Access on Arterials. Arterial streets shall not be used to provide
direct access to individual single-family residential lots. When the rear or
side of any lot borders an arterial, the subdivider may be required to execute
and deliver to the city an instrument prohibiting the right of vehicular
ingress and egress from said arterial to said lot.
      14.   Access on Collectors. The use of a collector as primary direct
access to individual single-family residential lots shall not be allowed. When
the rear or side of any lot borders a collector, the subdivider may be required
to execute and deliver to the city an instrument prohibiting the right of
vehicular ingress and egress from said collector to said lot.
         a.   Exception: Access to collectors may be allowed for parcel maps on
lands that cannot be divided further. The infill lots shall have a single or
shared driveway that is designed and constructed in such a way that it prevents
vehicles from backing onto the public rights of way.
   B.   Alleys:
      1.   A developer may propose, or the City Council may require, alleys,
for any of the following reasons, (if alleys are required, they shall be
constructed to city standards):
         a.   Unusual size, shape or topographical character of the property to
be subdivided.
         b.   The relationship to existing or proposed commercial, industrial
or high density residential development or adjacent railroad right-of-way.
         c.   The special nature of the design or density of a residential
subdivision where dwellings are grouped in such a manner as to require access
from other than the street frontage.
         d.   The need to maintain continuity of existing alleys where the
property to be subdivided is located immediately between existing residential
blocks where alleys are provided.
      2.   Residential alleys shall have a minimum dedicated width of twenty
(20) feet.
      3.   Alleys shall be provided where needed to serve existing or proposed
commercial or industrial areas, and shall have a minimum dedicated width of
thirty (30) feet, with adequate provisions for ingress and egress.
      4.   A twenty (20) foot corner diagonal right-of-way cutoff, measured
along the property lines from the point of intersection, will be required where
two (2) alleys intersect. An ADA compliant accessibility ramp shall be
constructed pursuant to the city design standards.
      5.   Alleys shall be so laid out and aligned as to provide reasonable
access for utilities and other services.
      6.   Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited.
   C.   Pedestrian Ways.
      1.   Pedestrian ways ten (10) feet or more in width may be required:
         a.   Through the middle of blocks that are more than six hundred (600)
feet in length;
         b.   To connect culs-de-sac;
         c.   To provide access to playgrounds, parks, schools, shopping
centers, or similar community facilities; and/or
         d.   To provide access to trails or bikeways shown in the General
Plan.
      2.   The subdivider shall install paving, lighting, landscaping, and
fences as approved by the City Council or Parcel Map Committee unless otherwise
waived.
   D.   Bikeways. Bikeways shall be required in all locations shown in the
General Plan or as approved by the City Council or Parcel Map Committee.
Bikeway width, paving, landscaping, fencing, and signs shall be as approved by
the City Council or Parcel Map Committee.
   C.   Trails. Trails shall be developed in all areas identified in the
General Plan, and along all watercourses as shown in the General Plan Land Use
Diagram. Where trails are incorporated in a project design, adequate line of
sight and building orientation shall be provided to ensure that no more than
thirty (30) percent of the length of the trail is not visible from the front
yard setback of an adjacent parcel, with no segment of the trail greater than
180 feet not visible from the front yard setback of an adjacent parcel.
   D.   Street Names.
      1.   All street names shall be approved by the City Council. Duplication
of existing names shall not be allowed, unless the streets are approximately in
alignment with existing streets and not so far removed as to be confusing.
      2.   Names of through streets in a north-south alignment shall be
followed by the designation “street,” and the names of through streets in an
east-west alignment shall be followed by the designation “avenue.”
      3.   Cul-de-sac streets in a north-south alignment shall be followed by
the designations of either “place,” “way” or “drive,” and cul-de-sac streets in
an east-west alignment shall be followed by the designations of either “lane,”
“circle” or “court.”
   E.   Blocks.
      1.   Block Length. Blocks shall not exceed six hundred (600) feet in
length, unless existing adjacent property alignment, topographic, or traffic
conditions justify a variation. Blocks longer than six hundred (600) feet in
length shall provide mid- block pedestrian crossings so that there is no more
than six hundred (600) feet of continuous block without a pedestrian crossing.
Blocks in the Hillside Zone Overlay are exempt from the block length
limitations and requirement for mid- block crossings.
      2.   Block Width. The width of each block shall be sufficient for an
ultimate layout of two (2) tiers of lots, therein of a size required by the
provisions of this chapter, unless the conditions justify or make necessary a
variation from this requirement, such as development adjacent to an arterial.
   F.   Lots.
      1.   Lot Width. Each residential lot or parcel shall have frontage width
of not less than that required by this Ordinance except as approved by the City
Council as provided for in Section 400.05, Authority to Vary Regulations.
      2.   Lot Depth. Lot depths shall not exceed two and one-half (2.5) times
the proposed lot width except where existing topography makes such dimensions
infeasible.
      3.   Lot Area. The area of all lots shall comply with the requirements of
this Ordinance relative to each particular zoning district.
      4.   Lot Frontage. Lots shall have a single frontage on a street; double
frontage lots or lots without street frontage will not be permitted except
where, in the opinion of the Parcel Map Committee or City Council, topographic
or unusual physical conditions justify a deviation from this rule.
      5.   Flag Lot. Residential flag lots may be permitted with a Parcel Map,
if it meets the standard requirements for lot width and lot depth. In measuring
lot depth for a flag lot, the un-developable access strip shall not count
toward lot depth, nor shall it be considered in calculating the depth to width
ratio described in subsection (2) Lot Depth, above.
      6.   Side Lines. The side lines of lots shall, wherever practicable, be
required to run at right angles or radially to the street upon which the lot
faces.
      7.   Lot Numbering. Lot numbers shall begin with the numeral “1", and
shall continue consecutively through all of the units of the tract with no
omissions or duplications, and no block numbers shall be used.
      8.   Division of Lots. No lot shall be divided by a county, city, school,
or any other taxing district boundary lines.
      9.   Suitability of Lots. All lots shall be suitable for the purpose for
which they are intended to be used. Land subject to flooding or deemed by the
Parcel Map Committee or City Council to be non-buildable shall be indicted on
the final map.
      10.   Land Remnants. All remnants of below-minimum size left over after
the subdivision of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   G.   Access Limitation Strips.
      1.   A one (1) foot access limitation strip shall be provided at the dead
end of a stubbed street or at the edge of a partial width street, and shall be
offered for dedication to the city for future street purposes.
      2.   Access limitation strips shall be designated on the final map of the
subdivisions and shall be specifically referred to in dedication and acceptance
certificates.
   H.   Landscaping and Lighting Maintenance Districts. Each subdivision shall
be subject to the creation of a Landscaping and Lighting Maintenance District
in compliance with the Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972 (Streets and
Highways Code §22500 et seq.) to address the extension of improvements such as
but not limited to lighting, common landscape areas, including pocket parks,
perimeter walls, drainage systems beneficial to specific subdivision, drainage
reservoirs, and open space areas, and the maintenance of such facilities
through appropriate mechanisms as approved by the City Attorney. If a
Landscaping and Lighting Maintenance District, Benefit Assessment District, or
similar district is required, the following standards apply:
      1.   Prior to the approval of improvement plans for a development, the
applicant shall submit the following information for the establishment of a
landscaping and lighting maintenance district, the extension of the subject
improvements into the assessment area, and the maintenance of the improvements
once constructed:
         a.   A petition on a form provided by the city requesting to have the
subdivision placed in a district at the time the final map is approved by the
city.
         b.   Completed and approved landscaping and lighting improvement
plans, and legal description.
      2.   The district shall be established, or the annexation into an
existing district concluded, and improvements completed and accepted
concurrently with the other improvements in the subdivision.
      3.   Exclusive of assessments for a district, the applicant shall pay all
service fees and maintain all new district improvements in a safe and healthy
manner for the greater of a ninety (90) day plant establishment period
following acceptance of the subdivision improvements, or until assessment
begins for the district.
   I.   Waiver of Right to Protest District Formation. Prior to final map
approval, each subdivider shall record a document waiving their right to
protest a new assessment or an assessment increase equal to or less than a CPI
adjustment for a city-wide Landscaping and Lighting Maintenance District or
other maintenance district when at least fifty percent plus one (50% + 1) of
the city is already in such district under the provisions of Government Code
Section 53753.
   J.   Grading and Erosion Control. Every map approved pursuant to this Series
shall be conditioned on compliance with the requirements for grading and
erosion control, including the prevention of sedimentation or damage to off-
site property, set forth in of the California Building Code of the most
recently adopted edition. Steep terrain and other topographical features may
limit the abilities of a subdivider to perform mass grading operations. At the
discretion of the Engineering and Project Management Director, individual
grading plans for each individual lot may be submitted with the building permit
in lieu of a mass grading plan normally submitted with the improvement plans.
   K.   Protection of Natural Features and Trees.
      1.   Natural Features. Significant rock outcroppings and other unusual
land forms shall be shown and identified on the tentative map and on
improvement and landscape plans. Such features shall be preserved as required
by the Parcel Map Committee or City Council.
      2.   Trees.
         a.   All existing trees six (6) inches in diameter or over shall be
shown on the tentative map with a notation as to the size, species and
dripline. Trees that are part of an agricultural crop may be shown as the outer
extent of the planting with a notation as to the species and average tree size
and dripline.
         b.   Existing trees six (6) inches or over in diameter may be required
to be preserved. In cases where tree preservation is required, all grading and
necessary tree trimming shall be conducted in accordance with an arborist’s
recommendations for tree preservation.
         c.   Trees within a proposed public right-of-way shall be removed only
for good cause to protect the public safety or to allow the installation of
adequate public facilities as may be approved by the City Engineer and the
Zoning Administrator.
   L.   Storm Water Management Plan. Every map approved pursuant to this Series
shall be conditioned to comply with the requirements of the City’s Storm Water
Management Plan, which includes measures that control construction site run-off
and post-construction run-off.
   M.   Watercourses.
      1.   In accordance with Sections 66478.1 through 66478.10 inclusive of
the Subdivision Map Act, if the land division will front upon a public
waterway, river, or stream, as defined in Section 66478.4(c), access routes and
easements along the bank shall be provided as follows:
         a.   The land division shall provide, or have available, reasonable
public access by fee or easement from a public highway to that portion of the
bank of such river or stream bordering or lying within the proposed land
division, as determined by the Parcel Map Committee or City Council in
accordance with Section 66478.5 of the California Government Code;
         b.   The land division shall provide for a dedication of a public
easement along a portion of the bank of such river or stream bordering or lying
within the proposed land division, as determined by the City Council in
accordance with Section 66478.5 of the California Government Code; and
         c.   The Parcel Map Committee or City Council shall determine the
governmental entity to which such access route or easement shall be dedicated,
and all dedications shall be in accordance with Section 66478.6 of the
California Government Code.
      2.   In accordance with Section 66478.12 of the California Government
Code, if the land division will front upon any lake or reservoir that is owned
in part or entirely by any public agency, including but not limited to the
United States, State of California, or the City of Porterville, the land
division shall be provided with or have available reasonable access by fee or
easement from public highways to the water of the lake or reservoir upon which
the land division borders either within the land division or a reasonable
distance from the land division, as determined by the City Council or the
Parcel Map Committee, as appropriate, in accordance with said statute. The
Parcel Map Committee or City Council shall determine the governmental entity to
which such dedication shall be made.
      3.   If a land division is traversed by a river, stream, or creek, the
subdivider shall leave such river, stream, or creek in its natural condition
whenever practical. Sufficient right-of-way shall be dedicated to the city or
other public entity and improved for flood control purposes as necessary to
accommodate flows of water that would be generated by a flood of one hundred
(100) year frequency. In the event that a land division is to front upon a
river, stream, or creek, the provisions of this paragraph shall apply to that
portion of the bank thereof bordering or lying within the proposed land
division. The Parcel Map Committee or City Council shall determine the
governmental entity to which such dedication shall be made.
      4.   The City Council may disapprove a tentative map because of flood
hazard and inundation, and/or require protective improvements to be constructed
as a condition precedent to approval of the map.
   N.   Drainage Reservoirs.
      1.   Temporary drainage reservoirs will only be allowed in areas where it
has been determined by the Engineering and Project Management Director that it
is not practical to implement the intent of the latest adopted version of the
Storm Drain Master Plan. Landscape and irrigation systems shall be installed as
approved by the Director of Parks and Leisure Services. Maintenance of these
facilities shall be part of the maintenance district created for the benefit of
the subdivision.
      2.   Temporary drainage reservoirs may be approved until such time as
Storm Drain Master facilities are available for connection and shall be granted
to the city as an easement.
      3.   Drainage Reservoirs designated in the Storm Drain Master Plan shall
be considered permanent facilities and title of the land shall be held by the
city in fee. Property acquisitions shall be in the form of a dedication or
purchased in accordance with the City’s Storm Drain Master Plan and City’s
Property and Right-of-Way Acquisitions Policy and Procedures Manual.
Landscaping and irrigation systems shall be installed as approved by the
Director of Parks and Leisure Services. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 408. COMMON INTEREST DEVELOPMENTS (CONDOMINIUMS)
SECTION:
408.01: New Residential Condominiums
408.02: Residential Condominium Conversions
408.03: New Commercial And Industrial Condominiums
408.04: Commercial And Industrial Condominium Conversions
408.01: NEW RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS:
   A.   Purpose. The ownership of residential condominiums is distinguished by
a sharing of responsibility that is not common to most other types of
residential development. As a result, the purpose of this Series is to
establish criteria for the construction of new residential condominiums to
prevent problems inherent in community ownership that might be detrimental to
the health, safety, and welfare of residents of such projects and the community
at large.
   B.   Applicability. The regulations set forth in this Series shall apply to
the construction of new residential condominiums.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit and Maps Required. A conditional use permit and
tentative map approved by the City Council is required for all residential
condominium applications.
   D.   Application and Fees. The applicant of a proposed condominium project
shall submit the required number of copies of the Conditional Use Permit
application and tentative maps to the Zoning Administrator, together with the
requested filing and inspection fees. In addition to the required permit and
map submittals, the applicant shall submit:
      1.   Development Plan. Schematic development plans with dimensions,
consisting of at least a site plan, parking plan, typical floor plan, and
building elevations showing natural and proposed grades;
      2.   Landscaping Plan. A preliminary landscaping plan of the project
indicating the types and sizes of landscaping materials and permanent
irrigation facilities;
      3.   Department of Real Estate Application. A copy of the project
application submitted to the State of California’s Department of Real Estate
for a subdivision public report;
      4.   Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions. The proposed covenants,
conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs); and
      5.   Additional Information. Any other information the Zoning
Administrator finds necessary to evaluate the project.
   E.   Warranty and Reserves.
      1.   Warranty for Improvements. The subdivider shall provide to the
Homeowners’ Association and/or purchaser a one (1) year warranty on all
physical improvements required under this Ordinance.
      2.   Long Term Reserves. Prior to approval of the final map, or parcel
map if no final map is required, the subdivider shall provide evidence to the
city that a long-term reserve fund for replacement has been established in the
name of the homeowners’ association. Such fund shall equal two (2) times the
estimated monthly homeowner’s assessment for each dwelling unit.
   F.   Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions. Project covenants, conditions,
and restrictions (CC&Rs) shall be developed, and shall be reviewed and approved
by the City Attorney and Zoning Administrator prior to approval of the Final or
Parcel Map. In addition to the following provisions, the CC&Rs shall reference
by incorporation the approved Conditions of Approval, and shall be recorded in
conjunction with the Final or Parcel Map.
      1.   Conveyance of Private Open Space. The surface area and appurtenant
air space of Private Open Space areas, including but not limited to the patio,
deck, balcony, solarium, or atrium and any integral portion of that space that
may exceed the minimum area requirements, shall be described and conveyed in
the grant deed as an integral part of the unit.
      2.   Assignment and Use of Required Parking Spaces. Required parking
spaces shall be permanently and irrevocably specifically assigned to particular
units within the project. To the maximum practicable extent, the spaces
assigned to each unit shall be contiguous. In no case shall the private storage
area of one (1) unit overhang or take its access from the required parking
space of another unit. All studio and one (1) bedroom units shall be assigned
one (1) parking space and may rent additional spaces from the Homeowners’
Association. An occupant of a unit with two (2) or more bedrooms may rent one
(1) parking space back to the Homeowners’ Association. All parking spaces,
except those specifically designated for recreational vehicles, shall be used
solely for the purpose of parking motor vehicles as defined by the California
Vehicle Code, and shall not be used for trailers, unmounted campers, boats, or
similar recreational vehicles.
      3.   Right of Public Entry to Common Area. Officers, agents, and
employees of the city, the County, the State, and the United States Government,
and any department, bureau, or agency thereof, shall have the right of
immediate access to all Common Areas at all times for the purpose of preserving
the public health, safety, and welfare, except in those instances where a
Common Area is accessible only through a private unit.
      4.   Maintenance of Common Area. Provision shall be made both for annual
assessments of the owners for maintenance and special assessments for capital
improvements. The amount of the regular annual assessment and the procedure for
its change shall be specified. The manner in which special assessments may be
levied for the purpose of defraying, in whole or in part, the cost of any
construction, reconstruction, repair, or replacement of a capital improvement
upon the Common Area shall be specified. Both annual and special assessments
may be collected on a monthly basis. The remedies which the Homeowners’
Association may bring for the nonpayment of assessments shall be specified and
may include penalties for late payment. Assignment of the maintenance
responsibilities of all improvements and utility systems for each unit shall be
specified.
      5.   Utility Easements over Private Streets and Other Areas. Required
public utility easements shall be referenced and any required access routes
necessary to assure that firefighting equipment can reach and operate
efficiently in all areas.
      6.   Access for Construction, Maintenance, or Repairs. Each Owner and the
Homeowners’ Association shall have an easement for entry upon any privately
owned unit, where necessary, in connection with construction, maintenance, or
repair for the benefit of the Common Area or the owners of the units in common.
      7.   Right to Terminate Management and Maintenance Contracts. Unless
otherwise prohibited by law, or any local, state, or federal regulation,
reference shall be made to the Homeowners’ Association’s right to terminate the
contract of any person or organization engaged by the developer to perform
management or maintenance duties three (3) months after the Homeowners’
Association assumes control of the project, or at that time renegotiate any
such contracts.
      8.   CC&R Amendments. A statement that the CC&Rs shall not be amended,
modified, or changed without first obtaining the written consent of the city.
(Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
408.02: RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Series is to establish criteria for the
conversion of existing multiple-family rental housing to condominiums and to
reduce the impact of such conversions on residents in rental housing who may be
required to relocate due to the conversion.
   B.   Applicability. The regulations set forth in this Series shall apply to
the conversion of existing multiple-family rental housing to condominiums. This
Series shall not apply to a “limited-equity housing cooperative” as defined in
Section 11003.4 of the California Business and Professional Code.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit and Maps Required. A conditional use permit and
tentative map approved by the City Council is required for all residential
condominium conversion applications.
   D.   Application and Fees. The applicant of a proposed condominium
conversion project shall submit the required number of copies of the
Conditional Use Permit application and tentative maps to the Zoning
Administrator, together with the requested filing and inspection fees. In
addition to the required permit and map submittals, the applicant shall submit:
      1.   Physical Elements Report. A report prepared by a registered engineer
or architect or licensed qualified contractor describing the physical elements
of all structures and facilities. The report shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
         a.   Structural Condition of Elements. A report detailing the
structural condition of all elements of the property, including foundations,
electrical, plumbing, utilities, walls, roofs, ceilings, windows, recreational
facilities, sound transmission of each building, mechanical equipment, parking
facilities and appliances. The report shall state, to the best knowledge or
estimate of the applicant, when such element was built; the condition of each
element; when said element was replaced; the approximate date upon which said
element will require replacement; the cost of replacing said element; and any
variation of the physical condition of said element from the current zoning and
from the California Building Code in effect on the date that the last building
permit was issued for the subject structure. The report shall identify any
defective or unsafe elements and set forth the proposed corrective measures to
be employed.
         b.   Pest Control. A report from a licensed structural pest control
operator, on each structure and each unit within the structure.
         c.   Soil Conditions. A report on soil and geological conditions
regarding soil deposits, faults, and groundwater in the vicinity of the project
and a statement regarding any known evidence of soils problems relating to the
structures. Reference shall be made to any previous soils reports for the site
and a copy submitted with said report.
         d.   Repairs and Improvements. A statement of repairs and improvements
to be made by the subdivider necessary to refurbish and restore the project to
achieve a high degree of appearance and safety.
      2.   Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions. The proposed covenants,
conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs).
      3.   Notice of Intent to Convert. Signed copies from each tenant of
Notice of Intent to Convert, as specified in subsection (g) below. The
subdivider shall submit evidence that a letter of notification was sent to each
tenant for whom a signed copy of said notice is not submitted. This requirement
shall be deemed satisfied if such notices comply with the legal requirements
for service by mail.
      4.   Additional Information. Any other information the Zoning
Administrator finds necessary to evaluate the project.
   E.   Filing and Processing.
      1.   Acceptance of Reports. The final form of the Physical Elements
Report and other documents shall be as approved by the city. The reports in
their acceptable form shall remain on file with the Community Development
Department for review by any interested persons. The report shall be referenced
in the subdivision report to the review authority.
      2.   Submittal of Budget. Prior to final map approval, the subdivider
shall provide the city with a copy of the proposed budget for maintenance and
operation of common facilities, including needed reserves. The budget shall
show estimated monthly costs to the owner of each unit, projected over a five
(5) year period, or such time as is required by the Department of Real Estate.
Such budget shall be prepared or reviewed and analyzed by a professional
management firm, experienced with management of condominium complexes. The
management firm shall submit a statement of professional qualifications.
      3.   Copy to Buyers. The subdivider shall provide each purchaser with a
copy of all submittals (in their final, acceptable form) required by subsection
(d) above prior to said purchaser executing any purchase agreement or other
contract to purchase a unit in the project, and said developer shall give the
purchaser sufficient time to review said information. Copies of the submittals
shall be made available at all times at the sales office and shall be posted at
various locations, as approved by the city, at the project site. Copies shall
be provided to the homeowners’ association upon its formation.
      4.   Final Information Submitted. No later than six (6) months from the
date the subdivider closes escrow on the first sale of a unit, the subdivider
shall submit the following information to the Community Development Department:
         a.   Name, address and phone number of Homeowners’ Association;
         b.   Actual sale price of units;
         c.   Actual Homeowners’ Association fee;
         d.   Number of prior tenants who purchased units; and
         e.   Number of units purchased with intent to be used as rentals.
   F.   Development Standards. All condominium conversions must conform to the
Porterville Municipal Code in effect at the time of tentative map approval
except as otherwise provided in this Series. The Building Official shall
perform an assessment of building conditions prior to tentative map approval. A
report of deficiencies shall accompany the tentative map staff report and
presented to City Council, as the case may be. A physical inspection of every
unit shall be required prior to final map approval or tentative map approval if
no final map is required.
      1.   Modification of Development Standards. The base district development
standard requirements of Series 200, Base Districts, may be modified by the
City Council based on findings that the quality of life accommodated by the
project will not be compromised and that residents will benefit from other
amenities that are located in close proximity to the project site.
      2.   Warranty for Improvements. The subdivider shall provide to the
Homeowners’ Association and/or purchaser a one (1) year warranty on all
physical improvements required under this section.
      3.   Long Term Reserves. Prior to approval of the final map, or parcel
map if no final map is required, the subdivider shall provide evidence to the
city that a long-term reserve fund for replacement has been established in the
name of the homeowners’ association. Such fund shall equal two (2) times the
estimated monthly homeowner’s assessment for each dwelling unit.
   G.   Tenant Provisions. Notices to tenants shall be provided as required in
Section 66427.1 of the Subdivision Map Act. All written notices to tenants
required by this section shall be deemed satisfied if such notices comply with
the legal requirements for service by mail. In addition, at least three (3)
days before any hearing or action on a proposed tentative map for a conversion,
the Community Development Department shall provide a copy of the staff report
to the subdivider and to each tenant of the property.
      1.   Notice of Intent. A notice of intent to convert shall be delivered
by the Subdivider to each tenant at least sixty (60) days prior to filing of
the tentative map. The form of the notice shall be in the form outlined in
Section 66452.9 of the Subdivision Map Act and approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      2.   Notice of Public Report. Each tenant shall receive ten (10) days’
written notice that an application for a public report will be or has been
submitted to the Department of Real Estate and that such report will be
available on request.
      3.   Notice of Final Map Approval. Each tenant shall receive written
notification within 10 days of approval of a final map for the proposed
conversion.
      4.   Tenant’s Right to Purchase. Any present tenant shall be given notice
of an exclusive right to contract for the purchase of his or her respective
unit upon the same terms and conditions that such unit will be initially
offered to the general public or terms more favorable to the tenant. The right
shall run for a period of not less than ninety (90) days from the date of
issuance of the subdivision public report unless the tenant gives prior written
notice of his or her intention not to exercise the right. Evidence of receipt
by each tenant shall be submitted prior to approval of the final map.
      5.   Vacation of Units. Each tenant not in default under the obligations
of the rental agreement or lease under which they occupy their unit shall be
given one hundred eighty (180) days’ written notice of intention to convert
their unit prior to termination of tenancy. The subdivider shall notify each
tenant immediately prior to the time of final map approval of the anticipated
date required to vacate the unit. Evidence of receipt by each tenant shall be
submitted prior to approval of the final map.
      6.   No Increase in Rents. The rents charged tenants at the time when a
completed tentative map application was accepted by the Community Development
Department shall not be increased for two (2) years from that acceptance time,
or until the unit is sold or the subdivision is denied, withdrawn or reverted
to acreage. The increase in rent on a unit which has been vacated after receipt
of the application by the Community Development Department shall not be subject
to control.
      7.   Notice to New Tenants. At least thirty (30) days prior to the filing
of the tentative map, the subdivider shall give notice of the filing of the map
to each person applying after such date for rental of a unit immediately prior
to acceptance of any rent or deposit. The notice shall be in the form outlined
in Section 66452.8(b) of the Subdivision Map Act and shall advise the
prospective tenant that notice will be provided at least one hundred eighty
(180) days prior to the actual conversion. If the subdivider fails to give
notice in accordance with this section, he or she shall pay to each prospective
tenant who becomes a tenant and who was entitled to such notice and who does
not purchase his or her unit, an amount equal to two (2) times monthly rent for
moving expenses.
   H.   Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions. Project covenants, conditions,
and restrictions (CC&Rs) shall be developed, and shall be reviewed and approved
by the City Attorney and Zoning Administrator prior to approval of the Final or
Parcel Map. In addition to the following provisions, the CC&Rs shall reference
by incorporation the approved Conditions of Approval, and shall be recorded in
conjunction with the Final or Parcel Map.
      1.   Conveyance of Private Open Space. The surface area and appurtenant
air space of Private Open Space areas, including but not limited to the patio,
deck, balcony, solarium, or atrium and any integral portion of that space that
may exceed the minimum area requirements, shall be described and conveyed in
the grant deed as an integral part of the unit.
      2.   Assignment and Use of Required Parking Spaces. Required parking
spaces shall be permanently and irrevocably specifically assigned to particular
units within the project. To the maximum practicable extent, the spaces
assigned to each unit shall be contiguous. In no case shall the private storage
area of one (1) unit overhang or take its access from the required parking
space of another unit. All studio and one (1) bedroom units shall be assigned
one (1) parking space and may rent additional spaces from the Homeowners’
Association. An occupant of a unit with two (2) or more bedrooms may rent one
(1) parking space back to the Homeowners’ Association. All parking spaces,
except those specifically designated for recreational vehicles, shall be used
solely for the purpose of parking motor vehicles as defined by the California
Vehicle Code, and shall not be used for trailers, unmounted campers, boats, or
similar recreational vehicles.
      3.   Right of Public Entry to Common Area. Officers, agents, and
employees of the city, the County, the State, and the United States Government,
and any department, bureau, or agency thereof, shall have the right of
immediate access to all Common Areas at all times for the purpose of preserving
the public health, safety, and welfare, except in those instances where a
Common Area is accessible only through a private unit.
      4.   Maintenance of Common Area. Provision shall be made both for annual
assessments of the owners for maintenance and special assessments for capital
improvements. The amount of the regular annual assessment and the procedure for
its change shall be specified. The manner in which special assessments may be
levied for the purpose of defraying, in whole or in part, the cost of any
construction, reconstruction, repair, or replacement of a capital improvement
upon the Common Area shall be specified. Both annual and special assessments
may be collected on a monthly basis. The remedies which the Homeowners’
Association may bring for the nonpayment of assessments shall be specified and
may include penalties for late payment. Assignment of the maintenance
responsibilities of all improvements and utility systems for each unit shall be
specified.
      5.   Utility Easements over Private Streets and Other Areas. Required
public utility easements shall be referenced and any required access routes
necessary to assure that firefighting equipment can reach and operate
efficiently in all areas.
      6.   Access for Construction, Maintenance, or Repairs. Each Owner and the
Homeowners’ Association shall have a right to enter upon any privately owned
unit, where necessary, in connection with construction, maintenance, or repair
for the benefit of the Common Area or the owners of the units in common.
      7.   Right to Terminate Management and Maintenance Contracts. Unless
otherwise prohibited by law, or any local, state, or federal regulation,
reference shall be made to the Homeowners’ Association’s right to terminate the
contract of any person or organization engaged by the developer to perform
management or maintenance duties three (3) months after the Homeowners’
Association assumes control of the project, or at that time renegotiate any
such contracts.
      8.   CC&R Amendments. A statement that the CC&Rs shall not be amended,
modified, or changed without first obtaining the written consent of the city.
   I.   Required Findings. In addition to any other findings that this
Subdivision Ordinance requires, the City Council shall not approve a final map
for conversion unless it finds that each tenant has been given and received
notice in compliance with the requirements of Section 66427.1 of the
Subdivision Map Act. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
408.03: NEW COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CONDOMINIUMS:
   A.   Purpose. The ownership of commercial and industrial condominiums is
distinguished by a sharing of responsibility that is not common to most other
types of development. As a result, the purpose of this Series is to establish
criteria for the construction of new commercial and industrial condominiums to
prevent problems inherent in community ownership that might be detrimental to
the health, safety, and welfare of residents of such projects and the community
at large.
   B.   Applicability. The regulations set forth in this Series shall apply to
the construction of new commercial and industrial condominiums.
   If a commercial or industrial condominium is proposed in combination with a
residential condominium, the requirements of this section and Section
408.01, New Residential Condominiums, shall be read together, with the relevant
requirements applying to the portions of the project.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit and Maps Required. A conditional use permit and
tentative map approved by the City Council is required for all commercial and
industrial condominium applications.
   D.   Application and Fees. The applicant of a proposed commercial or
industrial condominium project shall submit the required number of copies of
the Conditional Use Permit application and tentative maps to the Zoning
Administrator, together with the requested filing fee. In addition to the
required permit and map submittals, the applicant shall submit:
      1.   Development Plan. A development plan of the project including
location and sizes of structures, exterior elevations, parking layout, and
access areas;
      2.   Landscaping Plan. A preliminary landscaping plan of the project
indicating the types and sizes of landscaping materials and permanent
irrigation facilities;
      3.   Reserve Fund Study. A reserve study showing the amount which must be
set aside as long-term reserves for capital and maintenance replacement.
      4.   Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions. The proposed covenants,
conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs); and
      5.   Additional Information. Any other information the Zoning
Administrator find necessary to evaluate the project.
   E.   Development Standards. In addition to the development standards
contained in the applicable zoning district that permit commercial and
industrial condominiums, the following development standards shall apply:
      1.   Sound Transmission.
         a.   Shock Mounting of Mechanical Equipment. All permanent mechanical
equipment, such as motors, compressors, pumps, and compactors, which is
determined by the Building Official to be a source of structural vibration or
structure-borne noise shall be shock mounted with inertia blocks or bases and/
or vibration isolators in a manner approved by the Building Official.
         b.   Noise Standards. Common walls and floors between dwelling units
shall comply with the California Building Code provisions governing noise
resistance for newly constructed common wall and floors.
   F.   Trash and Recycling Collection Areas. Trash and recycling collection
areas shall be provided within two hundred fifty (250) feet of the units they
are designed to serve, and shall comply with the City of Porterville
specifications for trash enclosures.
   G.   Utilities. All units shall have separate gas and electric meters and
provisions for individual shut-off of all utility valves, including water.
   H.   Warranty for Improvements. The subdivider shall provide to the
Condominium Association and/or purchaser a one (1) year warranty on all
physical improvements required under this section.
   I.   Long Term Reserves. Prior to approval of the final map, or parcel map
if no final map is required, the subdivider shall provide evidence to the city
that a long-term reserve fund for replacement has been established in the name
of the condominium association. Such fund be based on a reserve study showing
the amount which must be set aside monthly for the reserve account.
   J.   Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions. Project covenants, conditions,
and restrictions (CC&Rs) shall be developed, and shall be reviewed and approved
by the City Attorney and Zoning Administrator prior to approval of the Final or
Parcel Map. In addition to the following provisions, the CC&Rs shall reference
by incorporation the approved Conditions of Approval, and shall be recorded in
conjunction with the Final or Parcel Map.
      1.   Right of Public Entry to Common Area. Officers, agents, and
employees of the city, the County, the State, and the United States Government,
and any department, bureau, or agency thereof, shall have the right of
immediate access to all Common Areas at all times for the purpose of preserving
the public health, safety, and welfare, except in those instances where a
Common Area is accessible only through a private unit.
      2.   Maintenance of Common Area. Provision shall be made both for annual
assessments of the owners for maintenance and special assessments for capital
improvements. The amount of the regular annual assessment and the procedure for
its change shall be specified. The manner in which special assessments may be
levied for the purpose of defraying, in whole or in part, the cost of any
construction, reconstruction, repair, or replacement of a capital improvement
upon the Common Area shall be specified. Both annual and special assessments
may be collected on a monthly basis. The remedies which the Condominium
Association may bring for the nonpayment of assessments shall be specified and
may include penalties for late payment. Assignment of the maintenance
responsibilities of all improvements and utility systems for each unit shall be
specified.
      3.   Utility Easements over Private Streets and Other Areas. Required
public utility easements shall be referenced and any required access routes
necessary to assure that firefighting equipment can reach and operate
efficiently in all areas.
      4.   Access for Construction, Maintenance, or Repairs. Each Owner and the
Condominium Association shall have the right to enter upon any privately owned
unit, where necessary, in connection with construction, maintenance, or repair
for the benefit of the Common Area or the owners of the units in common.
      5.   Right to Terminate Management and Maintenance Contracts. Unless
otherwise prohibited by law, or any local, state, or federal regulation,
reference shall be made to the Condominium Association’s right to terminate the
contract of any person or organization engaged by the developer to perform
management or maintenance duties three (3) months after the Condominium
Association assumes control of the project, or at that time renegotiate any
such contracts.
      6.   CC&R Amendments. A statement that the CC&Rs shall not be amended,
modified, or changed without first obtaining the written consent of the city.
(Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
408.04: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS:
   A.   Purpose. The ownership of commercial and industrial condominiums is
distinguished by a sharing of responsibility that is not common to most other
types of development. As a result, the purpose of this section is to establish
criteria for the conversion of existing buildings to commercial or industrial
condominiums to prevent problems inherent in community ownership that might be
detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of residents of such projects
and the community at large.
   B.   Applicability. The regulations set forth in this section shall apply to
the conversion of existing buildings into commercial or industrial
condominiums.
   If a commercial or industrial condominium conversion is proposed in
combination with a residential condominium, the requirements of this section
and Section 408.03, New Commercial and Industrial Condominiums, shall be read
together, with the relevant requirements applying to the portions of the
project.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit and Maps Required. A conditional use permit and
tentative map approved by the City Council is required for all commercial and
industrial condominium conversion applications.
   D.   Application and Fees. The applicant of a proposed commercial or
industrial condominium conversion project shall submit the required number of
copies of the Conditional Use Permit application and tentative maps to the
Zoning Administrator, together with the requested filing fee. In addition to
the required permit and map submittals, the applicant shall submit:
      1.   Physical Elements Report. A report prepared by a registered engineer
or architect or licensed qualified contractor describing the physical elements
of all structures and facilities. The report shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
         a.   Structural Condition of Elements. A report detailing the
structural condition of all elements of the property, including foundations,
electrical, plumbing, utilities, walls, roofs, ceilings, windows, recreational
facilities, sound transmission of each building, mechanical equipment, parking
facilities and appliances. The report shall state, to the best knowledge or
estimate of the applicant, when such element was built; the condition of each
element; when said element was replaced; the approximate date upon which said
element will require replacement; the cost of replacing said element; and any
variation of the physical condition of said element from the current zoning and
from the California Building Code in effect on the date that the last building
permit was issued for the subject structure. The report shall identify any
defective or unsafe elements and set forth the proposed corrective measures to
be employed.
         b.   Pest Control. A report from a licensed structural pest control
operator, on each structure and each unit within the structure.
         c.   Soil Conditions. A report on soil and geological conditions
regarding soil deposits, faults, and groundwater in the vicinity of the project
and a statement regarding any known evidence of soils problems relating to the
structures. Reference shall be made to any previous soils reports for the site
and a copy submitted with said report.
         d.   Repairs and Improvements. A statement of repairs and improvements
to be made by the subdivider necessary to refurbish and restore the project to
achieve a high degree of appearance and safety.
      2.   Notice to Tenants. Evidence of written notice provided to each
tenant explaining that the owner intends to apply to the city for a condominium
conversion. The notice to tenants must be sent at least one hundred and eighty
(180) days before the application is submitted to the city, and further notice
must be given to any tenant who occupies the building after the original notice
was sent.
      3.   Plot Plan. A plot plan of the project including location and sizes
of structures, square footage of each building and unit, exterior elevations,
parking layout, and access areas;
      4.   Budget. A proposed budget for maintenance and operation of common
facilities, including needed reserves. The budget shall show estimated monthly
costs to the owner of each unit, projected over a five (5) year period. Such
budget shall be prepared or reviewed and analyzed by a professional management
firm, experienced with management of similar condominium complexes. The
management firm shall submit a statement of professional qualifications.
      5.   Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions. The proposed covenants,
conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs); and
      6.   Additional Information. Any other information the Zoning
Administrator find necessary to evaluate the project.
   E.   Filing and Processing.
      1.   Acceptance of Reports. The final form of the Physical Elements
Report and other documents shall be as approved by the city. The reports in
their acceptable form shall remain on file with the Community Development
Department for review by any interested persons. The report shall be referenced
in the subdivision report to the review authority.
      2.   Copy to Buyers. The subdivider shall provide each purchaser with a
copy of all submittals (in their final, acceptable form) required by Section
408.04(d), Application and Fees, prior to said purchaser executing any purchase
agreement or other contract to purchase a unit in the project, and said
developer shall give the purchaser sufficient time to review said information.
Copies of the submittals shall be made available at all times at the sales
office and shall be posted at various locations, as approved by the city, at
the project site. Copies shall be provided to the condominium association upon
its formation.
   F.   Development Standards. All condominium conversions must conform to the
Porterville Municipal Code in effect at the time of tentative map approval
except as otherwise provided in this section. The Building Official shall
perform an assessment of building conditions prior to tentative map approval. A
report of deficiencies shall accompany the tentative map staff report and
presented to City Council. A physical inspection of every unit shall be
required prior to final map approval or tentative map approval if no final map
is required. In addition to the requirements required in other sections of the
Municipal Code, the conversion shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Sound Transmission.
         a.   Shock Mounting of Mechanical Equipment. All permanent mechanical
equipment, such as motors, compressors, pumps, and compactors, which is
determined by the Building Official to be a source of structural vibration or
structure-borne noise shall be shock mounted with inertia blocks or bases and/
or vibration isolators in a manner approved by the Building Official.
         b.   Noise Standards. The structure shall conform to all interior and
exterior sound transmission standards of the Municipal Code. In such cases
where present standards cannot reasonably be met, the applicant may be required
to notify potential buyers of the noise deficiency currently existing within
these units.
      2.   Trash and Recycling Collection Areas. Trash and recycling collection
areas shall be provided within two hundred fifty (250) feet of the units they
are designed to serve, and shall comply with the City of Porterville
specifications for trash enclosures.
      3.   Utilities. All units shall have separate gas and electric meters and
provisions for individual shut-off of all utility valves, including water.
      4.   Warranty for Improvements. The subdivider shall provide to the
Condominium Association and/or purchaser a one (1) year warranty on all
physical improvements required under this section.
      5.   Long Term Reserves. Prior to approval of the final map, or parcel
map if no final map is required, the subdivider shall provide evidence to the
city that a long-term reserve fund for replacement has been established in the
name of the condominium association. Such fund be based on a reserve study
showing the amount which must be set aside monthly for the reserve account.
   G.   Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions. Project covenants, conditions,
and restrictions (CC&Rs) shall be developed, and shall be reviewed and approved
by the City Attorney and Zoning Administrator prior to approval of the Final or
Parcel Map. In addition to the following provisions, the CC&Rs shall reference
by incorporation the approved Conditions of Approval, and shall be recorded in
conjunction with the Final or Parcel Map.
      1.   Right of Public Entry to Common Area. Officers, agents, and
employees of the city, the County, the State, and the United States Government,
and any department, bureau, or agency thereof, shall have the right of
immediate access to all Common Areas at all times for the purpose of preserving
the public health, safety, and welfare, except in those instances where a
Common Area is accessible only through a private unit.
      2.   Maintenance of Common Area. Provision shall be made both for annual
assessments of the owners for maintenance and special assessments for capital
improvements. The amount of the regular annual assessment and the procedure for
its change shall be specified. The manner in which special assessments may be
levied for the purpose of defraying, in whole or in part, the cost of any
construction, reconstruction, repair, or replacement of a capital improvement
upon the Common Area shall be specified. Both annual and special assessments
may be collected on a monthly basis. The remedies which the Condominium
Association may bring for the nonpayment of assessments shall be specified and
may include penalties for late payment. Assignment of the maintenance
responsibilities of all improvements and utility systems for each unit shall be
specified.
      3.   Utility Easements over Private Streets and Other Areas. Required
public utility easements shall be referenced and any required access routes
necessary to assure that firefighting equipment can reach and operate
efficiently in all areas.
      4.   Access for Construction, Maintenance, or Repairs. Each Owner and the
Condominium Association shall have an easement for entry upon any privately
owned unit, where necessary, in connection with construction, maintenance, or
repair for the benefit of the Common Area or the owners of the units in common.
      5.   Right to Terminate Management and Maintenance Contracts. Unless
otherwise prohibited by law, or any local, state, or federal regulation,
reference shall be made to the Condominium Association’s right to terminate the
contract of any person or organization engaged by the developer to perform
management or maintenance duties three (3) months after the Condominium
Association assumes control of the project, or at that time renegotiate any
such contracts.
      6.   CC&R Amendments. A statement that the CC&Rs shall not be amended,
modified, or changed without first obtaining the written consent of the city.
(Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 409. AMENDMENTS AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
409.01: Correction And Amendment Of Maps
409.02: Enforcement And Judicial Review
409.01: CORRECTION AND AMENDMENT OF MAPS:
   A.   Applicability. The city may approve corrections and amendments to the
following maps:
      1.   Tentative Maps.
         a.   Minor Changes. Minor changes in an approved tentative map may be
approved by the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer upon application by the
subdivider or on the city’s own initiative provided that:
            (1)   No lots, units or building sites or structures are added;
            (2)   Changes are consistent with the intent and spirit of the
original tentative map approval; and
            (3)   There are no resulting violations of the Municipal Code.
         b.   Substantive Changes. Amendments of an approved tentative map for
a subdivision that, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator and City
Engineer are not minor, shall be presented to the City Council for approval
subject to the procedures for processing a tentative map set forth in Chapter
402, Tentative Maps. The Zoning Administrator and City Engineer may approve
substantive changes to an approved tentative parcel map in the same manner set
forth in Chapter 405, Parcel Maps.
         c.   Effect of Amendments. Any approved amendment shall not alter the
expiration date of the tentative map.
      2.   Final Map/Parcel Map. Amendments to a final map or parcel map may be
made in any of the following instances without providing public notice:
         a.   To correct an error in any course or distance shown on the map.
         b.   To show any course or distance that was omitted from the map.
         c.   To correct an error in the description of the real property shown
on the map.
         d.   To indicate monuments set after the death, disability,
replacement or retirement from practice of the engineer or surveyor charged
with responsibilities for setting monuments.
         e.   To show the proper location of any monument that has been changed
in location, or character, or that was originally shown at the wrong location
or incorrectly as to its character.
         f.   To correct any additional information filed or recorded as part
of the final map in accordance with Section 66434.2 of the Subdivision Map Act,
if the correction does not impose any additional burden on the present owners
of the property and does not alter any right, title, or interest in the
property reflected on the recorded map.
         g.   To correct any other type of map error or omission as approved by
the City Engineer that does not affect any property right. Errors and omissions
may include, but not be limited to, lots and numbers, acreage, street names and
identification of adjacent record maps. Error does not include changes in
courses or distances from which an error is not ascertainable from the data
shown on the final map.
         h.   To make modifications when there are changes that make any or all
of the conditions of the map no longer appropriate or necessary and:
            (1)   The modifications do not impose any additional burden on the
owners of the property;
            (2)   The modifications do not alter any right, title, or interest
in the real property reflected on the recorded map; and
            (3)   The city finds that the map as modified does not meet the
findings in Section
400.04, Grounds for Denial.
   B.   Form and Contents. Amendments to final maps or parcel maps may be made
with a certificate of correction or an amending map. The amending map or
certificate of correction shall be prepared by a Registered Civil Engineer or
Licensed Land Surveyor. The form and contents of the amending maps shall
conform to the applicable requirements of this Series. The amending map shall
set forth in detail the corrections made and show the names of the owners of
the property affected by the correction or omission as of the date of the
filing or recording of the original recorded map.
   C.   Review and Approval.
      1.   General Review. The amending map or certificate of correction shall
be submitted to the City Engineer for review and approval, accompanied by the
required fee. The City Engineer shall examine the amending map or certificate
of correction and, if the only changes are those set forth in subsection (a)
above, the City Engineer shall certify to this fact on the amending map or
certificate of correction.
      2.   Certificate of Correction. The City Engineer shall have twenty (20)
days to examine the certificate of correction for compliance with subsections
(a) (b) above, endorse a statement on it of his or her examination and
certification, and present it to the County Recorder for recordation. If the
City Engineer determines that the certificate of correction fails to comply
with this section, the City Engineer shall return the certificate to the
applicant with a written statement of the changes necessary. The City Engineer
shall have ten (10) days after resubmission and approval of the amended
certificate of correction to present it to the County Recorder for recordation.
   D.   Filing with the County Recorder. The amending map or certificate of
correction certified by the City Engineer shall be filed or recorded in the
office of the Tulare County Recorder. Upon such filing or recordation, the
County Recorder shall index the names of the fee owners and the appropriate
subdivision designation shown on the amending map or certificate of correction
in the general index and map index, respectively. The original map shall be
deemed to have been conclusively so corrected and shall impart constructive
notice of all the corrections in the same manner as though upon the original
map. (Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
409.02: ENFORCEMENT AND JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   A.   Purpose. This section establishes procedures the City will use to
enforce the requirements of this Series, including compliance with any
conditions of approval imposed to protect public health, safety, and welfare
and promote development in accordance with the General Plan.
   B.   Prohibition.
      1.   No Sale or Lease Until Final Maps or Parcel Maps Are in Full
Compliance. No person shall sell, lease, or finance any parcel or parcels of
real property, or commence construction of any building for sale, lease or
financing except for model homes, or allow occupancy thereof, for which a final
map or parcel map is required by this Series or the Subdivision Map Act, until
a map, in full compliance with the provisions of this Series and the
Subdivision Map Act, has been filed with the Tulare County Recorder.
      2.   No Conveyances Made by Parcel Number Until Final Maps or Parcel Maps
are Filed. Conveyances of any part of a division of real property for which a
final map or parcel map is required shall not be made by parcel number, letter
or other designation, unless and until the final map or parcel map has been
filed for record with the Tulare County Recorder.
      3.   Exceptions.
         a.   This section does not apply to any parcel or parcels of a
subdivision offered for sale or lease, contracted for sale or lease, or sold or
leased in compliance with or exempt from any law regulating the design and
improvement of subdivisions in effect at the time the subdivision was
established.
         b.   Paragraphs (1) and (2) above shall not prohibit an offer or
contract to sell, lease, or finance real property or to construct improvements
thereon where the sale, lease or financing, or the commencement of
construction, is expressly conditioned upon the approval and filing of a final
or parcel map.
         c.   This section shall not, in any way, modify or affect the
provisions of Section 11018.2 of the Business and Professions Code.
   C.   Remedies.
      1.   Voidable Sale. Any deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell real
property that has been divided, or that has resulted from a division, in
violation of the provisions of this Series or the Subdivision Map Act, is
voidable at the sole option of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to
purchase, any heir, personal representative, or trustee in insolvency or
bankruptcy within one (1) year after the date of discovery of the violation.
The deed of conveyance, sale, or contract to sell is binding upon any successor
in interest of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, other than
those above enumerated, and upon the grantor, vendor or person contracting to
sell, or his or her assignee, heir or devisee.
      2.   Action in Superior Court. Any grantee, or successor in interest, of
real property that has been divided, or that has resulted from a division, in
violation of the provisions of this Series or the Subdivision Map Act may,
within one (1) year of the date of discovery of such violation, bring an action
in the superior court to recover any damages suffered by reason of the division
of property. The action may be brought against the person who divided the
property in violation and against any successors in interest who have actual or
constructive knowledge of such division of property.
      3.   Exceptions.
         a.   Certificate of Compliance. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to the conveyance of any parcel of real property identified in a
certificate of compliance filed in accordance with subsection (e) below, or
identified in a recorded final map, from and after the date of recording.
         b.   Other Provisions of Law. The provisions of this section shall not
limit or affect in any way the rights of a grantee or successor in interest
under any other provision of law.
      4.   Limitation Period. For purposes of this section, the limitation
period for commencing an action, either civil or criminal, against the
subdivider or owner of record at the time of a violation of this Series or the
Subdivision Map Act, shall be tolled for any time period during which there is
no constructive notice of the violation, because the owner of record, at the
time of the violation or at any time thereafter, failed to record a deed,
lease, or financing document with the County Recorder.
   D.   Effect on City Permits and Approvals.
      1.   No Issuance of Permit or Approval. The city shall not issue a permit
or grant any approval necessary to develop any real property that has been
divided, or that has resulted from a division, in violation of the provisions
of this Series or the Subdivision Map Act if it finds that development of the
real property is contrary to the public health or the public safety. The
authority to deny a permit or approval shall apply whether the applicant was
the owner of the real property at the time of the violation or whether the
applicant is the current owner of the real property, with or without actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation at the time of the acquisition of
interest in the real property.
      2.   Imposing Additional Conditions. If the city issues a permit or
grants approval for the development of any real property illegally subdivided,
it may impose only those conditions that would have been applicable to the
division of the property at the time the applicant acquired his or her interest
in the property, and that had been established at such time by this Series. If
the applicant was the owner of record at the time of the initial violation, the
city may impose conditions applicable to a current division of the property. If
a conditional certificate of compliance has been filed for record in accordance
with subsection (e) below, only those conditions stipulated in that certificate
shall be applicable.
      3.   The issuance of a permit or grant of approval for development of
real property, or with respect to improvements that have been completed prior
to the time a permit or grant of approval for development was required by the
Municipal Code in effect at the time of the improvement, or with respect to
improvements that have been completed in reliance upon a permit or grant of
approval for development, shall constitute “real property which has been
approved for development,” for purposes of the Subdivision Map Act, and upon
request by the person owning the real property or a vendee of such persons
pursuant to a contract of sale, the local agency shall issue a certificate of
compliance for the affect real property.
   E.   Certificate of Compliance. Any person owning real property or in
contract of sale of the real property may request the Zoning Administrator to
determine whether such property complies with the provisions of this Series and
the Subdivision Map Act. A recorded final map or parcel map shall constitute a
certificate of compliance with respect to the parcels of real property
described.
      1.   Form and Contents. An application for a determination of compliance
shall be submitted to the Community Development Department together with a plat
map, required fee, and such information the city deems necessary, including,
but not limited to:
         a.   The name or names of owners of the parcel.
         b.   The assessor parcel number or numbers of the parcel.
         c.   The number of parcels for which the certificate of compliance or
conditional certificate of compliance is being issued and recorded.
         d.   The legal description of the parcel or parcels for which the
certificate of compliance or conditional certificate of compliance is being
issued and recorded.
         e.   A notice stating: “This certificate relates only to issues of
compliance or noncompliance with the Subdivision Map Act and local ordinances
enacted pursuant thereto. The parcel described herein may be sold, leased, or
financed without further compliance with the Subdivision Map Act or any local
ordinance enacted pursuant thereto. Development of the parcel may require
issuance of a permit or permits, or other grant or grants of approval.”
         f.   Any conditions to be fulfilled and implemented prior to
subsequent issuance of a permit or other grant of approval for development of
the property, as specified in the conditional certificate of compliance.
      2.   Determination of Compliance. If the Zoning Administrator determines
that the real property complies with this Series and the Subdivision Map Act,
the Zoning Administrator shall forward a certificate of compliance to be filed
for record with the County Recorder. The certificate of compliance shall
identify the real property and shall state that the division of land complies
with this Series and the Subdivision Map Act.
      3.   Determination of Non-Compliance. If the Zoning Administrator
determines that the real property does not comply with the provisions of this
Series or the Subdivision Map Act, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a
conditional certificate of compliance by imposing any conditions that would
have been applicable to the division of land at the time the applicant acquired
their interest and that had been established at that time by this Series and
the Subdivision Map Act.
      4.   Recording the Certificate. Upon making a determination and
establishing the conditions, the Zoning Administrator shall file a conditional
certificate of compliance for record with the County Recorder. The certificate
shall serve as notice to the property owner who has applied for the
certificate, a grantee of the property owner, or any subsequent transferee or
assignee of the property, that the fulfillment and implementation of the
conditions shall be required prior to subsequent issuance of a permit or other
grant of approval for development of the property. Compliance with these
conditions shall not be required until a permit or other grant of approval for
development of the property is issued.
   F.   Notice of Violation.
      1.   Notice of Intention. If the Zoning Administrator has knowledge that
real property has been divided in violation of the provisions of this Series or
the Subdivision Map Act, a notice of intention to record a notice of violation
shall be mailed by certified mail to the current owner of record. The notice
shall describe the property in detail, name the owner, describe the violation,
and state that the owner will be given opportunity to present evidence. The
notice shall specify the date, time and place for a meeting at which the owner
may present evidence to the Zoning Administrator why a notice of violation
should not be recorded.
      2.   Determination by the Zoning Administrator. The meeting shall be held
no sooner than thirty (30) days and no later than sixty (60) days from the date
of mailing. If, within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the notice, the owner
fails to notify the Zoning Administrator objecting to the recording of the
notice of violation, the Zoning Administrator shall record it. If, after the
owner presents evidence, the Zoning Administrator determines that the property
has in fact been illegally divided, the Zoning Administrator shall record the
notice of violation. If, after the owner presents evidence, the Zoning
Administrator determines that there has been no violation, the Zoning
Administrator shall mail a clearance letter to the owner.
      3.   Notice of Violation. The notice of violation, when recorded, shall
be constructive notice of the violation to all successors in interest in the
property.
   G.   Penalties. A violation of this Series by a person who is the subdivider
or an owner of record, at the time of the violation, of property involved in
the violation is punishable by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding
one (1) year or in the state prison, by a fine not exceeding $10,000, or by
both fine and imprisonment. Every other violation of this Series is a
misdemeanor.
   H.   Judicial Action. Any action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside,
void or annul the decision of the Engineering and Project Management Director,
Zoning Administrator, or City Council concerning a subdivision, or of any of
the proceedings, acts or determinations taken, done or made prior to such
decision, or to determine the reasonableness, legality or validity of any
condition attached thereto, shall not be maintained by any person unless the
action or proceeding is commenced and service of summons effected within ninety
(90) days after the date of the decision. Thereafter, all persons are barred
from any such action or proceeding or any defense of invalidity or
unreasonableness of the decision or of the proceedings, acts or determinations.
Any such proceeding shall take precedence over all matters of the calendar of
the court except criminal, probate, eminent domain and forcible entry and
unlawful detainer proceedings.
   I.   Other Legal Action. This Series does not bar any legal, equitable or
summary remedy to which the city or other public agency, or any person, firm or
corporation may otherwise be entitled, and the city or other public agency, or
any person, firm or corporation may file a suit in the superior court of Tulare
County, to restrain or enjoin any attempted or proposed subdivision for sale,
lease or financing in violation of this Series or the Subdivision Map Act.
(Ord. 1870, 6-2-2020)
SERIES 500. OVERLAY DISTRICTS
ARTICLE 500. AIRPORT ENVIRONS (AE) OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
500.01: Purpose
500.02: Applicability
500.03: Use Restrictions
500.04: Development By Right
500.05: Regulations For Noise Exposure
500.06: Regulations For Safety
500.07: Regulations For Airspace Protection
500.08: Supplemental Regulations
500.09: Nonconforming Uses
500.10: Airport Impact Maps
500.01: PURPOSE:
As used herein, "airport" means the Porterville Municipal Airport. The airport
environs (AE) overlay district is established to:
   A.   Protect land uses around the airport from potential hazards of airport
operations;
   B.   Identify a range of uses compatible with airport accident hazard and
airport noise exposure;
   C.   Prohibit the development of incompatible uses that are detrimental to
the general health, safety and welfare and to existing and future airport
operations;
   D.   Require noise attenuated construction within the airport environs; and
   E.   Comply with federal aviation administration (FAA) regulations. (Ord.
1801, 12-3-2013)
500.02: APPLICABILITY:
The standards and regulations of this article apply to all lands within the AE
overlay district mapped on the official zoning map.
Regulations in the AE overlay district modify and supplement the underlying
zoning district regulations. Within the AE overlay district, noise impact
zones, airport safety zones, and airspace protection zones apply. Where a
proposed use, building, or land is impacted by more than one zone, the use,
building and/or land shall conform to the requirements of all applicable zones.
Where zones impose conflicting requirements, the most restrictive of the
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
500.03: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, no use may be made of
land or water within the AE overlay district in such a manner that would:
   A.   Create a "hazard to air navigation" as determined by the FAA;
   B.   Result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport;
   C.   Make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and
others;
   D.   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport;
   E.   Create steam or other emissions that cause thermal plumes or other
forms of unstable air;
   F.   Create electrical interference with navigation signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft;
   G.   Create an increased attraction for wildlife. Of particular concern are
landfills and certain recreational or agricultural uses that attract large
flocks of birds which pose bird strike hazards to aircraft in flight; or
   H.   Otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
500.04: DEVELOPMENT BY RIGHT:
Nothing in this article prohibits:
   A.   Construction of a single-family home, and a second unit, outside of
safety zone 1, on a legal lot of record as of the date of adoption hereof if
such use is permitted in the underlying zoning district.
   B.   Lot line adjustments provided that new developable parcels would not be
created and the resulting intensity or density of the affected property would
not exceed the applicable criteria indicated in section 500.06, table 500.06A
of this article.
   C.   The construction of buildings, the development of facilities, and the
establishment of uses other than residential uses in a permanent building or
facility, within the "aviation" area as defined on the FAA's "approved
conditionally" airport layout plan and which are determined "airport
supporting" by the airport manager or city council. Crew quarters in a
permanent building or facility may be allowed with conditional use permit
approval.
   D.   Uses and facilities in place at the adoption of this chapter within the
"aviation" area as defined on the FAA's "approved conditionally" airport layout
plan. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
500.05: REGULATIONS FOR NOISE EXPOSURE:
   A.   Noise Exposure; Compatibility Criteria: In regard to noise exposure
levels, land uses are classified as being either "normally compatible",
"conditional" or "incompatible" as defined below. All land uses are compatible
at noise exposure less than CNEL fifty five (55) dB.
      1.   Normally compatible:
         a.   Indoor Uses: Either the activities associated with the land use
are inherently noisy or standard construction methods will sufficiently
attenuate exterior noise to an acceptable indoor community noise equivalent
level (CNEL); for land use types that are compatible because of inherent noise
levels, sound attenuation must be provided for associated office, retail, and
other noise sensitive indoor spaces sufficient to reduce exterior noise to an
interior maximum of CNEL fifty (50) dB.
         b.   Outdoor Uses: Except as noted in the table, activities associated
with the land use may be carried out with minimal interference from aircraft
noise.
      2.   Conditional:
         a.   Indoor Uses: Building structure must be capable of attenuating
exterior noise to the indoor CNEL indicated by the number in the table cell.
         b.   Outdoor Uses: Caution shall be exercised with regard to noise
sensitive outdoor uses; these uses are likely to be disrupted by aircraft noise
events; acceptability is dependent upon characteristics of the specific use.
Noise sensitive land uses are ones for which the associated primary activities,
whether indoor or outdoor, are susceptible to disruption by loud noise events.
The most common types of noise sensitive land uses include, but are not limited
to, the following: residential, hospitals, nursing facilities, intermediate
care facilities, educational facilities, libraries, museums, places of worship,
childcare facilities, and certain types of passive recreational parks and open
space.
      3.   Incompatible:
         a.   Indoor Uses: Unacceptable noise interference if windows are open;
at exposures above CNEL sixty five (65) dB, extensive mitigation techniques
required to make the indoor environment acceptable for performance of
activities associated with the land use.
         b.   Outdoor Uses: Severe noise interference makes the outdoor
environment unacceptable for performance of activities associated with the land
use.
   B.   Noise Exposure; Land Use Compatibility: Table 500.05B of this section
describes the compatibility of various land uses within the noise impact zones
as shown in section 500.10, map 500-1, "Airport Impact Map: Future Noise", of
this article. Land uses not specifically listed in table 500.05B of this
section shall be evaluated by the zoning administrator based on the criteria
for the most similar comparable use.
The "conditional criteria" column lists the criteria to be met by uses listed
as "conditional". The note numbers refer to criteria listed at the end of the
table.
When a proposed building lies within multiple CNEL range zones (e.g., partly in
60 to 65 dB and partly in 65 to 70 dB), the higher range zone applies for the
purposes of determining sound attenuation requirements unless less than twenty
five percent (25%) of the building floor area is within that zone. In such
case, the lower range zone may be used.
   TABLE 500.05B:   LAND USE COMPATIBILITY BY NOISE EXPOSURE LEVEL
 
NC = Normally compatible C = Conditional I = Incompatible
         Exterior Noise Exposure
Land Use (CNEL dB)               Conditional
                                 Criteria
                            Exterior Noise Exposure
Land Use                    (CNEL dB)                               Conditional
                            55 - 60 60 - 65 65 - 70 70 - 75 75 - 80 Criteria

Outdoor uses (limited or no                                     
activities in buildings):
  Natural land areas:
 woods, brush lands,       NC      NC      NC      NC      NC      See note 1
  desert
  Water: floodplains,
 wetlands, lakes,          NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  reservoirs
  Agriculture (except
  residences and
 livestock): crops,        NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  orchards, vineyards,
  pasture, rangeland
  Livestock uses: feedlots,
 stockyards, breeding,     C       C       C       C       I       See note 2
  fish hatcheries, horse
  stables
  Outdoor major assembly
  facilities (capacity
 1,000 people): spectator  C       C       C       I       I       See note 3
  oriented outdoor
  stadiums, amphitheaters,
  fairgrounds, zoos
  Group recreation (limited
  spectator stands):
 athletic fields, water    NC      NC      C       I       I       See note 3
  recreation facilities,
  picnic areas
  Small/nongroup
 recreation: golf courses, NC      C       C       I       I       See note 3
  tennis courts, shooting
  ranges
  Local parks: children
 oriented neighborhood     NC      C       I       I       I       See note 3
  parks, playgrounds
  Camping: campgrounds,
 recreational vehicle/     NC      NC      I       I       I        
  motor home parks
 Cemeteries (excluding     NC      NC      NC      NC      I       See note 4
  chapels)
Residential and lodging                                         
uses:
  Single-family
  residential: individual
 dwellings, townhouses,    C, 40   C, 40   I       I       I       See note 5
  mobile homes, bed and
  breakfast inns
 Multi-family residential  C, 40   C, 40   I       I       I       See note 5
  Long term lodging (>30
 nights): extended stay    NC      C, 45   I       I       I        
  hotels, dormitories
  Short term lodging (30
  nights): hotels, motels,
 other transient lodging   NC      C, 45   I       I       I        
  (except conference/
  assembly facilities)
  Congregate care:
  retirement homes,
 assisted living, nursing  NC      C, 45   I       I       I        
  homes, intermediate care
  facilities
Educational and                                                 
institutional uses:
 Family daycare homes (14  NC      I       I       I       I        
  children)
  Children's schools: K -
 12, daycare centers (>14  NC      I       I       I       I        
  children); school
  libraries
  Adult education classroom
 space: adult schools,     NC      C, 45   C, 45   I       I       See note 6
  colleges, universities
 Community libraries       NC      C, 45   I       I       I        
  Indoor major assembly
  facilities (capacity
 1,000 people):            NC      C, 45   C, 45   I       I        
  auditoriums, conference
  centers, concert halls,
  indoor arenas, casinos
  Indoor large assembly
  facilities (capacity 300
 to 999 people): movie     NC      C, 45   C, 45   I       I        
  theaters, places of
  worship, cemetery
  chapels, mortuaries
  Indoor recreation:
 gymnasiums, clubhouses,   NC      NC      C, 50   I       I        
  athletic clubs, dance
  studios
  Inpatient medical:
 hospitals, mental         NC      C, 45   NC      I       I        
  hospitals
  Outpatient medical:
 healthcare centers,       NC      C, 45   C, 45   I       I        
  clinics
 Penal institutions:       NC      C, 45   C, 45   I       I        
  prisons, reformatories
 Public safety facilities: NC      NC      C, 50   C, 50   I        
  police, fire stations
Commercial, office and                                          
service uses:
  Major retail: regional
 shopping centers, "big    NC      NC      C, 50   I       I        
  box" retail
  Local retail: community/
 neighborhood shopping     NC      NC      C, 50   I       I        
  centers, grocery stores
  Eating/drinking
 establishments:           NC      NC      C, 50   I       I        
  restaurants, fast food
  dining, bars
  Limited retail/wholesale:
 furniture, automobiles,   NC      NC      C, 50   I       I        
  heavy equipment,
  lumberyards, nurseries
  Offices: professional
  services, doctors,
  finance, civic; radio,
 television and recording  NC      NC      C, 50   I       I        
  studios, office space
  associated with other
  listed uses
  Personal and
 miscellaneous services:   NC      NC      C, 50   I       I        
  barbers, car washes,
  print shops
  Vehicle fueling: gas
 stations, trucking and    NC      NC      NC      C, 50   C, 50    
  transportation terminals
Industrial, manufacturing,                                      
and storage uses:
  Hazardous materials
 production: oil           NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  refineries, chemical
  plants
 Heavy industrial          NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  Light industrial, high
 intensity: food products  NC      NC      NC      C, 50   C, 50    
  preparation, electronic
  equipment
  Light industrial, low
 intensity: machine shops, NC      NC      NC      C, 50   C, 50    
  wood products, auto
  repair
 Research and development  NC      NC      C, 50   C, 50   I        
  Indoor storage: wholesale
 sales, warehouses, mini/  NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  other indoor storage,
  barns, greenhouses
  Outdoor storage: public
 works yards, automobile   NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  dismantling
 Mining and extraction     NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
Transportation,
communication, and                                              
utilities:
 Airport terminals:        NC      NC      NC      C, 50   I        
  airline, general aviation
 Rail and bus stations     NC      NC      NC      C, 50   I        
  Transportation routes:
 road and rail rights of   NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  way, bus stops
 Auto parking: surface     NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  lots, structures
  Communications
 facilities: emergency     NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  communications, broadcast
  and cell towers
 Power plants              NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
 Electrical substations    NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
 Wastewater facilities:    NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  treatment, disposal
  Solid waste disposal
 facilities: landfill,     NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  incineration
  Solid waste transfer
 facilities, recycle       NC      NC      NC      NC      NC       
  centers
 
Notes:
   Conditional Criteria:
   1.    Compatible at levels indicated, but noise disruption of natural quiet
will occur.
   2.    Exercise caution with uses involving noise sensitive animals.
   3.    Exercise caution if clear audibility by users is essential.
   4.    Compatible at levels indicated, but noise disruption of outdoor
activities will occur.
   5.    Only on existing residential parcels; no subdivisions are allowed.
   6.    Applies only to classrooms; offices, laboratory facilities,
gymnasiums, outdoor athletic facilities, and other uses to be evaluated as
indicated for those land use categories.
   C.   Single Event Noise Levels: Single event noise levels shall be
considered when evaluating the compatibility of highly noise sensitive land
uses such as residences, schools, libraries, and outdoor theaters.
Susceptibility to speech interference and sleep disturbance are among the
factors that make certain land uses noise sensitive. Single event noise levels
are especially important in areas that are regularly overflown by aircraft, but
that do not produce significant CNEL contours (helicopter overflight areas are
a particular example). Flight patterns for Porterville Municipal Airport shall
be considered in the review process. Acoustical studies or on site noise
measurements may be required to assist in determining the compatibility of
sensitive uses.
   D.   Maximum Acceptable Interior Noise Levels: Land uses for which interior
activities may be easily disrupted by noise shall comply with the following
maximum, aircraft related, interior noise level criteria:
      1.   CNEL forty (40) dB in any habitable room of single- or multi- family
residences.
      2.   CNEL forty five (45) dB for: hotels, motels, and other lodging;
hospitals and nursing homes; places of worship, meeting halls, theaters, and
mortuaries; and schools, libraries, and museums.
      3.   CNEL fifty (50) dB in offices and office areas of industrial
facilities.
   E.   Residential Interior Noise Level Reduction: New dwellings exposed to
CNEL above sixty (60) dB shall incorporate the following noise reduction design
measures unless alternative designs that achieve and maintain an interior noise
level of CNEL forty (40) dB are incorporated and verified by a board certified
acoustical engineer:
      1.   All facades must be constructed with substantial weight and
insulation;
      2.   Sound rated windows providing noise reduction performance similar to
that of the facade must be included for habitable rooms;
      3.   Sound rated doors or storm doors providing noise reduction
performance similar to that of the facade must be included for all exterior
entries;
      4.   Acoustic baffling of vents is required for chimneys, fans, and gable
ends;
      5.   Installation of a mechanical ventilation system affording comfort
under closed window conditions; and
      6.   Double stud construction, double doors, and heavy roofs with
ceilings of two (2) layers of gypsum board on resilient channels. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
500.06: REGULATIONS FOR SAFETY:
   A.   Development Standards: Table 500.06A of this section describes the
development standards for all development within the airport safety zones as
shown in section
500.10, map 500-2, "Airport Impact Map: Safety", of this article. Additional
standards follow the table.
      TABLE 500.06A:   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS -AIRPORT SAFETY ZONES
Standard Safety Zones
         1 2 3 4 5 6
Standard                                           Safety Zones
                                                   1   2   3   4   5   6
Maximum lot coverage (% of site)                   0   40  60  70  70  100
Nonresidential development:                                        
 Maximum sitewide average intensity (people/acre) 10  60  100 160 160 n/a
 Maximum single acre intensity (people/acre)      20  120 250 400 400 n/a
Residential development:                                           
 Maximum sitewide average density (units/acre)    n/a n/a 4   4   n/a n/a
 Maximum single acre density (units/acre)         n/a n/a 12  12  n/a n/a
 
      1.   Intensity Calculation:
         a.   Nonresidential Development: Usage intensity calculations shall
include all people (e.g., employees, customers/visitors) who may be on the
property at any single point in time, whether indoors or outdoors. The city may
make exceptions for rare special events (e.g., an airshow at the airport) for
which a facility is not designed and normally not used and for which extra
safety precautions can be taken as appropriate.
         b.   Residential Development:
            (1)   The maximum allowable residential densities are intended to
include density bonuses and any other bonuses or allowances that the city may
provide for affordable housing developed in accordance with the provisions of
state and/or local law or regulation. The overall density of a development
project, including any bonuses or allowances, must comply with the allowable
density criteria in table 500.06A of this section.
            (2)   Second units are excluded from density calculations.
         c.   Mixed Use Development:
            (1)   Where the residential and nonresidential uses are proposed to
be situated on separate parts of the project site, the project shall be
evaluated as separate developments. The residential density shall be calculated
with respect to the area(s) to be devoted to residential development and the
nonresidential intensity calculated with respect to the area(s) proposed for
nonresidential uses.
            (2)   Development in which residential uses are proposed to be
located in conjunction with nonresidential uses in the same or nearby buildings
on the same site must meet both residential density and nonresidential
intensity criteria. The number of dwelling units shall not exceed the density
limits indicated in table 500.06A of this section. Additionally, the normal
occupancy of the residential portion shall be added to that of the
nonresidential portion and the total occupancy shall be evaluated with respect
to the nonresidential usage intensity criteria cited in table 500.06A of this
section.
   B.   Airport Safety; Compatibility Criteria: In regard to airport safety,
land uses are classified as being either "normally compatible", "conditional"
or "incompatible" as defined below.
      1.   Normally compatible: Normal examples of the use are compatible under
the presumption that usage intensity and maximum lot coverage criteria in table
500.06A of this section will be met. Atypical examples may require review to
ensure compliance with usage intensity and lot coverage criteria. Noise,
airspace protection, and/or overflight limitations may apply.
      2.   Conditional: Use is compatible if indicated floor area ratio (FAR),
lot coverage, and other listed conditions are met.
      3.   Incompatible: Use shall not be permitted under any circumstances.
   C.   Airport Safety; Land Use Compatibility:
Table 500.06C of this section describes the compatibility of various land uses
within the airport safety zones as shown in section
500.10, map 500-2, "Airport Impact Map: Safety", of this article. Land uses are
classified as being either "normally compatible", "conditional" or
"incompatible".
Land uses not specifically listed in
table 500.06C of this section shall be evaluated by the zoning administrator
based on the criteria for the most similar comparable use.
Numbers in table cells refer to the maximum allowable FAR.
Notes in table cells refer to criteria to be met by uses listed as
"conditional". The note numbers refer to criteria listed at the end of the
table.
   TABLE 500.06C:   LAND USE COMPATIBILITY - AIRPORT SAFETY ZONES
 
NC = Normally compatible C = Conditional I = Incompatible
Land Use Safety Zones
         1 2 3 4 5 6
Land Use                  Safety Zones
                          1  2          3            4            5          6
Outdoor uses (limited or
no activities in                                                         
buildings):
  Natural land areas:
 woods, brush lands,     C1 NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  desert
  Water: floodplains,
 wetlands, lakes,        C1 NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  reservoirs
  Agriculture (except
  residences and
 livestock): crops,      C2 NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  orchards, vineyards,
  pasture, rangeland
  Livestock uses:
  feedlots, stockyards,
 breeding, fish          I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  hatcheries, horse
  stables
  Outdoor major assembly
  facilities (capacity
  1,000 people):
 spectator oriented      I  I          I            I            I          C3
  outdoor stadiums,
  amphitheaters,
  fairgrounds, zoos
  Group recreation
  (limited spectator
 stands): athletic       I  I          C3           NC           C3,4       NC
  fields, water
  recreation facilities,
  picnic areas
  Small/nongroup
 recreation: golf        I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  courses, tennis courts,
  shooting ranges
  Local parks: children
 oriented neighborhood   I  NC         C3           NC           C3,4       NC
  parks, playgrounds
  Camping: campgrounds,
 recreational vehicle/   I  I          C5           C5           C4,5       NC
  motor home parks
 Cemeteries (except      I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  chapels)
Residential and lodging                                                  
uses:
  Single-family
  residential: individual
 dwellings, townhouses,  I  C6         C            C            C6         NC
  mobile homes, bed and
  breakfast inns
 Multi-family            I  I          I            I            I          NC
  residential
  Long term lodging (>30
 nights): extended stay  I  I          I            I            I          NC
  hotels, dormitories
  Short term lodging (30
  nights): hotels,
 motels, other transient I  I          C, 0.46      C, 0.74      I          NC
  lodging (except
  conference/assembly
  facilities)
  Congregate care:
  retirement homes,
 assisted living,        I  I          I            I            I          NC
  nursing homes,
  intermediate care
  facilities
Educational and                                                          
institutional uses:
 Family daycare homes    I  I          I            I            I          NC
  (14 children)
  Children's schools: K -
 12, daycare centers     I  I          C7           C7           I          NC
  (>14 children); school
  libraries
  Adult education
 classroom space: adult  I  I          C, 0.09 8    C, 0.15 8    I          NC
  schools, colleges,
  universities
 Community libraries     I  I          C, 0.23      C, 0.37      I          NC
  Indoor major assembly
  facilities (capacity
 1,000 people):          I  I          I            I            I          C3
  auditoriums, conference
  centers, concert halls,
  indoor arenas, casinos
  Indoor large assembly
  facilities (capacity
 300 to 999 people):     I  I          C, 0.03      C, 0.05      I          NC
  movie theaters, places
  of worship, cemetery
  chapels, mortuaries
  Indoor recreation:
 gymnasiums, clubhouses, I  I          C, 0.14      C, 0.22      I          NC
  athletic clubs, dance
  studios
  Inpatient medical:
 hospitals, mental       I  I          C7           C7           I          NC
  hospitals
  Outpatient medical:
 healthcare centers,     I  I          C, 0.55      C, 0.88      I          NC
  clinics
 Penal institutions:     I  I          I            I            I          NC
  prisons, reformatories
  Public safety
 facilities: police,     I  I          C3           C            C3,4       NC
  fire stations
Commercial, office, and                                                  
service uses:
  Major retail: regional
 shopping centers, "big  I  I          C, 0.25 9,10 C, 0.40 9,10 I          NC
  box" retail
  Local retail:
 community/neighborhood  I  I          C, 0.39 10   C, 0.62 10   I          NC
  shopping centers,
  grocery stores
  Eating/drinking
 establishments:         I  I          C, 0.14      C, 0.22      C, 0.22 4  NC
  restaurants, fast food
  dining, bars
  Limited retail/
  wholesale: furniture,
 automobiles, heavy      I  C, 0.34 11 NC           NC           C, 0.92 11 NC
  equipment, lumberyards,
  nurseries
  Offices: professional
  services, doctors,
  finance, civic; radio,
 television and          I  C, 0.30    C, 0.49      C, 0.79      C, 0.79 4  NC
  recording studios,
  office space associated
  with other listed uses
  Personal and
 miscellaneous services: I  C, 0.28    NC           NC           NC         NC
  barbers, car washes,
  print shops
  Vehicle fueling: gas
 stations, trucking and  I  I          NC           NC           C12        NC
  transportation
  terminals
Industrial,
manufacturing, and                                                       
storage uses:
  Hazardous materials
 production: oil         I  I          I            I            I          C3
  refineries, chemical
  plants
 Heavy industrial        I  I          C13          C13          I          NC
  Light industrial, high
 intensity: food         I  I          C, 0.46 13   C, 0.74 13   I          NC
  products preparation,
  electronic equipment
  Light industrial, low
 intensity: machine      I  C, 0.41 13 NC           NC           C, 1.10 13 NC
  shops, wood products,
  auto repair
 Research and            I  I          C, 0.69 13   C, 1.10 13   I          NC
  development
  Indoor storage:
  wholesale sales,
 warehouses, mini/other  I  C, 1.38    NC           NC           NC         NC
  indoor storage, barns,
  greenhouses
  Outdoor storage: public
 works yards, automobile I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  dismantling
 Mining and extraction   I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
Transportation,
communication, and                                                       
utilities:
  Airport terminals:
 airline, general        I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  aviation
 Rail and bus stations   I  C3         NC           NC           C3         NC
  Transportation routes:
 road and rail rights of C2 NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  way, bus stops
 Auto parking: surface   C2 NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  lots, structures
  Communications
  facilities: emergency
 communications,         I  C3         C3           C3           C3         C3
  broadcast and cell
  towers
 Power plants            I  I          C14          C14          I          NC
 Electrical substations  I  C3         NC           NC           C3         NC
 Wastewater facilities:  I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  treatment, disposal
  Solid waste disposal
 facilities: landfill,   I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  incineration
  Solid waste transfer
 facilities, recycle     I  NC         NC           NC           NC         NC
  centers
 
Notes:
   Conditional Criteria:
   1.   Objects above runway elevation not allowed in object free area (OFA),
the dimensions of which are established by FAA airport design standards for the
runway.
   2.   Not allowed in OFA.
   3.   Allowed only if site outside safety zone would not serve intended
function.
   4.   Not allowed within 1,000 feet of runway centerline.
   5.   Allowed only if intensity criteria listed in table 500.06A of this
section are met.
   6.   Accessory buildings only. Dwelling must be located outside of safety
zone.
   7.   No new sites or land acquisition. Building replacement and expansion
allowed for existing facilities. School expansion is limited to 50 students.
   8.   Also subject to limitations of individual components of campus
facilities (e.g., assembly facilities, offices, gymnasiums).
   9.   Building capacity limited to 1,000 people.
   10.   Eating and drinking establishments that make up 10 percent or more of
the total floor area shall be evaluated separately.
   11.   Design site to locate buildings outside of safety zone whenever
possible. Parking areas may be located within safety zone.
   12.   No fuel tanks within 1,000 feet of runway centerline.
   13.   Avoid bulk storage of hazardous materials. Permitting agencies to
evaluate possible need for special measures to minimize hazards if struck by
aircraft.
   14.   Peaker plants only. Primary plants not allowed.
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
500.07: REGULATIONS FOR AIRSPACE PROTECTION:
   A.   Height Limitations: The criteria for determining the acceptability of a
project with respect to height shall be based upon the standards set forth in
federal aviation regulations (FAR) part 77, subpart C, objects affecting
navigable airspace. Additionally, where an FAA aeronautical study of a proposed
object is required in accordance with FAR part 77, subpart C, the results of
that study shall be taken into account by the city.
      1.   Maximum Height:
         a.   Except as provided below, no object, including a mobile or
temporary object such as construction crane, shall have a height that would
result in penetration of any obstruction surface depicted for Porterville
Municipal Airport in section 500.10, map 500-4, "Airport Impact Map: Airspace
Protection", of this article.
         b.   Within the primary surface and beneath the approach or
transitional surfaces, objects shall be limited in height consistent with the
airspace protection surfaces defined by FAR part 77.
      2.   Exception: Outside the primary surface and the approach or
transitional surfaces, no object shall be limited to a height of less than
thirty five feet (35') above the ground even if the object would penetrate an
FAR part 77 surface and thus constitute an obstruction.
   B.   FAA Notification: Any person proposing construction or alteration
within the AE overlay district shall submit notification of the proposal to the
FAA if such construction or alteration exceeds any of the following height
standards:
      1.   Two hundred feet (200') above ground level.
      2.   The plane of an imaginary surface extending outward and upward at a
slope of one hundred to one (100:1) for a distance of twenty thousand feet
(20,000') from the nearest point of any runway. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
500.08: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Avigation Easement Dedication: An avigation easement shall be dedicated
to the city of Porterville for the following development:
      1.   Any residential development within the CNEL fifty five (55) dB
contour shown in section
500.10, map 500-1, "Airport Impact Map: Future Noise", of this article.
      2.   Any residential or nonresidential development within safety zones 1
through 5 as shown in section
500.10, map 500-2, "Airport Impact Map: Safety", of this article.
      3.   Any residential or nonresidential development within an area beneath
a transitional surface or the inner ten thousand feet (10,000') of an approach
surface.
   B.   Overflight Notification: If no avigation easement is otherwise
provided, residential development within the primary or secondary overflight
area indicated in section
500.10, map 500-3, "Airport Impact Map: Overflight", of this article, an
overflight notification consistent with the following standards shall be
recorded:
      1.   The notification shall contain the following language dictated by
state law with regard to real estate transfer disclosure:
NOTICE OF AIRPORT IN VICINITY: This property is presently located in the
vicinity of an airport, within what is known as an airport influence area. For
that reason, the property may be subject to some of the annoyances or
inconveniences associated with proximity to airport operations (for example:
noise, vibration, or odors). Individual sensitivities to those annoyances can
vary from person to person. You may wish to consider what airport annoyances,
if any, are associated with the property before you complete your purchase and
determine whether they are acceptable to you.
      2.   The notification shall be made evident to prospective purchasers of
the property and shall appear on the property deed. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
500.09: NONCONFORMING USES:
Lawful nonconforming structures may be continued and maintained without being
required to conform to the requirements of this article in accordance with the
following:
   A.   Residential Single-Family: A nonconforming single-family dwelling may
be maintained, remodeled, reconstructed, or expanded in size as long as there
is no increase in the number of dwelling units. Secondary dwelling units may be
constructed. The lot line of an existing single-family residential parcel may
be adjusted as long as it does not result in an increase of allowable density.
   B.   Residential Multi-Family: Nonconforming multi-family residential
dwellings may be maintained, remodeled, or reconstructed. The size of
individual dwelling units may be increased, but additional dwelling units may
not be added. Sound attenuation and avigation easement dedication requirements
established by this article shall apply.
   C.   Nonresidential: Nonconforming nonresidential facilities may be
maintained, altered, or reconstructed. However, any such work must not result
in expansion of either the portion of the site devoted to the nonconforming use
or the floor area of the buildings and must not result in an increase in the
usage intensity (the number of people per acre) above the levels existing at
the time of adoption of this chapter. Sound attenuation and avigation easement
dedication requirements established by this article shall apply. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
500.10: AIRPORT IMPACT MAPS:
!!!
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3704.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3706.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3708.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3710.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 501. HILLSIDE ZONE (HZ) OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
501.01: Purpose And Intent
501.02: Applicability
501.03: Required Plans And Materials
501.04: Land Use Regulations
501.05: Ridgelines
501.06: Grading
501.07: Site Drainage Improvements
501.08: Street Requirements And Design
501.09: Open Space
501.10: Landscaping And Irrigation
501.11: Development Standards
501.01: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The hillside zone (HZ) overlay district is established to achieve the
city's objective to facilitate and permit the orderly development of property
within the hillside areas through a set of hillside development standards aimed
at protecting the public health, safety and welfare; protecting and preserving
natural and biological resources for the long term benefit of the Porterville
community and the broader community; recognizing the inherent value in the
properties subject to this article; allowing size, type, location, density, and
intensity of development based on available infrastructure, the geographic
steepness of terrain, presence of unique geographic conditions and constraints,
and presence of environmentally sensitive areas; and optimizing the use of
sensitive site design, grading, landscape architecture, and architecture, all
to achieve the city's objectives.
   B.   The HZ overlay district and the regulations contained in this article
are intended to provide development that is consistent with and serves to
implement the goals and policies of the general plan for properties classified
in the HZ overlay district. Specific regulations and standards address the
following city objectives:
      1.   To uphold the value of the community and the subject property by
protecting ridgelines, prominent landforms, rock outcroppings, open space
areas, hydrologic features, wildlife communities, unique and sensitive habitat
and vegetation communities, and other natural, biological, and scenic
resources.
      2.   Enable property owners to select suitable development sites on their
real property for new hillside development projects founded on science based
conclusions, including the use of slope density calculations and maximum land
holding capacity, to determine the appropriate density and intensity of a
structure that can be built on a particular hillside slope.
      3.   To provide for hillside development that maintains the integrity of
the hillsides' natural characteristics and features.
   FIGURE 501.01B1:   HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3773.png]
 
      4.   To ensure the ridgelines that frame the city of Porterville will be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
   FIGURE 501.01B2:   RIDGELINES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3775.png]
 
      5.   To facilitate the protection of existing views from vantage points
within public open spaces, rights of way, public parks, and private development
from encroachment by new development.
      6.   To minimize grading and cut and fill operations where possible to
retain the natural character of the hillside areas.
      7.   Minimize water runoff and soil erosion incurred in adjusting the
terrain to meet on site and off site development needs.
      8.   To encourage all the characteristics and qualities of a cohesive
neighborhood that promotes a "sense of place" within a hillside setting.
      9.   To promote and encourage a variety of high quality, alternative
architectural and development designs and concepts appropriate for hillside
areas.
      10.   To preserve the public health, safety, and welfare and specifically
protect the public and property from hazards such as seismic, geologic,
hydrologic and fire, including damage to property from landslides, erosion,
earth creep, and stormwater runoff, and other hazards in and near hillsides.
      11.   To reflect the city's design goals and policies expressed in the
general plan.
      12.   To require that infrastructure such as, but not limited to, roads,
utilities, drainage, and sound attenuation barriers serve both a utilitarian
and aesthetic purpose.
      13.   To ensure that open space is an integral part of subdivision
design.
   FIGURE 501.01B3:   LANDSCAPING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3777.png]
 
      14.   To provide areas where residents can enjoy active and passive
recreation.
   FIGURE 501.01B4:   OPEN SPACE AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3779.png]
 
      15.   To ensure that proper landscape setbacks are provided to separate
residential uses from nonresidential uses and to allow for transitions between
natural open space and development.
   FIGURE 501.01B5:   BIOSWALES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3781.png]
 
      16.   To ensure that the circulation system is a beneficial element in
the hillside development setting and maintains, to the greatest extent
possible, the natural characteristics of a hillside environment.
      17.   To ensure quality development that blends with the hillside
environment, and to create neighborhoods that display a cohesive and harmonious
form and complementary architectural styles.
      18.   To minimize resource consumption through the use of a drought
tolerant native plant palette. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.02: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The HZ overlay district shall be applied to all properties within the
incorporated boundaries of the city of Porterville, as well as those properties
within the city's official sphere of influence, as may be amended from time to
time, that are designated hillside development zone on the Porterville 2030
general plan land use diagram, and that have an average slope equal to or
greater than six percent (6%).
   B.   The regulations of this chapter and requirements or conditions imposed
pursuant to this chapter shall not supersede any other regulations or
requirements adopted or imposed by the Porterville city council, the state of
California, or any federal agency that has jurisdiction by law over uses and
development authorized by this chapter, including the urban wildland interface
code. Where conflict occurs between the provisions of this chapter and any
other city ordinance, chapter, resolution, guideline, or regulation, the more
restrictive provisions shall control, unless otherwise specified. (Ord. 1858,
7-2-2019)
501.03: REQUIRED PLANS AND MATERIALS:
The following information is supplemental to the basic requirements for
submittal of subdivision maps, information and/or other entitlement
applications required for review by the zoning administrator and city council.
The specified data shall be submitted concurrently with all required
application forms and fees, provided that the zoning administrator may waive
submission of items deemed unnecessary. Where appropriate, the following
information may be combined onto submittal exhibits. The submittal of
applications for parcel maps, containing four (4) or fewer lots, shall only
require items in subsections A, B, D and E of this section.
   A.   Topographical Map: A topographical map at a scale specified in
development applications. This map shall identify all existing slope banks,
ridgelines, canyons, natural drainage courses, federally recognized blue line
streams or waters of the United States, rock outcroppings, existing manmade
features, mines, and existing vegetation. The topographic map shall include
areas of protected plant or animal communities identified in the biological
resource survey report described in subsection G2 of this section. Also
depicted shall be known landslides and other existing geologic conditions.
   B.   Conceptual Grading Plan: A conceptual grading plan, which shall include
the following items in addition to those required by the municipal code:
      1.   Top of walls.
      2.   Top of curbs.
      3.   High point and low point elevations.
      4.   Pad and/or finished floor elevations.
      5.   Areas of cut and fill, calculated as a percentage of the total site
area.
      6.   Contours for existing and proposed topography. Existing contours
shall be depicted with a dashed line with every fifth contour darker, and
proposed contours shall be depicted as above except with a solid line. Contours
shall be shown at minimum intervals of five feet (5') of change in elevation,
with two foot (2') contours shown in the flatter areas below ten percent (10%).
      7.   Lot and pad dimensions, along with a statistical summary of lot and
pad sizes.
      8.   Design of roads and driveways, including average grades indicated,
as well as areas of the steepest grade.
      9.   Lot drainage, including the gradient of the drainage and flow
velocities.
   C.   Cut And Fill Map: A cut and fill map identifying proposed fill areas
colored blue and cut areas colored red, with depths of such areas clearly shown
in ten foot (10') major contour lines. Quantities of each cut and fill area
shall also be clearly specified on the map.
   D.   Slope Analysis Map:
      1.   A detailed slope analysis map to use in determining the average
slope and the amount and location of land as it exists in its natural state.
For the slope analysis map, the applicant shall use a base topographical map of
the subject site, prepared and signed by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor. The map shall have a scale of not less than one inch to
one hundred feet (1":100') and a two foot (2') contour interval. This interval
may be adjusted with the approval of the zoning administrator and city engineer
on the basis of good engineering principles. This base topographical map shall
include all adjoining properties to the extent necessary to determine impacts
to neighboring properties to portray the site's context. The slope map shall
delineate slope bands, with monochromatic but distinct colors for the following
slope ranges:
         a.   Up to five and nine-tenths percent (5.9%).
         b.   Six percent (6%) to ten and nine-tenths percent (10.9%).
         c.   Eleven percent (11%) to twenty and nine-tenths percent (20.9%).
         d.   Twenty one percent (21%) to twenty five and nine-tenths percent
(25.9%).
         e.   Twenty six percent (26%) to thirty and nine-tenths percent
(30.9%).
         f.   Thirty one percent (31%) to fifty percent (50%).
         g.   Greater than fifty percent (50%).
      2.   Also included shall be a tabulation of the land/area by slope
percentage specified in acres. Such slope map shall be prepared using CAD based
or GIS based software specifically designed for such purpose and approved for
such use by the city engineer.
      3.   A calculation of the average slope of the entire parcel pursuant to
section 103.07, "Determining Average Slope", of this chapter.
      4.   Calculations of average slope percent shall be based upon accurate
topographic surveys using a two foot (2') contour interval and a horizontal map
scale of one inch to one hundred feet (1":100') or larger.
      5.   The slope analysis shall be stamped and signed by a registered or
licensed professional to provide such analysis and indicating the datum,
source, and scale of topographic data used in the slope analysis.
   E.   Future House Plotting Map: In the event that no grading is proposed, a
statement to that effect shall be filed with a plan that shows possible future
house plotting and driveway design for each parcel proposed. This future house
plotting map shall be prepared on a topographic map at the scale required in
the development application. Access drive and street elevations must be
provided.
   F.   Site Sections: Sufficient number of site sections to clearly illustrate
the extent of the proposed grading. The sections shall:
      1.   All be drawn at the same scale and indexed, or keyed, to the
existing topography, grading plan, and project site map. Both vertical and
horizontal scales shall be indicated and not overly exaggerated. The site
section shall extend at least one hundred fifty feet (150') outside the project
site boundary to clearly show impact on adjacent property.
      2.   The site sections shall be stamped and signed by a licensed
professional registered in the state of California indicating the datum,
source, and scale of topographic data used in the slope profiles.
      3.   The site sections shall be stamped and signed by a registered civil
engineer indicating the datum, source, and scale of topographic data used in
the slope profiles, and attesting to the fact that the slope profiles have been
accurately calculated and identified.
   G.   Technical Reports: The following technical reports:
      1.   A geologic and soils report prepared by a licensed professional, in
sufficient detail to substantiate and support the design concepts presented in
the application as submitted.
      2.   A biological resource survey report identifying all existing plant
communities, with sensitive or protected species or communities clearly
delineated, as well as known habitat area for protected animal species,
including the location of sensitive biological resources. All sensitive species
surveys shall be conducted in accordance with any applicable protocols
established by the U.S. fish and wildlife service and the California department
of fish and game. The applicant shall engage in a third party agreement with
the city and the selected biological consultant and provide the funding for
purposes of payment to the consultant. The report shall be signed by the person
preparing such report, with the signature intended to verify that the mandatory
protocols were conformed to in the analysis as per the city's local guidelines
for implementing the California environmental quality act (CEQA). The
submission of the biological survey may be deferred until after initial project
submittal as approved by the environmental coordinator.
      3.   An archaeological survey subject to the same terms as provided in
subsection G2 of this section.
   H.   Architectural And Landscaping Design Guidelines Manual: A comprehensive
architectural and landscaping design guideline manual shall be part of the
development application. Such manual shall be required for all hillside
development permit applications except those involving the construction of one
single-family dwelling unit on an existing lot, in which case subsection I of
this section shall apply. Such manual shall be approved as part of the
applicable hillside development permit and shall be binding upon all subsequent
development authorized by that applicable hillside development permit. The
manual shall include the following, but the applicant/landowner may include
additional information at his/her discretion:
      1.   Illustrative, color drawings, photos or similar representations of
the various architectural styles to be used with text and visual descriptions
on the overall architectural theme of the project.
      2.   A neighborhood design diagram depicting the locations of proposed
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, utility easements, developable pad,
property lines, perimeter setbacks, parks, and recreation centers.
      3.   Identification of exterior building materials (structure and trim),
roofing materials, and colors for primary structures.
      4.   Illustrations and descriptions of permitted fencing and wall
materials.
      5.   Illustrations and descriptions of permitted/proposed signage and
entry treatments.
      6.   Description and illustrative drawings or similar representations of
how the architecture and building approaches established in the manual
implement the architectural standards set forth in subsection
501.11G, "Architectural Standards; General", of this article.
      7.   Identification of landscaping approaches and plant palettes for all
common open space areas, roadway medians, edge and berm treatments, common
slopes, and private front yard areas.
      8.   Description of how the landscaping approaches and plant palettes
established in the manual implement the landscape standards set forth in
section
501.10, "Landscaping And Irrigation", of this article.
   I.   Single Lot Applications: For applications involving one single-family
dwelling unit residence on an existing lot or a second unit on a single lot,
architectural and landscaping treatment materials shall be provided.
   J.   Additional Analysis: The following items shall also be required as part
of an application, unless waived or conditionally waived by the zoning
administrator or the city council to aid in the analysis of the proposed
project to illustrate existing or proposed conditions or both:
      1.   A topographic model and/or large scale detailed partial model at a
one to one (1:1) vertical to horizontal relationship.
      2.   A line of site or view analysis as described in subsection L of this
section.
      3.   Visual simulation of the postdevelopment condition, including use of
photographic and/or computer generated graphic renderings as described in
subsection L of this section.
   K.   Landscape And Irrigation: Preliminary landscape and irrigation plans
for all common areas showing project compliance with the provisions of this
article and requirements of the city fire chief for fire hazard mitigation and
brush management zones in chapter 12, article III of the municipal code and the
state code regarding wildland interface in state response areas.
   L.   Visual Simulation:
      1.   Photography: The requirement for a visual simulation provides
decision makers with a pictorial representation of the future condition of a
development project as close to reality as possible. The photograph is the
basis of view simulation, and care shall be taken in the camera selection. The
goal is to provide an analysis that, as closely as possible, represents site
views from a variety of locations distant from the project and from surrounding
areas that will have a direct view of the project.
      2.   Control Data: The location of the camera shall be recorded as
accurately as possible at the time the photograph is taken.
      3.   Computer Modeling: Depending on the project site location, the
proposed project may be required to be modeled based on subdivision design,
architectural, and landscape data. Existing terrain, buildings, survey data,
and any field notes shall be included in the modeling effort. The level of
detail included in the computer model will be determined by the intended use of
the simulation.
      4.   Staging: The computer model shall be aligned to the photographs in
the rendering software utilizing the alignment data and the lens and focal
length of the camera used. The model shall be lighted according to the time of
day and year and the views rendered.
      5.   Rendering: The rendering process shall be completed after aligning
the model to the photograph. The subject matter shall be colored and textured
to simulate the proposed project as closely as possible.
      6.   Photocomposition: Any retouching undertaken to make foreground
objects visible shall be done in such a way so as to preserve the original
photograph and the rendered image intact. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.04: LAND USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Uses Requiring A Hillside Development Permit: The following uses
require a hillside development permit:
Any subdivision of land.
Detached garages and other accessory structures containing more than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet in gross floor area.
Lighting of tennis courts, basketball courts, and similar sports courts.
Stables, corrals, and similar facilities for the private noncommercial keeping
and containment of animals.
   B.   Uses Requiring An Administrative Hillside Development Permit: The
following uses of land are permitted after review and approval of an
administrative hillside development permit:
Detached garages and other accessory structures, up to a maximum of one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet in gross floor area.
Landscaped parkways and medians, landscaped slopes, and similar other open
spaces.
Public and private parks.
Riding and hiking trails for pedestrians, equestrians and nonmotorized
vehicles.
Second dwelling units.
Single-family dwelling unit, detached or attached.
Swimming pools, spas, ponds, and associated hardscape and landscape
improvements that involve the construction of any retaining walls over three
feet (3') in height, subject to the issuance of a grading permit and required
building permits.
Tennis courts, basketball courts, and similar sports courts, subject to the
issuance of a grading permit and required building permits.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following are permitted as accessory uses
clearly subordinate to the principal use of the property:
Animal raising.
Crop cultivation. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.05: RIDGELINES:
   A.   Significant Ridgelines: The official significant ridgeline map,
incorporated herein by reference and identified on the Porterville 2030 general
plan land use diagram, identifies crests of significant ridgelines in the city
for the purpose of this article. The precise delineation of a ridgeline shall
be determined at the time a development application is received based on
official significant ridgeline map and the following criteria. Significant
ridgelines are those ridgelines characterized by any combination of the
criteria specified below:
      1.   The ridgelines that surround or visually dominate the surrounding
valley landscape either through their size in relation to the hillside or
mountain terrain of which they are a part.
      2.   Their visual dominance as characterized by a silhouetting appearance
against the sky.
      3.   A significant natural backdrop feature or separation of communities.
      4.   Visual dominance due to proximity and view from existing development
or major corridors.
      5.   As an area of significant ecological, historical, or cultural
importance, such as those that connect park or trail systems.
   B.   Ridgeline Preservation:
      1.   No grading or improvements shall occur within one hundred feet
(100') of a designated and delineated significant ridgeline area, as measured
horizontally on a topographic map prior to any grading or improvements. No
portion of any structure shall be closer to a designated and delineated
significant ridgeline area, as measured fifty feet (50') vertically from a
cross section of the area.
      2.   No engineered slopes, housing construction, streets, utilities,
excavation, or other permanent humanmade features shall be permitted within any
significant ridgeline area. Exceptions may be granted as part of the hillside
development permit process if findings are made that:
         a.   The encroachment into a significant ridgeline area will be in
compliance with the intent and purpose of this article and the specific
criteria set forth herein; and
         b.   Conditions of approval applied via the hillside development
permit will implement the provisions of this article.
   FIGURE 501.05B1:   RIDGELINE SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3783.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.06: GRADING:
   A.   General Grading Requirements:
      1.   Landform grading techniques such as varying slope height, rounding
tops and toes of slopes, and incorporating variable gradients shall be used to
ensure that manufactured slopes mimic natural hill forms. Landform grading
shall be used for all postdisturbance conditions unless determined by the
zoning administrator and the city engineer that landform grading is not
feasible due to soils conditions, encroachment into sensitive biological
resource areas, protection of watersheds or watercourses, or other similar
considerations. Findings shall be recorded as part of the hillside development
permit record as to why landform grading is not feasible. Grading shall be kept
to a minimum and shall be preformed in a way that preserves significant natural
features and visually blends with adjacent properties. Factors to be considered
include the natural features of the site, slope and soil characteristics,
vegetative cover, access to the site and orientation and visibility of both the
site and the proposed development.
   FIGURE 501.06A1:   GRADING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3786.png]
 
      2.   Construction of artificial ridgelines shall be used to mask the view
of dwelling from off site locations, to preserve the appearance of a natural
undeveloped hillside, and to preserve the appearance of open space.
      3.   A combination of berming and landscaping shall be used to screen
utilitarian features such as, but not limited to, water tanks and detention
basins.
      4.   Slopes which are readily visible from existing or proposed public
right of way shall be landform graded.
      5.   Grading of any site shall conform to the following grading
standards, based upon the percent of average slope:
         a.   Six (6) to fifteen percent (15%): Redistribution of earth over
large areas may be permitted.
         b.   Fifteen (15) to twenty percent (20%): Some grading may occur, but
landforms shall retain their natural character. Padded building sites may be
allowed, but custom foundations, split level designs, stacking and clustering
are expected to mitigate the need for large padded building areas.
         c.   Twenty (20) to twenty five and nine-tenths percent (25.9%):
Grading will be minimal, custom homes sites and access shall follow the natural
slope of the ground, custom foundations and split level design required to
reduce disturbance.
         d.   Twenty six percent (26%) and steeper: No grading shall be allowed
other than house pad and access to pad.
         e.   Minimize pad size to accommodate the structure and a reasonable
amount of open space. A maximum of the remaining lot area shall be kept in the
natural state of the original slope.
         f.   Sloping lot designs, such as split level building terraces are
encouraged to reduce pad size.
         g.   Minimize grading within twenty feet (20') of all perimeter
property lines of the project site, unless the grading naturally conforms to
the existing adjacent slopes or to the planned grading of the adjacent slopes.
   B.   Prohibited Grading Practices:
      1.   The cutting of significant ridgelines is prohibited.
      2.   Graded slopes that are characterized by linear (in plan), planar
slope surfaces with unvarying gradients and angular slope intersections are
prohibited.
      3.   Manufactured slopes shall complement the adjacent natural slopes in
terms of hill form and slope height.
   C.   Berming:
      1.   Any berm three feet (3') or greater in vertical height shall be
landform graded no steeper than three to one (3:1).
      2.   All berms shall have varying slope gradients and rounded tops with a
horizontal dimension half the vertical height of the berm.
      3.   A combination of berming and landscaping shall be used to screen
utilitarian features such as, but not limited to, water tanks and detention
basins.
      4.   Landscaping materials used on berms shall be drought tolerant and
fire resistant and must be approved by the parks and leisure services director.
   FIGURE 501.06C:   BERMING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3788.png]
 
   D.   Slopes Between Residential Pads: Where there is at least a four foot
(4') elevation difference between residential flat pads, slopes shall be
contour graded no steeper than two to one (2:1).
   FIGURE 501.06D:   SLOPES BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL PADS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3790.png]
 
   E.   Road Systems Along Project Edges: Road systems shall be placed along
project edges to the greatest extent practicable to maximize the use of
aesthetic landscape buffers surrounding a development and to buffer residential
neighborhoods from vehicular traffic. Project edges along roadway systems shall
consist of varied slope and landscape treatments to provide visual interest.
   FIGURE 501.06E:   ROAD SYSTEMS ALONG PROJECT EDGES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3792.png]
 
   F.   Use Of Loffelstein And Similar Living Walls: The use of Loffelstein
walls and other similar living wall systems that allow for landscaping
opportunities with planting pockets and stepped designs is required. Such wall
shall be subject to the following development standards:
      1.   The minimum height shall be fifteen feet (15'), with a maximum
height of thirty feet (30').
      2.   Such walls shall utilize a curvilinear slope pattern to mimic the
appearance of natural hillside terrain.
      3.   Such walls shall be planted with landscape material suitable for the
climate, wall exposure relative to the sun, and taking into consideration the
landscape aesthetic effect to be achieved by the overall development. The color
palette and materials selected for the retaining wall shall blend in with
adjacent hillsides and landscape plant palette.
   FIGURE 501.06F:   USE OF LOFFELSTEIN AND SIMILAR LIVING WALLS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3794.png]
 
   G.   Contour Construction And Materials: Retaining walls shall follow the
natural contours of the slope to the greatest degree practicable, and all
materials used to construct retaining walls shall consist of native stone,
poured in place concrete, precast concrete block, and shall be of a color and
texture that mimic the color and texture of surrounding native plant materials.
   H.   Retaining Wall Height Standards: The cumulative height of any retaining
wall built to retain a cut slope or fill slope shall not exceed six feet (6')
in height. "Cumulative height" shall mean the combined height of any wall or
series of walls required to retain a single slope. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.07: SITE DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   General: Site and subdivision features required and designed to control
and retain stormwater and other runoff pursuant to the requirements of city
ordinances and other pertinent regulations shall be fully integrated into the
design of the subdivision. Such features shall be designed and located to
account for natural drainage patterns, integration of open space into overall
subdivision design, location of trails and other mobility corridors, and
placement of subdivision entry enhancements or other aesthetic features.
   FIGURE 501.07A:   RUNOFF CONTROL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3799.png]
 
   B.   Materials And Color: Water retention and detention features shall
consist of natural earth and plant materials that must be approved by the parks
and leisure director. Concrete or similar hardscape materials shall not be
permitted unless determined by the city engineer to be the only feasible method
of capturing and conveying runoff. Wherever concrete or similar structures are
necessary, per drainage and stormwater control plans approved by the city
engineer, such structures shall use integral color concrete to blend with
surrounding color palette that blend with the natural environment.
   C.   Detention Basins:
      1.   A detention basin area with gentle slopes (defined as 3:1 or less)
and lined with turf or natural material such as rock may be used as an entry
feature. Detention basins shall not be eligible for open space, park credit, or
any fee credit.
      2.   Detention basin side slope ratios greater than three to one (3:1)
are prohibited.
   D.   Bioswales:
      1.   Bioswales shall be used to collect surface runoff before it crosses
pavement areas and to reduce ponding and damage to walkways. Bioswales shall be
graded to direct water away from paved areas into detention basins prior to
conveyance to the city drainage system per master plan.
   FIGURE 501.07D1:   USE OF BIOSWALES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3801.png]
 
      2.   Bioswales shall consist of primarily herbaceous plants whose stems
and leaves retard water flow and help settle pollutants, and which, with the
aid of the roots, decompose into the soil.
   FIGURE 501.07D2:   LANDSCAPING OF BIOSWALES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3796.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.08: STREET REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN:
   A.   Minimum Number Of Access Points: New hillside development projects
shall have a minimum of two (2) points of vehicular access, one of which may be
established for emergency access only, as determined by the fire chief through
the hillside development permit review process.
   B.   Street Design Standards: All streets shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Street sections shall be designed in accordance with street
standards and specifications adopted by the city and as revised from time to
time. In addition to such adopted standards, the following street standards
shall apply to development in the hillside residential zone:
         a.   The maximum length of any cul-de-sac street shall be six hundred
feet (600') unless approved otherwise by the fire chief and city engineer.
         b.   All streets shall contain two (2) clear twelve foot (12') travel
lanes.
      2.   Where split level streets are used, the following standards shall
apply:
         a.   The use of split level roads is permitted to reduce the amount
and visual effect of grading (figure 501.08B of this section).
         b.   The ground slope between the two (2) trafficways shall be of a
ratio lesson more than two to one (2:1).
   FIGURE 501.08B:   SPLIT LEVEL ROADWAYS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3803.png]
 
      3.   Street grades shall not exceed the following except as may be
modified by the city council in compliance with the municipal code. The maximum
length of street runs at the maximum specified grade shall be subject to the
review and approval of the fire chief and city engineer, or their respective
designees. Minor adjustments to street grades shall be subject to the review
and approval of the fire chief and the city engineer.
         a.   Major arterials shall be no steeper than eight percent (8%).
         b.   Minor arterials shall be no steeper than ten percent (10%).
         c.   Collector streets shall be no steeper than ten percent (10%).
         d.   Local streets shall be no steeper than ten percent (10%).
         e.   Loaded local streets shall be no steeper than eight percent (8%).
         f.   Intersections shall be at six percent (6%) grade or less.
         g.   Local streets can have a minimum centerline radius of one hundred
fifty feet (150') provided minimum sightline distances are met.
         h.   Street grades at fire hydrant locations shall be no steeper than
seven percent (7%) for no less than twenty feet (20') on each side of hydrant.
   C.   Private Streets:
      1.   Private streets and alleys shall not be permitted unless approved by
the city council and, if approved, all private streets or alleys shall be
constructed to city standards.
      2.   Driveway grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) unless otherwise
approved by the fire chief and city engineer. The finished grade of the
driveway shall conform to the finished grade of the lot. Proper design
consideration shall be given to vertical curves and parking landings.
      3.   Common drives in single-family hillside residential development
shall be considered if grading is reduced by their use. Common easement
maintenance agreements are required for common driveways.
   D.   Driveways:
      1.   Driveways that are less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in length
shall be a minimum of twelve feet (12') wide.
      2.   Driveways between one hundred fifty feet (150') and four hundred
feet (400') shall be a minimum of sixteen feet (16') wide.
      3.   Driveways that are greater than four hundred feet (400') in length
shall be subject to the approval of the fire chief.
      4.   Grade changes through driveway approaches and transitions shall not
exceed ten degrees (10°).
      5.   Driveways shall be paved with asphalt or portland cement concrete
(PCC). PCC or an approved alternative shall be used when grades exceed ten
percent (10%).
      6.   Private driveway gates are prohibited. All automatic gates across
emergency access roads shall be equipped and maintained with a city of
Porterville approved key operated switch overriding all command functions and
openings of gate(s). (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.09: OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Requirement To Provide Developed Open Space: Developed open space shall
be provided for attached residential development as set forth in section
501.11, table 501.11C4 of this article and as otherwise required for this
article to meet general landscaping, slope treatment, and parkway landscaping
requirements.
      1.   Types Of Open Space: Open space in the HZ overlay district shall
consist of two (2) general types of open space:
         a.   "Natural open space", which shall be defined as undeveloped areas
retained in their naturally occurring condition with regard to landform,
vegetation, and water features; with the exception of walking trails and
viewing platforms.
         b.   "Developed or improved open space", which shall be defined as any
area not occupied by structures that has been improved with landscaping,
trails, recreation amenities, and similar features that provide opportunities
for active and passive recreation, and that provide landscape improvements that
enhance the overall appearance and character of a development.
      2.   Use Of Natural Open Space: Undeveloped open space shall be left in
its natural state, with permitted improvements limited to the establishment of
trails and associated viewing areas established as community open space.
   B.   Deed Restrictions: Any lands dedicated for open space purposes shall
contain covenants and recordable deed restrictions burdening the subject
property, in a form and content approved by the city attorney, ensuring that:
      1.   The open space area will not be subdivided in the future;
      2.   The use of the open space will continue in perpetuity for the
purpose specified;
      3.   Appropriate provisions will be made for the maintenance of the open
space that clearly define future maintenance responsibilities; and
      4.   Common undeveloped open space shall not be turned into a commercial
enterprise admitting the general public at a fee, unless otherwise authorized
by policy or law.
   C.   Open Space Ownership:
      1.   The fee title owner or easement holder of an interest in the land
that is dedicated for open space purposes shall be selected by the property
owner, developer, or subdivider, subject to the approval by the zoning
administrator or city council. The ownership may vest in, but not be limited
to, the following:
         a.   The city, subject to acceptance by the city council of a
recordable interest.
         b.   Other public jurisdictions or agencies, subject to their
acceptance.
         c.   Quasi-public and nonprofit organizations, subject to their
acceptance.
         d.   Homeowners' associations, landscape maintenance districts or
other similar organizations.
      2.   The city may, in its reasonable discretion, require that the
applicant establish a mechanism to fund the long term maintenance of such open
space, which may include a cash deposit, an assessment district, trust, or
other appropriate funding mechanism.
   D.   Maintenance: The person or entity identified as having the right of
ownership or control over the open space shall be responsible for its
continuing upkeep and proper maintenance as set forth in subsection B, "Deed
Restrictions", of this section, unless the city authorizes alternate
maintenance strategies.
   E.   Required Planting Areas: Slopes requiring retaining at a height greater
than three feet (3') shall be terraced for planting areas. Such planting areas
shall have a minimum width of six feet (6'). No more than two (2) terraces of
retaining walls shall be permitted on one manufactured slope.
   FIGURE 501.09E:   PLANTING AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3807.png]
 
   F.   Irrigation Systems Required: All planting areas shall be provided with
an automatic irrigation system.
   G.   Landscaped Parkways Required:
      1.   All public streets shall include a landscaped parkway as indicated
in the general plan.
      2.   Such required parkways shall be landscaped as set forth in section
501.10, "Landscaping And Irrigation", of this article. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.10: LANDSCAPING AND IRRIGATION:
Landscaping is an essential part of the site development by assisting in
adapting the development into the natural backdrop of the hills, by providing
areas of open space for use by residents and for assisting in slope
stabilization, erosion control and filtering of pollutants from stormwater.
   A.   Landscape And Irrigation Plan:
      1.   All proposed new development shall require approval of a conceptual
landscape plan. Complete landscape and irrigation plans shall be submitted as
part of the building permit application process. Such plan shall be subject to
the review and approval of the parks and leisure services director and the fire
chief.
      2.   All landscape and irrigation plans shall include all information
required by this chapter and shall be designed to ensure slope stability, fire
safety, and design quality, as well as a tree removal and retention plan with
the following information:
         a.   Identification of the extent of vegetation removal required for
site preparation and development; and
         b.   The location and species of individual trees of six inch (6")
caliper or more. Maximum effort shall be exercised to retain existing trees in
place.
      3.   The zoning administrator may waive the landscape and irrigation plan
requirement for additions and remodeling where no or only minor alterations to
the existing landscape or topography are proposed.
      4.   All landscaping shall be planted and maintained in compliance with
approved plans.
   B.   General Landscaping Standards:
      1.   All portions of a site where existing vegetative cover is damaged or
removed, or consists primarily of weeds (typically unwanted plants that grow
aggressively and are damaging to landscaping), and are not otherwise covered
with new improvements, must be successfully revegetated with a substantial mix
of native and/or drought tolerant grasses and ground covers. The density of the
reestablished vegetation must be adequate to prevent soil erosion and invasion
of weeds after one growing season.
      2.   A combination of berming and landscaping shall be used to screen
utilitarian features such as, but not limited to, water tanks and detention
basins.
      3.   Plants with similar water requirements shall be grouped together in
hydrozones.
      4.   Prior to planting, consideration of soil compaction shall be used to
determine planting pit depths and drainage.
      5.   The zoning administrator and the parks and leisure services director
shall have the authority to require other improvements such as the removal of
dead or diseased trees and the thinning of trees or other vegetation to
encourage desirable growth.
   C.   Tree Removal And Replacement: For each existing native tree or shrub
removed or damaged with a combined caliper equal to or greater than six inches
(6") at four feet (4') above finish grade, a twenty four inch (24") box minimum
replacement tree or shrub of the same genus and species or as otherwise
approved by the parks and leisure director shall be planted on the site. For
trees equal to or in excess of an eight inch (8") combined caliper, the
replacement tree shall be a forty eight inch (48") box or larger of the same
genus and species. Should a tree of the same genus and species not be
available, the applicant shall submit reasonable proof of general
unavailability in the region, and a list of no less than five (5) substitutes,
one of which shall be of the same genus, for approval by the parks and leisure
services director. The parks and leisure services director may approve a
substitute or may require provisions, including, but not limited to, bonds or
similar security, to assure the installation and maintenance of the specific
genus desired.
   FIGURE 501.10C:   STANDARDS FOR TREE PROTECTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3809.png]
 
   D.   Setbacks/Slopes Along Roadway Edges:
      1.   The following setbacks from the curb face, or line that would be the
location of the curb face, to the property line shall be required from the
following roadways:
         a.   Major arterial: Eighty feet (80').
         b.   Minor arterial: Sixty feet (60').
         c.   Parkway: Forty feet (40').
         d.   Collector: Thirty five feet (35').
         e.   Local residential street: Twenty feet (20').
      2.   Setbacks and slopes along edges between roadways and rear property
lines shall be fully landscaped with materials consistent with all other common
open space areas. The landscape material shall transition in height to provide
low vegetation immediately adjacent to the right of way edge to taller trees on
the slope.
   FIGURE 501.10D1:   LANDSCAPE PLANTING SENSITIVE TO VIEWS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3805.png]
 
      3.   Any manufactured slope in excess of four feet (4') vertical that
abuts any public or private street or other right of way or open space use
intended for public use and/or enjoyment shall be fully landscaped in
accordance with the provisions of this article and shall be maintained by a
homeowners' association or other entity required as part of the tentative map
approval process for the maintenance of common open space.
   FIGURE 501.10D2:   LANDSCAPING ALONG RIGHT OF WAY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3812.png]
 
   E.   Drought Tolerant/Native Vegetation:
      1.   All landscape plans must use native and/or drought tolerant plant
materials appropriate for their location and soil type, as identified in
standard agricultural suitability soils test. Preferred landscaping materials
shall consist of native plants. Landscape and irrigation plans shall comply
with the city's water efficient landscape requirements contained in article
303, "Landscaping", of this chapter.
      2.   All native vegetation outside the impact area shall be preserved and
protected from damage during construction. Oak trees shall have a preservation
zone of the drip line plus ten feet (10') surrounding the tree. Any project
impact within this preservation zone shall be considered as damaging to the
tree.
   F.   Interface Between Natural Open Space Areas And Development:
      1.   The area between a structure and wildfire hazard areas, as contained
within the general plan and defined by the fire chief, shall be planted and
maintained as consistent with the provisions of subsection J of this section.
The transition between manufactured areas and natural areas shall be
established beyond residential structures so as to permit the development to
meet the state code regarding wildland interface in state response areas.
      2.   Climatically suitable shrubs and trees shall be used as windbreaks
as appropriate.
   G.   Landscaping As Focal Points: Significant landscaping, such as signature
trees (i.e., large or unique trees), hedges, and flowering plants shall be used
to provide focal points within a development, including and specifically as
entry statements that shall require the following setbacks measured diagonally
from face of curb, or the line that would be the location of the curb face:
      1.   Major arterial: One hundred feet (100').
      2.   Minor arterial: Eighty feet (80').
      3.   Parkway: Fifty feet (50').
      4.   Collector: Fifty feet (50').
      5.   Local residential street: Twenty feet (20').
A landscape area shall then be provided generally matching the depictions
within figure 501.10G of this section. Provisions for maintenance of said
landscape areas shall be an integral component of project approval. No
landscaping or other features shall interfere with the established sight
distance needed for safe vehicular access at intersections.
   FIGURE 501.10G:   LANDSCAPED ENTRIES AND FOCAL POINTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3814.png]
 
   H.   Slope Maintenance And Erosion Control:
      1.   All cut and fill slopes shall be planted with native and/or drought
tolerant vegetation and irrigated with an automatic irrigation system to
prevent erosion.
      2.   All cut or fill slopes exceeding five feet (5') in vertical height
shall be planted with adequate plant material to protect the slope against
erosion. Planting shall be in the ratio of at least one shrub per sixteen (16)
square feet of natural slope area and one tree per four hundred (400) square
feet of actual slope area, with ground cover to completely cover the slope
within twelve (12) months from planting.
      3.   All shrubs shall be a minimum one gallon size.
      4.   All trees shall be minimum fifteen (15) gallon size.
      5.   Slopes less than five feet (5') in vertical height shall be planted
with ground cover to cover the slopes completely within twelve (12) months of
planting.
      6.   Landscape coverage and stabilization of graded slopes shall be
selected and designed to be compatible with surrounding natural vegetation. A
city approved irrigation system shall be utilized for plant establishment. A
minimum three feet (3') flat area from top or toe of slope of twenty feet (20')
or greater in height shall be maintained to face of wall or fence on common
area maintenance slopes.
      7.   Shrubs on manufactured slopes shall be heavily concentrated along
the drainage flow of swales.
      8.   Lawns and sod shall not be installed on slopes steeper than four to
one (4:1). Low maintenance bunch grasses can be used on slopes steeper than
four to one (4:1).
   I.   Irrigation:
      1.   Irrigation shall be designed to conserve water and to protect
existing native vegetation.
      2.   Drip irrigation shall be required in appropriate areas to reduce
overspray and runoff.
      3.   Irrigation needs shall be reduced by careful control of drainage
pattern on a slope and selection of appropriate plant material.
      4.   Technological irrigation equipment, such as humidity sensors, that
control irrigation settings and run times due to seasonal weather changes shall
be used.
   J.   Fuel Modification Zones:
      1.   A permanent fuel modification area and fire prevention plan shall be
required, subject to the determination of the fire chief, around development
projects, or portions thereof, that are adjacent or exposed to hazardous fire
areas for the purpose of fire protection. The recommended width of the fuel
modification area shall be based on applicable building and fire codes and the
state code regarding wildland interface in state response areas and the
recommendations of the fire chief, with consideration given to:
         a.   The natural nongraded slope of the land within the project and in
the areas adjacent to the project.
         b.   Fuel loading.
         c.   Access to the project by fire suppression equipment, and access
directly to the fuel modified area, and egress out of the project in case of
evacuation.
         d.   The on site availability of water that can be used for
firefighting purposes with regard to fire flows, water pressure, and duration.
         e.   "Built-in" fire protection within structures.
   FIGURE 501.10J:   FUEL MODIFICATION ZONES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3816.png]
 
      2.   Adequate provisions shall be made for the continual maintenance of
such areas, and the fire chief may require brush, vegetation, or debris to be
removed and cleared consistent with the provisions of section 12-1.1 of the
municipal code, which adopts the uniform fire code as the city's fire code.
   K.   Private Yard Landscaping: The paving of over forty percent (40%) of
either the front yard or rear yard shall not be permitted.
   L.   Screening:
      1.   Landscaping shall be designed to screen the view of downslope
building elevations. The landscape plan for individual residential dwellings
shall specifically consider the downslope elevation and demonstrate that
portions of elevations below the bottommost floor are screened from view.
Downslope elevations visible from any adjacent property or public right of way
shall be landscaped with a selection of shrubs and trees that screen the
downslope portion from view to the satisfaction of the zoning administrator.
      2.   Visual screening and privacy within side and rear yards shall be
provided; front yards and building entrances shall be substantially visible for
security purposes.
   M.   On Lot Tree Program:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) trees shall be installed and permanently
maintained in each rear yard.
      2.   One additional tree shall be installed along the side yard adjacent
to the street on corner lots with uphill visibility from roads.
      3.   Tree sizes shall be a minimum of twenty four inch (24") box for rear
yards with fifteen foot (15') depths or less and thirty six inch (36") box for
rear yards that are greater than fifteen feet (15') deep.
      4.   Minimum distance between tree trunk and adjacent property line shall
be five feet (5').
      5.   Soil compaction and drainage shall be considered when determining
planting pit depths.
   FIGURE 501.10M: ON LOT TREE PROGRAM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3818.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
501.11: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Allowable Density Calculation Procedures: For the purposes of this
article, "allowable density" is defined as the maximum number of dwelling units
permitted per gross acre of land. The maximum allowable density shall be based
upon and established by the average slope of a property, calculated in
compliance with subsection 501.03D3 of this article. The maximum allowable
density based on the average slope shall be as set forth in table 501.11A of
this section.
      TABLE 501.11A:   MAXIMUM ALLOWED DENSITY BASED ON AVERAGE SLOPE
 
Average Slope                   Maximum Allowable Density
Less than 5.9 percent inclusive    2.4 units/acre
   6 to 10.9 percent            2.2 units/acre
   11 to 20.9 percent           1.8 units/acre
   21 to 25.9 percent           1.0 units/acre
   26 to 30.9 percent           1 unit/20 acres
   31 to 50 percent             1 unit/80 acres
 
      1.   The maximum dwelling unit yield based on the maximum allowable
density mathematical sum shall be considered maximum potentials and not an
entitlement, right or vested right to develop. Other factors and individual
property characteristics will affect and may reduce the yield, including, but
not limited to: physical constraints, floor area ratio, compliance with design
guidelines, engineering design standards, hillside development standards; and
performance criteria such as access, emergency response standards, and
sensitive grading techniques and volumes.
      2.   Calculating the maximum allowable density for any parcel or group of
parcels under common development application within the HZ overlay district
shall involve the following steps:
         a.   Establish allowed density based on average slope:
            (1)   Alternative 1; average slope of the parcel or group of
parcels: For alternative 1, the average slope shall be calculated in compliance
with subsection
501.03D3 of this article. For example, a one hundred (100) acre parcel which
has an average slope for the entire parcel of twenty five percent (25%) would
yield a maximum of one hundred (100) units.
            (2)   Alternative 2; recalculation alternative: The largest
contiguous area of the least steep slope category may be used to calculate
average slope in compliance with the method established in subsection 501.03D2
of this article. For example, on a one hundred (100) acre parcel, of which
sixty (60) acres has an average slope of more than twenty five and nine-tenths
percent (25.9%), thirty (30) acres are between twenty one (21) to twenty five
and nine-tenths percent (25.9%) slope, and there is a contiguous ten (10) acre
area of between eleven (11) to twenty and nine-tenths percent (20.9%), the ten
(10) acres with an average slope of eleven (11) to twenty and nine-tenths
percent (20.9%) can be used to recalculate allowable density (1.8 units/acre x
10 acres = 18 units).
      3.   For the purposes of this article, "floor area ratio (FAR)" is
defined as the ratio of the total gross square footage of the dwelling unit
excluding both attached and detached garage square footage and any accessory
structure on a lot to the square footage of the pad or that portion of the lot
containing the dwelling and having a gradient of five percent (5%) or less.
After constraints and performance criteria have been addressed to develop a
maximum yield, the maximum yields for a parcel is further affected by average
FAR and are based on table 501.11A3 of this section.
      TABLE 501.11A3:   UNIT YIELD BASED ON FLOOR AREA RATIO
 
Dwelling Unit Yield   Maximum FAR
Maximum units         0.4
80 percent of maximum 0.5
70 percent of maximum 0.6
60 percent of maximum 0.7
 
      4.   Physical constraints are the on site circumstances and resources
that will be protected consistent with policies in the general plan or other
regulatory requirements. Factors that require special consideration are as
follows:
         a.   USGS blue line streams, sensitive biological resource areas
identified in the biological resource survey report completed for the project,
and archaeological resources identified in the archaeological survey conducted
for the project.
         b.   Areas greater than twenty five and nine-tenths percent (25.9%)
slope greater than one acre as determined by subsection
501.03D, "Slope Analysis Map", of this article.
         c.   Liquefiable soils, shallow hard rock, and faulting.
         d.   Large, mature native trees including: coastal live oak,
sycamores, or willow.
   B.   Detached Dwellings: Standards for detached dwelling units will provide
assurance that development will be appropriate to the hillside setting. The
following standards combined with the standards for grading and drainage,
subdivision and landscaping design will result in adaptive hillside
development:
   FIGURE 501.11A:   HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3820.png]
 
      1.   Density: Density limitations shall be determined as set forth in
table
501.11A of this section.
      2.   Minimum Pad Size: The minimum area of a pad on a lot, including the
summation of multiple pad areas where split level construction is proposed,
shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet.
      3.   Building Setbacks: Building setbacks shall be set forth in table
501.11B3 of this section.
      TABLE 501.11B3:   BUILDING SETBACKS DETACHED DWELLINGS
 Pad Size In Square Feet
 6,000 to 7,999 8,000 to 9,999 10,000 And Greater
                                Pad Size In Square Feet
                                6,000 to 7,999 8,000 to 9,999 10,000 And
                                                              Greater
Setbacks:                                                    
    Front yard              20'            30'            40'
    Side yard               7.5'           7.5'           10'
    Rear yard               20'            20'            30'
Corner setbacks:                                             
    Face of curb to privacy 20'            20'            25'
wall1
    Privacy wall to structur10'            10'            15'
 
   Note:
       1.    Setbacks are measured from face of curb or for rolled curbs, from
the flowline.
   FIGURE 501.11B:   BUILDING SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3823.png]
 
      4.   Floor Area Ratios: Maximum allowable floor area ratios shall be as
set forth in table 501.11A3 of this section.
      5.   Building Height; Primary Structure: Each proposed single- family
detached structure in the HZ overlay district shall comply with the following
height limits:
         a.   Height Measurement: The maximum allowable building height shall
be measured as the vertical distance from the existing or planned grade of the
site at the point of the building foundation to an imaginary plane located at
the allowed number of feet above and parallel to the grade. For split level
construction, each building component shall be measured from the lowest
elevation of the site pad area on which that component is located.
   FIGURE 501.11B5:   BUILDING HEIGHT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3825.png]
 
         b.   General Height Limit: No structure shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35').
         c.   Height Of Lowest Floor Level: The vertical distance between the
lowest point where the foundation wall meets grade and the lowest floor line of
the structure shall not exceed six feet (6').
   C.   Attached Dwellings:
      1.   Density: Density limitations shall be determined as set forth in
table 501.11A of this section. Where attached housing is proposed, the overall
permitted density of a development site shall determine the maximum number of
units allowed, and all such units may be clustered or attached on a lot or lots
restricted to a limited area of the development site, with the density
calculation applicable to the site as a whole. However, in compliance with the
provisions of section 501.09, "Open Space", of this article, any remainder open
space lot or lots shall be deed restricted against further residential
development and shall be permanently maintained as required by the provisions
of this article.
      2.   Building Height: Each proposed attached or clustered dwelling unit
structure shall comply with the following height limits:
         a.   Height Measurement: The maximum allowable building height shall
be measured as in compliance with subsection 501.11B5, "Building Height;
Primary Structure", of this article.
         b.   General Height Limit: No structure or group of structures shall
exceed a height of thirty five feet (35').
         c.   Height Of Lowest Floor Level: The vertical distance between the
lowest point where the foundation meets grade and the lowest floor line of the
structure shall not exceed six feet (6').
      3.   Building Setbacks: Buildings shall be set back from lot lines as
indicated in table 501.11C3 of this section.
      TABLE 501.11C3:   ATTACHED BUILDING SETBACKS FROM LOT LINES
 
Yard Lot Line                 Minimum Setback
Front yard                    20'
Side yard                     15'
Rear yard                     20'
Face of curb to privacy wall1 20'
Privacy wall to structure     10'
 
   Note:
       1.    Setbacks are measured from face of curb or for rolled curbs, from
the flowline.
         a.   Building To Building: The minimum setback between structures
shall be no less than twenty feet (20').
         b.   Building To Street Or Parking Area: The minimum building setback
to street or parking area shall be no less than twenty feet (20'), measured
from face of curb.
         c.   Building To Privacy Wall: The minimum building setback to privacy
wall shall be no less than twenty feet (20').
   FIGURE 501.11C1:   BUILDING SEPARATION AND SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3827.png]
 
   FIGURE 501.11C2:   REAR YARD AND SIDE YARD SETBACKS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3830.png]
 
      4.   Required Common Open Space Area: Every attached or cluster
development project shall be required to provide common open space areas
accessible to all dwelling units within such development project. The required
area shall be as set forth in table 501.11C4 of this section. Such common open
space area may consist of passive landscaped area, common recreation facilities
such as a swimming pool or sports court, or any combination of such
improvements. The minimum dimensions of such common open space area shall be
twenty feet by twenty feet (20' x 20'). Such common open space shall be
centrally located and equally accessible to all dwelling units within the
development.
      TABLE 501.11C4 REQUIRED COMMON OPEN SPACE    FOR ATTACHED DWELLINGS
 
Numbers Of Dwelling Units Within Development Required Open Space Area
   0 - 20                                 100 sq. ft. per dwelling unit
   21 - 40                                150 sq. ft. per dwelling unit
   40+                                    200 sq. ft. per dwelling unit
 
      5.   Location Of Garages: Garage structures for attached and cluster
developments are not required to be attached to the dwelling units they serve.
Common garage structures may be developed, providing parking and open space are
provided for as required by this chapter.
   D.   Custom Lot Design And Development Standards:
      1.   Design Standards; General:
         a.   Roadways, driveways, and individual building pads shall be
designed to conform to the natural hillside contours, blending into the
environment rather than forcing building sites and infrastructure upon the
land. An emphasis shall be placed on limiting grading to individual flat graded
pad areas for residential building sites and any roads accessing the
residential building sites, ensuring a minimal cut and fill situation.
         b.   Any areas that require grading shall incorporate landform grading
techniques to further encourage the natural appearance of custom pads.
         c.   For any standard not specifically indicated in this section as
applying to custom lot development, the general standards applicable to all
development in the HZ overlay district shall apply.
      2.   Landscape Standards: Custom lot development shall implement
landscape standards that avoid harsh or abrupt transitions between open space
and development while providing a combination of landscape materials that blend
into the adjoining natural open space. Landscape setbacks along roads and along
flat pads of custom lots shall be required to ensure that suitable transitions
from residential development to natural open space are accomplished.
      3.   Architectural Standards: Individual houses on custom lots shall be
visually compatible with the surrounding area, with architecture that
complements the adjacent natural environment and any adjoining residential
structures and/or neighborhoods.
      4.   Grading Standards:
         a.   Unless otherwise specified in this section, the landform grading
practices set forth in section 501.06, "Grading", of this article, shall apply.
         b.   Retaining walls shall be screened from public view to the
greatest extent possible.
      5.   Development Standards:
         a.   The minimum pad size shall be no less than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet unless the site is over fifteen percent (15%) average slope in
which case smaller padded building sites are allowed to reduce grading impacts
as set forth in section
501.06, "Grading", of this article.
         b.   Maximum building height, as measured from finished grade to top
of building, shall be as follows:
            (1)   Eighteen feet (18'): Single-story portion of structure.
            (2)   Twenty eight feet (28'): Two-story portion of structure.
            (3)   Thirty five feet (35'): Three-story portion of structure.
         c.   Setbacks shall be provided as set forth in table 501.11C3 of this
section.
         d.   No fence or walls shall exceed a height of six feet (6'), and all
fences and walls shall comply with the regulations set forth in subsection G6,
"Fencing And Privacy Walls", of this section.
         e.   Walls and opaque fencing shall be permitted only on the flat pad
of a custom lot.
         f.   The minimum landscape setback of twenty feet (20') shall be
provided between developed pad and natural vegetation.
         g.   The maximum step in foundation wall shall be no higher than ten
feet (10') to account for homes built in a hillside setting.
         h.   Where no standard is specifically indicated in this subsection,
the development standards set forth in subsection A, "Allowable Density
Calculation Procedures", of this section, shall apply.
   E.   Accessory Structures:
      1.   Accessory structures shall either be constructed as an integral part
of the main dwelling unit or be within the setbacks set forth in
table 501.11C3 of this section.
      2.   The height of any accessory structure shall be limited to sixteen
feet (16').
      3.   Accessory structures shall not be permitted within any front yard
area.
      4.   Accessory structures shall maintain a minimum five foot (5') setback
from rear and side pad edges. For pads on lots adjacent to a street, a minimum
twenty foot (20') setback from any pad edge to the street shall be maintained.
A side yard on the street side of a corner lot shall maintain a minimum twenty
foot (20') setback from pad edge.
   F.   Other Regulations:
      1.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be provided and properly
shielded to avoid glare and the spill of light to surrounding areas. Low level
lighting and the use of multiple low profile fixtures is encouraged, as opposed
to the use of fewer, but taller fixtures. Emphasis for exterior lighting shall
be on safety and landscape lighting as opposed to building lighting. The
applicant shall present descriptions of exterior lighting in the design
guideline manual required by subsection
501.03H, "Architectural And Landscaping Design Guidelines Manual", of this
article.
      2.   Decks: No portion of the walking surface of a deck with visible
underpinnings shall exceed a height of six feet (6') above grade. Decks shall
be integrated into the architecture of the house and not appear as an add-on to
the primary building mass. The applicant shall present illustrations and
descriptions of decks in the design guideline manual required by subsection
501.03H, "Architectural And Landscaping Design Guidelines Manual", of this
article.
      3.   Utilities: All newly installed utilities shall be placed underground
unless, in the determination of the authority responsible for approving the
hillside development permit, such requirement would result in unsafe
conditions. All existing electric power lines of capacity sixty six (66)
kilovolts or less shall be relocated underground. All utilities shall be placed
underground unless, in the determination of the authority responsible for
approving the hillside development permit, such requirement would result in
unsafe conditions.
      4.   Gated Communities Prohibited: Gated communities shall be prohibited.
      5.   Private Gates At Driveway Prohibited: All gates or other structures
or devices, which could obstruct emergency access or otherwise hinder emergency
operations, shall be prohibited. Private gates at driveways that do not hinder
emergency access or operations shall be set back a minimum of thirty feet (30')
from the front property line.
   G.   Architectural Standards; General: To achieve hillside compatible
development, the city recognizes the importance of having architectural design
that incorporates rooflines and other building elements that reflect the
naturally occurring ridgeline silhouettes and topographical variation.
      1.   Conformance With Project Design Manual: The applicant shall
demonstrate how the architectural criteria of this section are met in the
design guideline manual required by subsection
501.03H, "Architectural And Landscaping Design Guidelines Manual", of this
article.
      2.   Architectural Themes:
         a.   For subdivisions consisting of production style development,
whereby dwelling units are constructed by a single developer utilizing a
limited number of floor plans and building architectural styles, the
architectural styles throughout the development shall be thematically
consistent with one another. Varying floor plans, colors, materials, and
building forms shall be utilized such that within a single development project,
a minimum of nine (9) different elevations are available. However, where
attached units are provided, a more unified architectural scheme is permitted.
         b.   For custom lot developments consisting of a subdivision of more
than one lot, the requirement for a design guideline manual, as set forth in
subsection
501.03H, "Architectural And Landscaping Design Guidelines Manual", of this
article, shall apply.
         c.   For a development consisting of one home on an existing lot, such
homes shall comply with the requirements of subsection B, "Detached Dwellings",
of this section.
      3.   Required Treatments:
         a.   Architectural treatments on all exterior walls of any building
shall be designed to avoid a monotonous or continuous facade of the exterior
wall. Under no circumstance shall the front and rear facade of any building be
in one continuous vertical or horizontal plane. Architectural features and
details shall be located on all exterior walls of the building, including the
rear and sides of the building. Buildings shall utilize wall articulation
(i.e., insets, pop outs, etc.) and roof orientation as a means to prevent
massing.
         b.   The apparent size of exterior wall surfaces visible from off the
site shall be minimized through the use of single-story elements, building face
setbacks, overhangs, landscaping, and/or other means of horizontal and vertical
articulation to create changing shadow lines and break up of massive forms.
   FIGURE 501.11G3:   BUILDING FACADES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3832.png]
 
      4.   Finish Materials/Color: Building materials and colors shall be
compatible with the natural setting. Exterior colors shall be limited to earth
tones found in nearby natural vegetation and/or soil, or come from natural
sources (e.g., rock, stone, wood), or resemble a natural appearance.
      5.   Support Structures:
         a.   Support structures (e.g., columns, pilings, etc.) below the
lowest floor on the downhill side of a house, if and where permitted as part of
the hillside development permit review process, shall be enclosed unless
visible structural members are an integral feature of the architectural design.
         b.   A support structure wall surface shall not exceed six feet (6')
in height.
   FIGURE 501.11G5:   SUPPORT STRUCTURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3834.png]
 
      6.   Fencing And Privacy Walls:
         a.   All fences and masonry walls adjacent to or fronting on public
roads or major public spaces shall be of decorative masonry or other approved
materials that have a natural appearance (e.g., masonry walls, prefabricated
modular concrete) and shall be a color that blends with the natural surrounding
environment and complements the landscaping. The use of indigenous rock and
colors or materials which blend with the surrounding natural landscape shall be
preferred. The applicant shall present illustrations and descriptions of
fencing and wall materials in the design guideline manual required by
subsection
501.03H, "Architectural And Landscaping Design Guidelines Manual", of this
article.
         b.   Any fence or privacy wall adjacent to a public road or major
public space shall be placed at the top of a slope.
         c.   All fences and privacy walls, whether or not visible from a
public road or major public open space, shall be limited in height to six feet
(6'), as measured from the grade on which the bottom of the fence or wall is
placed to the uppermost extent of such fence or wall.
         d.   Solid fences and walls in a required front yard area, or within
the street side yard on a reverse corner lot shall not exceed a height of forty
two inches (42").
         e.   Open work fences, whereby the fence is ninety percent (90%) open
or more, shall not exceed a height of forty eight inches (48") within the front
setback or within the street side yard on a reverse corner lot, otherwise the
height limitations specified in subsections G6c and G6d of this section shall
apply.
         f.   The provisions of subsection
407.03A6 of this chapter regarding corner rounding areas shall apply.
         g.   A minimum setback distance of twenty feet (20') shall be provided
between any fence or privacy wall adjacent to a public right of way, with the
distance measured from the fence or privacy wall to the face of curb.
         h.   Any fence or wall that runs along the top of a landform and
silhouettes against the sky shall be transparent to allow views from off site
to be unobstructed.
   FIGURE 501.11G6:   SETBACK FROM PRIVACY WALL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3836.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 502. SINGLE STORY (S) OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
502.01: Purpose
502.02: Applicability
502.03: Building Height And Number Of Stories
502.01: PURPOSE:
The single story (S) overlay district is intended to ensure the scale of new
development is compatible with existing development and uses in transitional
zones. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
502.02: APPLICABILITY:
The standards of this article apply to all lands within the S overlay district
mapped on the official zoning map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3838.png]
 
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
502.03: BUILDING HEIGHT AND NUMBER OF STORIES:
Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35'). All buildings are
limited to single story construction. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
SERIES 600. ADMINISTRATION AND PERMITS
ARTICLE 600. PLANNING AGENCY
SECTION:
600.01: Purpose
600.02: City Council
600.03: Zoning Administrator
600.04: Project Review Committee
600.05: Parcel Map Committee
600.01: PURPOSE:
This article identifies the bodies, officials, and administrators, with
designated responsibilities under various parts and articles of this chapter.
Subsequent articles of this series provide detailed information regarding
various procedures, applications, and permits including zoning, and general
plan text and map amendments, fees, and enforcement. When carrying out their
assigned duties and responsibilities, all bodies, administrators, and officials
shall interpret and apply the provisions of this chapter as minimum
requirements adopted to implement the policies and achieve the objectives of
the general plan. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
600.02: CITY COUNCIL:
The city council has the following powers and duties under this chapter:
   A.   Initiate, consider and adopt, reject or modify amendments to the
general plan pursuant to the provisions of article 607, "Amendments To General
Plan", of this series;
   B.   Initiate, consider and adopt, reject or modify amendments to the text
of this chapter pursuant to the provisions of article 608, "Amendments To
Zoning Map And Text", of this series and the state Government Code;
   C.   Approve, conditionally approve, modify or deny conditional use permits
and variances pursuant to the provisions of articles 604, "Conditional Use
Permits", and 606, "Variances", of this series;
   D.   Approve, conditionally approve, or deny tentative subdivision maps
pursuant to the provisions of article 402, "Tentative Maps", of this chapter;
   E.   Hear and decide appeals from decisions of the zoning administrator on
temporary use permits, minor modifications of approved conditional use permits,
administrative approvals, environmental review, and any other permits that can
be appealed pursuant to the provisions of article 612, "Appeals", of this
series and other applicable requirements;
   F.   Hear and decide appeals from decisions of the parcel map committee on
tentative parcel maps pursuant to the provisions of article 612, "Appeals", of
this series and other applicable requirements;
   G.   Enter into development agreements with property owners pursuant to the
provisions of article 609, "Development Agreements", of this series and the
state Government Code;
   H.   Establish, by resolution, a schedule of fees and deposits for the
various applications and services provided pursuant to this chapter;
   I.   Initiate proceedings to revoke or amend conditional use permits
pursuant to the provisions of article 613, "Enforcement", of this series; and
   J.   Determine which incentives the city should grant to developers
proposing projects that are eligible for such incentives under this chapter and
the provisions of state law applicable to affordable housing and childcare
facilities. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
600.03: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The zoning administrator is the community development director or his
designated appointee. The zoning administrator has the following powers and
duties under this chapter:
   A.   Provide professional recommendations to the city council, other
appointed officials and city management on matters related to the planning and
development of the community;
   B.   Administer the provisions of the California environmental quality act
(CEQA) and the national environmental policy act (NEPA);
   C.   Approve, conditionally approve, modify, or deny applications reviewed
by the project review and parcel map committees;
   D.   On behalf of the city execute indemnification and cost recovery
agreement for projects requiring discretionary permits and/or those evaluated
under the provisions of CEQA and NEPA;
   E.   Hear and decide applications for temporary use permits, minor
modifications of approved conditional use permits, and administrative approvals
subject to appeal to the city council;
   F.   Hear and decide applications for adjustments pursuant to provisions of
article 610, "Adjustments", of this series;
   G.   Make determinations of zoning conformance pursuant to article 602,
"Zoning Conformance Review", of this series;
   H.   Make environmental determinations on any approvals it grants that are
subject to environmental review under the California environmental quality act
and the procedures in article 611, "Environmental Review", of this series;
   I.   Negotiate the components and provisions of development agreements for
recommendation to the city council;
   J.   Issue administrative regulations for the submission and review of
applications;
   K.   Administratively approve or deny a use or occupancy where authority to
do so is provided for in this chapter;
   L.   Make determinations of uncertainty of boundaries on the official zoning
map pursuant to subsection 101.02B of this chapter;
   M.   Determine whether a legally approved permit has lapsed due to lack of
implementation or an extension as provided for in subsections
601.08A, "Expiration", and B, "Extensions", of this series; and
   N.   Act as the environmental coordinator in administering the provisions of
the California environmental quality act. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
600.04: PROJECT REVIEW COMMITTEE:
The project review committee consists of the zoning administrator, city
planner, city engineer, chief building official, and fire chief or their
designees. The project review committee shall review development proposals for
the following projects through the project review process:
   A.   All new or additions of five hundred (500) square feet or more to
commercial or industrial structures;
   B.   Multi-family residential developments of four (4) or more units or
consisting of two (2) or more structures;
   C.   A change of occupancy as deemed necessary by the Chief Building
Official, or where the new occupant is in a different use classification than
the former occupant;
   D.   Any project that requires a discretionary approval, including, but not
limited to, conditional use permits, variances, zoning change, general plan
amendment, subdivision, and annexation; and
   E.   Preliminary review of a map application.
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013; amd. Ord. 1881, 4-6-2021)
600.05: PARCEL MAP COMMITTEE:
The parcel map committee shall review and approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove subdivision maps for tentative parcel maps as defined in article
402, "Tentative Maps", of this chapter, unless other related discretionary
permits require approval by the city council. In this case, the parcel map
committee actions will be in the form of a recommendation to the city council.
The parcel map committee shall also make environmental determinations on any
approvals it grants that are subject to environmental review under the
California environmental quality act and the procedures in article 611,
"Environmental Review", of this series. Said parcel map committee shall include
the zoning administrator, city engineer and fire chief or their designees. The
zoning administrator shall serve as committee chairman. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 601. COMMON PROCEDURES
SECTION:
601.01: Purpose
601.02: Application Forms And Fees
601.03: Project Review
601.04: Review Of Applications
601.05: Public Notification
601.06: Scope Of Approvals
601.07: Effective Dates
601.08: Expiration And Extension
601.09: Modification Of Approvals; Changed Plans
601.10: Revocation Or Modification Of Approvals
601.11: Appeals
601.01: PURPOSE:
This article establishes procedures that are common to the application and
processing of all permits and approvals provided for in this chapter unless
superseded by specific requirement of this chapter or state law. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
601.02: APPLICATION FORMS AND FEES:
   A.   Applicants: The following persons may file applications:
      1.   The owner of the subject property; and
      2.   An agent representing the owner, duly authorized to do so in writing
by the owner, including a person with a duly executed written contract or
exclusive option to purchase the subject property or a lessee in possession of
the subject property.
   B.   Application Forms And Supporting Materials:
      1.   Application Forms: The zoning administrator shall prepare and issue
application forms and lists that specify the information that will be required
from applicants for projects subject to the provisions of this chapter, as
required by the California permit streamlining act.
      2.   Supporting Materials: The zoning administrator may require the
submission of supporting materials as part of the application, including, but
not limited to, statements, photographs, plans, drawings, renderings, material
samples and other items necessary to describe existing conditions and the
proposed project. The zoning administrator may require sufficient information
to determine the level of environmental review that shall be required pursuant
to the California environmental quality act and the city's adopted
environmental review guidelines. Unless otherwise specified, all renderings
shall depict the proposed structure, landscaping, other improvements, and
surrounding land uses as they would appear one month after project completion.
      3.   Availability Of Materials: All material submitted becomes the
property of the city, may be distributed to the public, and shall be made
available for public inspection. Upon reasonable request, and during normal
business hours, any person may examine an application and materials submitted
in support of or in opposition to an application in the community development
department. Unless barred by law, copies of such materials shall be made
available at a reasonable cost to be established by city council resolution.
      4.   Indemnification And Cost Recovery Agreement: Applicants shall submit
an executed indemnification agreement which indemnifies and holds the city
harmless from any action in connection with the project being reviewed and
commits to cost recovery relating to an appeal as well as all court costs
relating to legal challenges. Costs associated with implementing mitigation
monitoring shall be included in the agreement.
         a.   Failure or refusal by any or all of the applicant(s) to enter
into the indemnification and cost recovery agreement in favor of the city of
Porterville, in a form provided by the community development department,
planning division, shall result in and be deemed an abandonment of the
application and application approval, and all rights accrued to the applicant
(s) to proceed under the city's actions in such regard shall be deemed
immediately revoked, and the city will be entitled to seek all remedies
available to it under law, including, but not limited to, breach of contract
and/or enforcement of any code violations.
   C.   Payment And Waiver Of Application Fees:
      1.   Schedule Of Fees: The council shall establish fees for permits,
informational materials, copying, and other such items by resolution.
Applications for permits shall be accompanied by the required fees. Payment of
the fee is required in order for an application to be complete under the permit
streamlining act.
      2.   Fee Waiver: No fee shall be required when the applicant is the city,
or if it is waived under any other provision of the municipal code. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
601.03: PROJECT REVIEW:
Project review is a process that is intended to provide information on relevant
general or specific plan policies, zoning and subdivision regulations, and
procedures related to projects pursuant to this chapter.
   A.   Projects Requiring Project Review: Review is required for the following
projects:
      1.   All new commercial or industrial structures and additions of five
hundred (500) square feet or more;
      2.   Multi-family developments of four (4) or more units or consisting of
two (2) or more structures;
      3.   A change of occupancy as deemed necessary by the Chief Building
Official, or where the new occupant is in a different use classification than
the former occupant; and
      4.   Any project that requires a discretionary approval, including, but
not limited to: conditional use permits, variances, planned developments, mixed
use projects, zoning changes, general plan amendments, subdivisions, and
annexations.
      5.   Preliminary review of a map application.
   B.   Payment Of Fee: No application will be accepted for project review
without payment of a fee established by resolution of the city council and
submission of materials that the zoning administrator has determined necessary
to conduct such review.
   C.   Submittal Requirements: The applicant shall submit to the zoning
administrator nine (9) copies, or as may be determined necessary at the time of
submittal, of a preliminary map, site plan drawn to scale and dimensioned, and
other materials to indicate the essential characteristics of the project. For
tentative subdivisions, the preliminary map shall be in compliance with article
401, “Preliminary Map”, of this chapter.
   D.   Review: The zoning administrator will then, within twelve (12) days,
schedule a meeting of the project review committee with the applicant on the
proposed project. The project review committee will make such general
recommendations to the applicant as shall seem proper regarding such proposed
project and shall recommend consultations by the applicant with such other
public or private agencies as it shall designate.
   E.   Summary Of Recommendations: The project review committee shall furnish
written copies of its recommendations to the applicant.
   F.   Permit Streamlining Act: An application that is accepted for project
review shall not be considered complete pursuant to the requirements of the
California permit streamlining act unless it has been reviewed and determined
to be complete in compliance with the requirements of section
601.02, “Application Forms And Fees”, of this article. If an application
requires the submittal of an application(s) for discretionary permit approval,
the application will not be deemed complete until such time as a completed
application and fees are submitted for the discretionary review.
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013; amd. Ord. 1881, 4-6-2021)
601.04: REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS:
The zoning administrator shall determine whether an application is complete
within thirty (30) days of the date the application is filed with the required
fee.
   A.   Incomplete Application: If an application is incomplete, the zoning
administrator shall provide written notification to the applicant listing the
applications for permit(s), forms, information and any additional fees that are
necessary to complete the application.
   B.   Complete Application: When an application is determined to be complete,
the zoning administrator shall make a record of that date. If an application
requires a public hearing, the zoning administrator shall schedule it and
notify the applicant of the date and time.
   C.   Concurrent Processing: Applications requiring multiple approvals,
permits, adjustments, or entitlements under this chapter shall be heard and
acted upon at the same time. Those items requiring public notification shall be
notified together.
   D.   Extensions: The zoning administrator may, upon written request and to
provide reasonable accommodation, grant extensions of any time limit for review
of applications imposed by this chapter in compliance with applicable
provisions of state law. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
601.05: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:
Whenever the provisions of this series require public notice, notification
shall be provided in compliance with the requirements of state law and as
follows:
   A.   Mailed Notice: At least ten (10) days before the date of the public
hearing, the zoning administrator shall provide notice by first class mail
delivery to:
      1.   The applicant, the owner, and any occupant of the subject property;
      2.   All property owners of record within a three hundred foot (300')
radius of the subject property as shown on the latest available assessment
roll; and
      3.   Any person or group who has filed a written request for notice
regarding the specific application.
   B.   Newspaper Notice: At least ten (10) days before the date of the public
hearing, the zoning administrator shall provide notice by at least one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation published in the city.
   C.   Alternate Method For Large Mailings: If the number of owners to whom
notice would be mailed or delivered is greater than one thousand (1,000),
instead of mailed notice, the zoning administrator may provide notice by
placing a display advertisement of at least one-eighth (1/8) page in at least
one newspaper of general circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing.
   D.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall include the following information:
      1.   A general description of the proposed project or action and the
location of the real property, if any, that is the subject of the application;
      2.   The date, time, location, and purpose of the public hearing;
      3.   The identity of the hearing body;
      4.   The names of the applicant and the owner of the property that is the
subject of the application;
      5.   The location at which the complete application and project file may
be viewed by the public;
      6.   A statement that any interested person or authorized agent may
appear and be heard; and
      7.   A statement describing where to submit written comments.
   E.   Failure To Notify Individual Properties: The validity of the
proceedings shall not be affected by the failure of any property owner,
resident or interested party to receive such mailed notice.
   F.   Continuance Of Public Hearing: The body conducting the public hearing
may by motion continue the public hearing, even in the absence of a quorum, to
a fixed date, time and place, and no further notice shall be required as
prescribed by law. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
601.06: SCOPE OF APPROVALS:
   A.   Scope: An approval permits only those uses and activities actually
proposed in the application, and excludes other uses and activities. The
approved use and/or construction is subject to, and shall comply with, all
applicable city ordinances and laws and regulations of other governmental
agencies. Unless otherwise specified therein, any approval terminates all other
uses at the location subject to the approval.
   B.   Conditions Of Approval: Unless otherwise specified or required by the
zoning administrator or city council, the site plan, floor plans, building
elevations and/or any additional information or representations indicating the
proposed structure or manner of operation submitted with an application or
submitted during the approval process or by minute order shall be deemed
conditions of approval. Any approval may be subject to requirements that the
permittee guarantees, warranties or ensures that he will comply with permit's
plans and conditions in all respects.
   C.   Actions Voiding Approval: If the construction of a building or
structure or the use established is contrary to the description or illustration
in the application, so as to either violate any provision of this chapter or
require additional permits, then the approval shall be deemed null and void.
   D.   Periodic Review: All approvals may be subject to periodic review to
determine compliance with the permit and applicable conditions. If a condition
specifies that activities or uses allowed under the conditional use permit are
subject to periodic reporting, monitoring or assessments, it shall be the
responsibility of the permit holder, the property owner or successor property
owners to comply with such conditions. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
601.07: EFFECTIVE DATES:
A final decision on an application for any zoning administrator approval is
subject to appeal and shall not become effective until after the expiration of
the ten (10) day appeal period following the date of action. No building permit
or business license shall be issued until the eleventh day following the date
of the action. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
601.08: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION:
   A.   Expiration: The city council, in the granting of any permit, or the
zoning administrator, in the granting of any application, permit modification,
or adjustment, may specify the time within which the proposed use must be
undertaken and actively and continuously pursued. The city council or zoning
administrator may impose upon the permit a term of such period of time as is
found to be consistent with the purposes of the use and necessary to safeguard
the public safety, health and welfare. If no time period is otherwise
specified, any permit granted under this chapter may be declared lapsed and of
no further force and effect if it is not exercised or extended within two (2)
years of its issuance.
      1.   A permit for the use of a building or a property is exercised when,
if required, a valid city business license has been issued, and the permitted
use has commenced on the property.
      2.   A permit for the construction of a building or structure is
exercised when a valid city building permit, if required, is issued, and
construction has lawfully commenced.
   B.   Extensions: The city council may approve a one year extension of any
permit or approval granted under this chapter upon receipt of a written
application with the required fee before the permit expires. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-
2013)
601.09: MODIFICATION OF APPROVALS; CHANGED PLANS:
   A.   Modifications Of Approvals: The zoning administrator may approve minor
modifications to approved plans that are consistent with the original findings
and conditions approved by the city council and would not intensify any
potentially detrimental effects of the project.
   B.   Changed Plan: A request for changes in conditions of approval of a
discretionary permit or a change in an approved site plan or building plan that
would affect a condition of approval shall be treated as a new application,
except that such changes determined to be minor, in the opinion of the zoning
administrator, may be approved by the zoning administrator. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-
2013)
601.10: REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF APPROVALS:
Any permit granted under this article may be revoked or modified if any of the
conditions or terms of such permit are violated or if any law or ordinance is
violated in connection therewith. Notwithstanding this provision, no lawful
residential use can lapse regardless of the length of time of the vacancy.
   A.   Initiation Of Proceeding: The city council, by its own action, or
following a recommendation from the zoning administrator, may initiate
revocation or modification proceedings.
   B.   Public Notice: The zoning administrator shall give notice of the
hearing before the city council pursuant to the requirements of section
601.05, "Public Notification", of this article.
   C.   Public Hearing: The public hearing regarding the revocation or
modification of a conditional use permit or variance shall be conducted in the
same manner as for conditional use permits pursuant to article 604,
"Conditional Use Permits", of this series.
   D.   Decision Of The City Council: The city council may revoke the permit if
it makes any of the following findings:
      1.   That approval was obtained by means of fraud or misrepresentation of
a material fact;
      2.   That the use in question has ceased to exist or has been suspended
for one year or more;
      3.   That there is or has been a violation of or failure to observe the
terms or conditions of the permit or variance, or the use has been conducted in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, law or regulation; or
      4.   That the use to which the permit or variance applies has been
conducted in a manner detrimental to the public safety, health and welfare, or
so as to be a nuisance. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
601.11: APPEALS:
All final decisions of the zoning administrator may be appealed to the city
council pursuant to article 612, "Appeals", of this series. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-
2013)
ARTICLE 602. ZONING CONFORMANCE REVIEW
SECTION:
602.01: Purpose
602.02: Applicability
602.03: Procedures
602.04: Request For Other Zoning Administrator Determinations
602.01: PURPOSE:
This article establishes procedures for conducting zoning conformance review to
ensure that each new or expanded use or structure complies with the applicable
requirements of this chapter. Having made such determination, the zoning
administrator shall establish a record of the zoning conformance approval that
document the initial establishment of a use, or the construction of a
structure, which is allowed as a matter of right. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
602.02: APPLICABILITY:
Zoning conformance approval is required for buildings, structures, or signs
erected, constructed, altered, repaired or moved, the use of vacant land,
changes in the character of the use of land or building, or for substantial
expansions in the use of land or building, which are allowed as a matter of
right by this chapter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
602.03: PROCEDURES:
Prior to obtaining any business license, building permit, subdivision approval,
or lot line adjustment, the applicant shall request the zoning administrator to
determine whether the use, building, or change in lot configuration complies
with all provisions of this chapter or any conditional use permit or variance
approval issued pursuant to the ordinance's requirements and that all
conditions of such permits and approvals have been satisfied. The following
requirements apply to such determinations:
   A.   Application: Applications and fees for zoning conformance review shall
be submitted in accordance with the provisions set forth in section
601.02, "Application Forms And Fees", of this series. The zoning administrator
may request that the application be accompanied by plans and related materials
necessary to show that the proposed development, alteration, or use of the
property complies with all provisions of this chapter and the requirements and
conditions of any applicable conditional use permit or variance approval.
   B.   Determination: The zoning administrator shall determine whether the
development ordinance allows the proposed uses or structures by right.
   C.   Exceptions: No zoning certificate shall be required for the
continuation of previously approved or permitted uses and structures, uses and
structures that are not subject to any building or zoning regulations, or other
uses or buildings already subject to conditional use permits, variances, or
other discretionary approvals in the district in which they are located. (Ord.
1801, 12-3-2013)
602.04: REQUEST FOR OTHER ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DETERMINATIONS:
Requests for interpretations of this chapter, verifications of zoning
regulations, or verifications related to previous permits shall be made in
writing to the zoning administrator. Requests shall be accompanied by payment
of fees established in the city's adopted fee schedule. The zoning
administrator shall provide a zoning administrator determination in writing
within thirty (30) days of a complete submittal. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 603. HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
SECTION:
603.01: Purpose
603.02: Applicability
603.03: Decision Making Authority
603.04: Procedures
603.05: Appeals, Expiration And Extensions
603.01: PURPOSE:
This article describes the process and general requirements applicable to those
uses for which a hillside development permit or an administrative hillside
development permit is required by this chapter. These uses require special
consideration to ensure that they can be designed, located, and operated in a
manner that will not interfere with the use and enjoyment of surrounding
properties. The process for review of hillside development permit and
administrative hillside development permit applications is designed to evaluate
possible adverse impacts and to minimize them where possible through the
imposition of specific conditions or requirements. Approval of a hillside
development permit or an administrative hillside development permit requires
careful review of the location, design, configuration, and special impacts of a
proposed use to determine, against standards and criteria, the desirability of
permitting its establishment on a particular site.
   A.   Hillside Development Permits: No person shall grade, erect, or
construct into, over or on top of property within the HZ overlay district
without first obtaining a hillside development permit, except as otherwise
provided for in this article.
   B.   Administrative Hillside Development Permits: If no other development
permits are required by this chapter or other provisions of the municipal code,
then the property owner or duly authorized agent may submit an application for
an administrative hillside development permit. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
603.02: APPLICABILITY:
This article is applicable to uses or developments on properties within the
incorporated boundaries of the city of Porterville, as well as those properties
within the city's official sphere of influence, as may be amended from time to
time, that are designated hillside development zone on the general plan land
use diagram, except the activities listed below:
   A.   Construction that does not require a grading permit or a building
permit.
   B.   The construction and installation (trenching, utility construction, and
backfilling) of underground utility systems.
   C.   The regrading of existing yard areas for landscaping installation
provided such regraded yard area does not exceed two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet in area.
   D.   Swimming pools, spas, ponds, and associated hardscape and landscape
improvements that do not involve the construction of any retaining walls over
three feet (3') in height, subject to the issuance of a grading permit and
required building permits.
   E.   Additions to existing structures and/or construction of accessory
structures located entirely on the existing pad area and are less than five
hundred (500) square feet in area, unless a grading permit for establishment of
same is required.
   F.   Any project that has received final approval for construction prior to
the effective date hereof, provided that such permit or approval has not
expired or is not otherwise revoked. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
603.03: DECISION MAKING AUTHORITY:
   A.   Hillside Development Permit: The city council shall consider and render
a decision on any application for a hillside development permit.
   B.   Administrative Hillside Development Permit: The zoning administrator
shall consider and render a decision on any application for an administrative
hillside development permit.
   C.   Referral Of Application To City Council: The zoning administrator or
designee may, at his or her discretion, refer an application for an
administrative hillside development permit to the city council for a decision
rather than acting on it individually. In this case, the application shall be
processed as a hillside development permit. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
603.04: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Filing: Written applications for hillside development permits or
administrative hillside development permits shall be filed with the community
development department in accordance with the application procedures in article
601, "Common Procedures", of this series.
   B.   Review Procedures:
      1.   The zoning administrator shall review all applications within thirty
(30) days to determine if they are complete as provided for in article 601,
"Common Procedures", of this series. No application shall be deemed complete
until the applicant has applied for any conditional use permit, variance, or
other zoning or subdivision approval required pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   After determining that an application is complete, the zoning
administrator shall review the application for compliance with the applicable
HZ overlay district requirements.
      3.   After determining that an application is complete, if it is not
exempt from environmental review, the zoning administrator shall conduct the
hillside development review process concurrently with the required
environmental review. When a project requiring review by the city council is
subject to environmental review, the zoning administrator shall submit the
proposed negative declaration or environmental impact report to the city
council for review and action pursuant to CEQA requirements before the city
council takes action on the hillside development application. The application
for a hillside development permit should be processed concurrently with the
appropriate environmental document.
      4.   Hillside development permit:
         a.   The zoning administrator shall prepare a report and
recommendation.
         b.   If an application is exempt from environmental review and does
not otherwise require a hearing by the city council, a public hearing shall be
held before the city council within thirty (30) days of the date the
application is deemed complete.
         c.   No separate notice or public hearing is required for a hillside
development permit for a project that requires a conditional use permit,
variance, tentative map or other discretionary approval subject to a public
hearing by the city council.
      5.   Administrative hillside development permit:
         a.   The zoning administrator may conduct a public hearing for any
application that may be approved by the zoning administrator. The zoning
administrator shall act on a project with a complete application within thirty
(30) days of the date the application is received. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
603.05: APPEALS, EXPIRATION AND EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Appeals:
      1.   Administrative hillside development permits: The decision by the
zoning administrator is subject to the appeal provisions of article 612,
"Appeals", of this series.
      2.   Hillside development permits: The decision of the city council shall
be final.
   B.   Expiration And Extension: Hillside development permit and
administrative hillside development permit approvals are effective and may only
be extended or modified as provided for in article 601, "Common Procedures", of
this series. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 604. CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
604.01: Purpose
604.02: Applicability
604.03: Procedures
604.04: Required Findings
604.05: Conditions Of Approval
604.06: Decision; Expiration And Extensions; Modifications
604.01: PURPOSE:
This article describes the process and general requirements applicable to those
uses for which a conditional use permit is required. These uses require special
consideration to ensure that they can be designed, located, and operated in a
manner that will not interfere with the use and enjoyment of surrounding
properties. The process for review of conditional use permit applications is
designed to evaluate possible adverse impacts and to minimize them where
possible through the imposition of specific conditions. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
604.02: APPLICABILITY:
Conditional use permit approval is required for uses or developments
specifically identified in the series 200, "Base Districts", and 500, "Overlay
Districts", of this chapter or any other section of this chapter which requires
a conditional use permit. Some conditional uses that have been identified by
the city council to require less staff review time are titled "minor
conditional use permits", and such uses are identified in series 200, "Base
Districts", of this chapter. Minor conditional use permits shall conform to all
applicable criteria required of conditional use permits. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
604.03: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: Written applications for conditional use permits shall be
filed with the community development department in accordance with article 601,
"Common Procedures", of this series.
   B.   Public Hearing: Within thirty (30) days after determining that an
application is complete, the zoning administrator shall schedule a public
hearing before the city council. Notice shall be provided in compliance with
the requirements in article 601, "Common Procedures", of this series. (Ord.
1801, 12-3-2013)
604.04: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
A conditional use permit shall only be granted if the city council determines
that the project as submitted or as modified conforms to all of the following
criteria. If the city council determines that it is not possible to make all of
the required findings, the application shall be denied. The specific basis for
denial shall be established for the record.
   A.   Approval of the proposed project will advance the goals and objectives
of and is consistent with the policies of the general plan and any other
applicable plan that the city has adopted; and
   B.   The location, size, design, and operating characteristics of the
proposed project are consistent with the purposes of the district where it is
located and conforms in all significant respects with the general plan, this
development ordinance and with any other applicable plan adopted by the city
council. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
604.05: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   In approving a conditional use permit, the city council may impose
conditions reasonably related to the application and deemed necessary to
achieve the findings for a conditional use permit identified in section 604.04
of this article. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
604.06: DECISION; EXPIRATION AND EXTENSIONS; MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Decision: The decision of the council shall be final. The zoning
administrator shall cause a copy of its resolution to be mailed to the
applicant within ten (10) days from the date of adoption thereof.
   B.   Expiration, Extension, And Modifications: Conditional use permits are
effective and may only be extended or modified as provided for in article 601,
"Common Procedures", of this series. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 605. TEMPORARY USE PERMITS
SECTION:
605.01: Purpose
605.02: Applicability
605.03: Procedures
605.04: Required Findings
605.05: Conditions Of Approval
605.01: PURPOSE:
This article establishes a process for review and approval of certain uses that
are intended to be of limited duration of time and will not permanently alter
the character or physical facilities of the site where they occur. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
605.02: APPLICABILITY:
Temporary use permit approval is required for temporary uses as described in
section
301.19, "Temporary Uses", of this chapter. The zoning administrator may refer
an application for a temporary use permit to the city council if the zoning
administrator finds that the temporary use may have substantial and detrimental
impacts to surrounding land that warrant council review. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
605.03: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: Any person may apply to the zoning administrator for
approval of a temporary use not less than thirty (30) days before the use is
intended to begin in accordance with the provisions in article 601, "Common
Procedures", of this series.
   B.   Determination: Within ten (10) days of accepting an application for a
temporary use permit as complete, the zoning administrator shall render a
written decision. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
605.04: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
The zoning administrator may approve an application for a temporary use permit
to allow a temporary use for a period of time, only upon making all of the
following findings:
   A.   The proposed use will not unreasonably affect adjacent properties,
their owners and occupants, or the surrounding neighborhood, and will not in
any other way constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety,
peace, comfort, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the area
of such use or to the general welfare of the city;
   B.   The proposed use will not unreasonably interfere with pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or circulation in the area surrounding the proposed use, and
will not create a demand for additional parking that cannot be safely and
efficiently accommodated by existing parking areas; and
   C.   Appropriate controls are in place that will ensure the premises will be
kept clean, sanitary, and free of litter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
605.05: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
In approving a temporary use permit, the zoning administrator may impose any
conditions reasonably related to the application and deemed necessary to
achieve the findings for a temporary use permit listed in section
605.04 of this article. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 606. VARIANCES
SECTION:
606.01: Purpose
606.02: Procedures
606.03: Required Findings
606.04: Use Variances Prohibited
606.05: Conditions Of Approval
606.06: Decision; Expiration And Extensions; Modifications
606.01: PURPOSE:
This article is intended to provide a mechanism for relief from the strict
application of this chapter where strict application will deprive the property
owner of privileges enjoyed by similar properties because of the subject
property's unique and special conditions. Variances may be granted with respect
to dimensional and performance standards, but variances from the use
regulations of this chapter are not allowed. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
606.02: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: Applications for variances shall be filed in accordance
with article 601, "Common Procedures", of this series. In addition to any other
application requirements, the application for a variance shall include data or
other evidence supporting the proposed variance.
   B.   Public Notice And Hearing: All applications for variances shall require
public notice and a hearing before the city council pursuant to article 601,
"Common Procedures", of this series. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
606.03: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
A variance shall only be granted if the city council makes all of the following
findings:
   A.   There are special circumstances or conditions applicable to the
property such as its size, shape, topography, location, surroundings, or
existing structures, which do not apply generally to uses, land or structures
in the vicinity and same zoning district;
   B.   Due to the special circumstances applicable to this property, strict
application of the respective zoning regulation would deprive the property
owner of privileges enjoyed by other property owners in the same zoning
district;
   C.   Special circumstances applicable to the property were or are not self-
imposed by the property owner; and
   D.   The authorization of the variance will substantially meet the intent
and purpose of the zoning district in which the subject property is located and
will not be detrimental to persons residing or working in the vicinity, to
adjacent property, to the neighborhood, or the public welfare in general. (Ord.
1801, 12-3-2013)
606.04: USE VARIANCES PROHIBITED:
The city council shall not approve any changes in the uses permitted in any
zoning classification or zoning district or approve any modification of the
requirements of this chapter that would have the effect of allowing the
establishment of a use not otherwise permitted. This restriction shall not
affect the authority otherwise to grant variances pursuant to this article.
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
606.05: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   In approving a variance, the city council may impose reasonable
conditions necessary to ensure that the variance shall not constitute a grant
of special privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties
in the vicinity and zone in which the subject property is located. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
606.06: DECISION; EXPIRATION AND EXTENSIONS; MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Decision: The decision of the council shall be final. The zoning
administrator shall cause a copy of its resolution to be mailed to the
applicant within ten (10) days from the date of adoption thereof.
   B.   Expiration And Extension: Variances are effective and may only be
extended or modified as provided for in article 601, "Common Procedures", of
this series. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 607. AMENDMENTS TO GENERAL PLAN
SECTION:
607.01: Purpose
607.02: Applicability
607.03: Initiation Of Amendment
607.04: Application Requirements
607.05: Review Of Application And Determinations By Zoning Administrator
607.06: Public Hearing Scheduling
607.07: City Council Hearing And Action
607.01: PURPOSE:
This article establishes procedures for making changes to the general plan as
provided for in state law when there are compelling reasons to do so as a
result of changes in conditions or circumstances unforeseen at the time of
adoption or last amendment of the general plan. These circumstances include,
but are not limited to, changes in state or federal law and problems and
opportunities that were unanticipated at the time of adoption or last
amendment. This amendment process is not intended to relieve particular
hardships nor to confer special privileges or rights upon any person, but only
to make adjustments necessary in light of changed conditions or changes in
public policy. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
607.02: APPLICABILITY:
The procedures of this article shall apply to all proposals to change the text
of the general plan and the diagrams that illustrate the application of its
provisions. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
607.03: INITIATION OF AMENDMENT:
An amendment may be initiated by the city council or by application of any
interested person. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
607.04: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application: A qualified applicant shall submit an application for a
general plan amendment on a form prescribed by the zoning administrator
accompanied by the required fee. The zoning administrator may require an
applicant to submit such additional information and supporting data as
considered necessary to process the application.
   B.   Coordination With Other Applications: Related applications to be
processed concurrently unless the zoning administrator shall otherwise allow
any necessary applications for amendments to zoning regulations or for approval
of discretionary permits, to be processed simultaneously with the proposed
general plan amendment. However, an application for a general plan amendment is
not considered to be a development project and so the approval of any
associated discretionary permit shall not be subject to the time limits
specified in state law for processing such applications until the council
approves the general plan amendment and any necessary amendments to this
chapter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
607.05: REVIEW OF APPLICATION AND DETERMINATIONS BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
After determining that an application is complete and environmental review has
been conducted, the zoning administrator shall prepare a report and
recommendation to the city council on the application for a general plan
amendment. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
607.06: PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULING:
The zoning administrator shall schedule the application for hearing by the city
council in accordance with the council's schedule for considering general plan
amendments. Notice shall be provided in accordance with article 601, "Common
Procedures", of this series. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
607.07: CITY COUNCIL HEARING AND ACTION:
   A.   Hearing: The city council shall conduct a public hearing in conformance
with the provisions of article 601, "Common Procedures", of this series.
   B.   Action: After the conclusion of the hearing, the city council may
approve, modify or disapprove the proposed general plan amendment. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 608. AMENDMENTS TO ZONING MAP AND TEXT
SECTION:
608.01: Purpose
608.02: Applicability
608.03: Initiation Of Amendment
608.04: Application Requirements
608.05: Review Of Application And Determinations By Zoning Administrator
608.06: City Council Hearing And Action
608.01: PURPOSE:
This article provides procedures by which changes may be made to the text of
this chapter and to the zoning map. The zoning amendment process is not
intended to relieve particular hardships nor to confer special privileges or
rights upon any person, but only to make adjustments necessary in light of
changed conditions or changes in public policy. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
608.02: APPLICABILITY:
The procedures in this article shall apply to all proposals to change the text
of this chapter or to revise a zoning district classification or zoning
district boundary line shown on the zoning map. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
608.03: INITIATION OF AMENDMENT:
An amendment may be initiated by the city council or by application of any
interested person. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
608.04: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application: A qualified applicant shall submit an application for a
zoning amendment on a form prescribed by the zoning administrator accompanied
by the required fee. The zoning administrator may require an applicant to
submit such additional information and supporting data as considered necessary
to process the application.
   B.   Coordination With Other Applications: Related applications to be
processed concurrently unless the zoning administrator shall otherwise allow
any necessary applications for amendments to zoning regulations or for approval
of discretionary permits, to be processed simultaneously with the proposed
zoning amendment. However, an application for a zoning amendment is not
considered to be a development project and so the approval of any associated
discretionary permits shall not be subject to the time limits specified in
state law for processing such applications until the council approves the
zoning amendment. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
608.05: REVIEW OF APPLICATION AND DETERMINATIONS BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
After determining that an application is complete and environmental review has
been conducted, the zoning administrator shall prepare a report and
recommendation to the city council on the application for a zoning amendment.
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
608.06: CITY COUNCIL HEARING AND ACTION:
   A.   Hearing: The city council shall conduct a public hearing in conformance
with the provisions of article 601, "Common Procedures", of this series.
   B.   Action: After the conclusion of the hearing, the city council may
approve, modify or disapprove the proposed zoning amendment. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-
2013)
ARTICLE 609. DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
609.01: Purpose
609.02: Objective
609.03: Requirements
609.04: Contents
609.05: Application
609.06: Hearings And Notice
609.07: Report And Findings
609.08: Action Of City Council
609.09: Initiation Of Amendment Or Cancellation
609.10: Recordation
609.11: Review
609.01: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide a mechanism that assures the
applicant of a development project that upon approval, the applicant may
proceed with the project in accordance with existing policies, rules and
regulations, and conditions that were applicable at the time of project
approval, and in a manner consistent with section 65864 et seq., of the
Government Code. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
609.02: OBJECTIVE:
The objective of a development agreement is to strengthen the public planning
process, encourage private participation in comprehensive planning, reduce the
economic costs of development and promote the construction of public
improvements by the private sector by providing for provisions in the agreement
whereby the applicant is reimbursed over time for the financing of the public
improvements. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
609.03: REQUIREMENTS:
To enter into a development agreement, the city shall find that:
   A.   A person has a legal or equitable interest in real property for the
development of such property; and
   B.   The development project is consistent with the general plan and any
applicable specific plan. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
609.04: CONTENTS:
A development agreement shall specify the duration of the agreement, the
permitted uses of the property, the density or intensity of use, the maximum
height and size of proposed buildings, and provisions for reservation or
dedication of land or facilities for public purposes. The development agreement
may include conditions, terms, restrictions, and requirements for subsequent
discretionary actions, provided that such conditions, terms, restrictions, and
requirements shall not prevent development of the land for uses and to the
density or intensity of development set forth in the agreement. The agreement
may require that construction shall be commenced within a specified time and
that the project or any phase thereof be completed within a specified time.
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
609.05: APPLICATION:
An application for a development agreement shall be made to the zoning
administrator on a form prescribed by the department. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee set by resolution of the city council and will be
processed in conjunction with other associated discretionary permits. (Ord.
1801, 12-3-2013)
609.06: HEARINGS AND NOTICE:
Upon receipt of a development agreement application, the zoning administrator
shall initiate and notice the public hearing pursuant to the provisions of
article 601, "Common Procedures", of this series. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
609.07: REPORT AND FINDINGS:
The zoning administrator shall prepare a report on the development agreement
application and provide a recommendation to the city council based on the
following findings:
   A.   The project is consistent with the general plan and any applicable
specific plan.
   B.   The project is authorized by the ordinance as it relates to use and
development standard regulations.
   C.   The project will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and
general welfare.
   D.   The project will provide sufficient benefit to the city to justify
entering into the development agreement.
   E.   The project will not have a significant impact on the environment.
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
609.08: ACTION OF CITY COUNCIL:
Following a public hearing, the city council shall consider staff's
recommendation and shall take action on the development agreement. The council
can approve, approve with modifications or deny the development agreement. If
the council approves or approves with modification the development agreement,
it shall initiate proceedings to adopt an ordinance. After the ordinance takes
effect, the city may enter into the agreement with the applicant. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
609.09: INITIATION OF AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION:
Either party may propose an amendment to or cancellation in whole or in part of
the development agreement previously entered into. If proposed by the
applicant, the procedure shall be the same as the procedure for entering into
an agreement. However, where the city council initiates the proposed amendment
to or cancellation of the development agreement, it shall first give at least
thirty (30) days' notice to the applicant of its intention to initiate such
proceedings in advance of giving notice of the public hearing. (Ord. 1801, 12-
3-2013)
609.10: RECORDATION:
   A.   Within ten (10) days after the city enters into the development
agreement, the city shall have the agreement recorded with the county recorder.
   B.   If the parties to the agreement or their successors in interest amend
or cancel the agreement, or if the city terminates or modifies the agreement
for failure of the applicant to comply in good faith with the terms or
conditions of the agreement, the city shall have notice of such action recorded
with the county recorder. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
609.11: REVIEW:
   A.   The zoning administrator shall review the development agreement at
least once every twelve (12) months from the date the agreement is entered
into. The community development department shall report the findings to the
city council. The time for review may be modified by agreement between the
parties.
   B.   Should the zoning administrator find that the developer is in
noncompliance or not performing consistent with the development agreement, the
director shall report this finding to the city council. The city council may
terminate the development agreement consistent with section 609.09, "Initiation
Of Amendment Or Cancellation", of this article. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 610. ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
610.01: Purpose And Applicability
610.02: Procedures
610.03: Required Findings
610.01: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
This article establishes a process for making and acting upon requests for
reasonable accommodation to provide an alternate means of granting relief from
this chapter's requirements when so doing would be consistent with this
chapter's objectives. It is the policy of the city to comply with the federal
fair housing act, the Americans with disabilities act and the California fair
employment and housing act to provide reasonable accommodation by modifying the
application of its zoning and subdivision regulations for persons with
disabilities seeking fair access to housing. This article authorizes the zoning
administrator to grant administrative relief from this chapter's dimensional
requirements to achieve these and other objectives and also allows the city
council to grant adjustments when necessary to accommodate uses protected by
state or federal law. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
610.02: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: An application for relief shall be filed with the zoning
administrator in accordance with article 601, "Common Procedures", of this
series. The application shall state in writing the nature of the adjustment
requested and explain why the findings necessary to grant the adjustment are
satisfied. The applicant shall also submit plans delineating the requested
adjustment.
   B.   Relief Granted By The Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator
may grant relief from the dimensional requirements specified in this chapter to
the following extent:
      1.   Setbacks: Front and rear yard setback adjustments not exceeding two
feet (2'). Side yard setback adjustments not exceeding one foot (1').
      2.   Building Site Coverage: Building site coverage adjustments not
exceeding five percent (5%).
      3.   Height: Maximum building height or other height limitations not
exceeding five feet (5').
   C.   Referral To City Council: The zoning administrator may refer to the
city council any request for an adjustment necessary to comply with the
reasonable accommodation provisions of federal law based on a determination
that there is a compelling public interest requiring such an accommodation.
   D.   Concurrent Processing: If a request for relief is being submitted in
conjunction with an application for another approval, permit, or entitlement
under this chapter, it shall be heard and acted upon at the same time and in
the same manner as that application. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
610.03: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   Findings For Approval: A decision to grant an adjustment shall be based
on the following findings, supported by information in the record:
      1.   The adjustment is necessary due to the physical characteristics of
the property and the proposed use or structure or other circumstances,
including, but not limited to, topography, noise exposure, irregular property
boundaries, or other unusual circumstance;
      2.   The granting of the requested adjustment would not be detrimental to
the health or safety of the public or the occupants of the property or result
in a change in land use or density that would be inconsistent with the
requirements of this chapter; and
      3.   The granting of the adjustment will substantially meet or advance
the intent and purpose of the zoning district in which the subject property is
located.
   B.   Additional Finding For Reasonable Accommodations: If the adjustment
requested is to provide reasonable accommodation pursuant to federal or state
statute, the responsible decision maker must find that denial of the requested
adjustment would impose a substantial burden on religious exercise or would
conflict with any federal or state statute requiring reasonable accommodation
of persons with disabilities. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 611. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
SECTION:
611.01: Purpose
611.02: Procedures
611.03: Mitigation Monitoring And Reporting Program
611.04: Preparation Of Environmental Documents By Consultants (Rep. by Ord.
1916, 8-19-2025)
611.01: PURPOSE:
This article establishes procedures for conducting environmental review to meet
requirements of the California environmental quality act (CEQA) and the
national environmental policy act (NEPA). These provisions are intended to
ensure that responsible decision makers and the public are informed about the
potentially significant environmental effects of proposed activities and that
environmental review is integrated with the discretionary review provisions
that this article establishes to promote incorporation of environmental
considerations into the design, planning, and review of projects. These
procedures apply to all projects sponsored or assisted by the city and to all
private projects requiring any discretionary approvals from the city. In the
event of a conflict between these environmental review regulations and
applicable federal or state regulations or guidelines, the applicable federal
or state regulations shall prevail. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
611.02: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Filing Of Forms: Concurrent with the submittal of project applications,
the applicant shall prepare and file an environmental information form and
project plans with the community development department.
   B.   Preliminary Review: Within thirty (30) days after receiving an
application, the zoning administrator shall conduct a preliminary environmental
review. As part of this review, the zoning administrator will identify issues
to help decide if the applicant proposes a project that is subject to
environmental review and may require the applicant to submit additional
information needed to support this determination.
   C.   Preparation And Processing Environmental Documents: A determination of
the appropriate level of environmental review by the zoning administrator shall
trigger the preparation of an environmental document in compliance with the
most current regulations and guidelines of the environmental quality act,
whether it be exempt from CEQA, require negative declaration, mitigated
negative declaration or an environmental impact report (EIR). Further, in
concert with the requirements of an applicable federal agency(ies), the zoning
administrator will cause to have prepared the appropriate NEPA environmental
documentation.
   D.   Review For Exemption:
      1.   Determinations of exemption shall be made within thirty (30) days of
the date the application is deemed complete.
      2.   If the zoning administrator has determined that a project is exempt
from environmental review under CEQA, such determination shall be announced in
any required public notice for discretionary permits. The notice shall include
a citation to the CEQA guidelines or CEQA section under which it is found to be
exempt.
      3.   Following approval of a project that is exempt from CEQA review, a
notice of exemption shall be filed with the county clerk as provided for in
CEQA and the applicable state and city guidelines.
      4.   A determination of exemption by any decision making authority other
than the city council may be appealed to the city council in the same manner
provided in article 612, "Appeals", of this series.
   E.   Initial Study: If the proposed project is subject to CEQA and is not
exempt from environmental review, an initial study shall be prepared in
compliance with CEQA and local CEQA guidelines.
   F.   Determination Of Environmental Significance: Based on the initial
study, the zoning administrator will make one of the following findings:
      1.   The project will have "no significant impacts" on the environment,
and a negative declaration will be prepared;
      2.   The project has been modified or mitigation measures have been
incorporated to mitigate potential environmental impacts to a level of
insignificance and a mitigated negative declaration will be prepared; or
      3.   The proposed project will have, or may have, significant impact(s)
that may not be mitigated, and an EIR will be required.
   G.   Environmental Determination: If the zoning administrator has determined
that the proposed project will not have a significant effect on the
environment, a negative declaration shall be prepared for public review in
conformance with the requirements of CEQA and applicable state and city
environmental review guidelines.
   H.   Public Notice Of Environmental Determination: The zoning administrator
shall provide public notice of the proposed environmental determination in a
newspaper of general circulation, at city hall, and with the county clerk.
   I.   The project applicant shall be responsible for the full cost of the
environmental review process. If the city planning division is unable to
prepare an environmental document or technical study for a public or private
project, a qualified consultant shall be contracted for preparation of the
appropriate environmental documents including technical studies. The city has
undertaken the negotiation of and maintains an on call environmental consultant
for use on city projects with defined funding sources, and for use by private
development proponents in the event they desire to streamline the process. For
preparation of environmental review documents, including preparation by
consultants, further selection procedures including qualifications and other
criteria shall be set forth in policy(ies) adopted by Resolution. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013; amd. Ord. 1916, 8-19-2025)
611.03: MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM:
   A.   Program Contents: The city shall approve a mitigation monitoring and
reporting program (MMRP) for all projects that it approves with a mitigated
negative declaration or in conjunction with certification of a final EIR and
compliance with CEQA.
   B.   Enforcement: Failure to comply with the conditions and requirements of
an approved MMRP shall be considered a violation of the conditions of approval
of a project. Such violations shall be subject to enforcement in accordance
with the provisions of article 613, "Enforcement", of this series.
   C.   Modification Of Mitigation Program Not Permitted Following Adoption:
Unless specifically authorized or required by the conditions of project
approval, neither CEQA nor this article authorize the city to modify or add
mitigation measures if the monitoring program shows that the mitigation
measures have not achieved the desired result. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
611.04: PREPARATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS BY CONSULTANTS: (Rep. by Ord.
1916, 8-19-2025)
ARTICLE 612. APPEALS
SECTION:
612.01: Purpose
612.02: Rights Of Appeal
612.03: Time Limits
612.04: Procedures
612.05: Standards Of Review
612.01: PURPOSE:
This article establishes uniform procedures for appeals of final decisions by
the zoning administrator, city engineer or parcel map committee. (Ord. 1801,
12-3-2013)
612.02: RIGHTS OF APPEAL:
Appeals may be filed by the applicant, by the owner of property, or by any
other person aggrieved by a decision that is subject to appeal under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
612.03: TIME LIMITS:
Unless otherwise specified in state or federal law, all appeals shall be filed
with the city clerk in writing within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the
action. In the event an appeal period ends on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday
observed by the city, the appeal period shall end at the close of business on
the next consecutive business day. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
612.04: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Proceedings Stayed By Appeal: The timely filing of an appeal shall stay
all proceedings in the matter appealed including, but not limited to, the
issuance of city building permits and business licenses.
   B.   Filing An Appeal: All final decisions of the zoning administrator, city
engineer or parcel map committee may be appealed to the city council by filing
a written appeal with the city clerk accompanied by the required fee. The
notice of appeal shall set forth, in concise language, the following:
      1.   Date of appeal;
      2.   Name of appellant and the individual representing appellant;
      3.   Address to which notices shall be sent;
      4.   Telephone number of representative;
      5.   Name of applicant, if different from appellant;
      6.   Action or decision being appealed and the date of such action or
decision;
      7.   Address and description of real property involved; and
      8.   Grounds for appeal.
   C.   Transmission Of Record: The city clerk shall schedule the appeal for
consideration by the city council within thirty (30) days of the date the
appeal was filed. The zoning administrator shall forward the appeal, the notice
of action, and all other documents that constitute the record to the city
council. The zoning administrator shall also prepare a staff report that
responds to the issues raised by the appeal and may include a recommendation
for action.
   D.   Public Notice: In addition to providing notice in the same manner
required for the action that was the subject of the appeal, the city clerk
shall provide notice to all persons who spoke on the matter at any prior
hearings on the same matter. Notice to such persons shall be mailed only if
they provided their names and addresses at the time they spoke at the prior
hearing.
   E.   City Council Action: The city council shall review the appeal, the
record, and any written correspondence submitted after the appeal has been
filed, and may take one of the following actions:
      1.   Conduct a public hearing; or
      2.   Remand the matter to the zoning administrator to cure a deficiency
in the record or proceedings.
   F.   City Council Decision: The city council shall render its decision
within thirty (30) days of the date the hearing is closed unless state law
requires a shorter deadline.
   G.   Council Action In Lieu Of Appeal: The city council may call up for
review and a public hearing any action of the zoning administrator within ten
(10) days of the decision. Such action by the council shall stay all
proceedings in the same manner as the filing of an appeal. Such action shall
not require any statement of reasons and shall not represent opposition to or
support of an application or appeal. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
612.05: STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
When reviewing any decision on appeal, the city council shall use the same
standards and criteria for decision making required for the original decision.
The city council may adopt the same decision and findings as were originally
approved. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
ARTICLE 613. ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
613.01: Purpose
613.02: Enforcement Responsibilities
613.03: Public Nuisance Defined
613.04: Violations And Penalties
613.05: Remedies
613.01: PURPOSE:
This article establishes the responsibilities of various departments, officials
and public employees of the city to enforce the requirements of this chapter
and sets forth the procedures the city will use to identify, abate, remove, and
enjoin those uses, structures, buildings, or properties that are deemed to be
in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
613.02: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES:
All departments, officials, and public employees of the city, vested with the
duty or authority to issue permits or licenses, shall conform to the provisions
of this chapter, and shall issue no permit or license for uses, buildings, or
purposes in conflict with the provisions of this chapter; and any such permit
or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be null
and void. The following officials, departments, and employees have specific
responsibilities as follows:
   A.   Zoning Administrator:
      1.   Shall enforce all provisions of this chapter related to issuance of
discretionary permits and shall have responsibility for ordering the correction
of violations and initiating the revocation of discretionary permits pursuant
to section 601.10, "Revocation Or Modification Of Approvals", of this series,
and the abatement of nuisances as defined in this article.
      2.   Shall prior to issuance of building permits, ascertain that plans
presented with the building permit application conform to those approved
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Shall enforce all provisions of this chapter pertaining to the use,
erection, construction, reconstruction, relocation, conversion, alteration, or
addition to any building or structure and condition of approval of use permits,
variances, nuisance abatements, or other discretionary approvals. The zoning
administrator is hereby authorized to cause to be stopped any work or use
undertaken without or contrary to approval granted pursuant to this chapter or
in violation of any of its other provisions.
   B.   City Attorney: The city attorney may, at his or her discretion or upon
order of the council, immediately commence action or proceedings for the
abatement and removal and enjoinment of violations in the manner provided by
law, and may take such other steps and may apply to such courts as may have
jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate and remove such use, or
building or structure, and may seek to restrain and enjoin any person, firm or
corporation from such use of any property, building or structure, or from
setting up, erecting, building, maintaining or demolishing any such building or
structure contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
613.03: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
Any use, event, building or structure that violates any provision of this
chapter or any other city, state, or federal regulation, ordinance, or statute
shall be deemed a public nuisance. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
613.04: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter is subject to any and all applicable provisions of the municipal code,
including, but not limited to, the general penalty provisions specified at
section
1-9 of the municipal code.
   B.   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter may be subject to the administrative citation procedure pursuant
to
chapter 2, article XIV of the municipal code. These procedures are in addition
to other applicable remedies established in the municipal code.
   C.   Notwithstanding the applicable fines specified in
chapter 2, article XIV of the municipal code, any nuisance associated with a
use allowed by a discretionary permit (i.e., conditional use permit, etc.) as
set forth in this code, may be subject to an administrative fine as follows:
      1.   First offense: Not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Second offense: Not more than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00).
      3.   Third offense: Not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
(Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
613.05: REMEDIES:
Upon a finding of nuisance pursuant to this article, and after giving the
property owner an opportunity to cure the nuisance (i.e., courtesy notice or
notice of violation) and determining that the nuisance still exists, the zoning
administrator shall submit the item to the code compliance officer for recourse
outlined in the municipal code who may impose any remedy available at law or in
equity. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
SERIES 700. GENERAL TERMS
ARTICLE 700. LIST OF TERMS AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
700.01: List Of Terms
700.02: Definitions
700.01: LIST OF TERMS:
ARC districts (agriculture/rural/conservation districts)
Abutting or adjoining
Accessory building
Accessory structure
Accessory use
Acre, gross
Acre, net
Adjacent
Affordable housing terms
   Additional incentive
   Affordable rent
   Affordable sales price
   Density bonus
   Density bonus units
   Economically feasible
   Housing cost
   Lower income household
   Maximum residential density
   Moderate income household
   Regulatory agreement
   Senior citizen
   Senior citizen housing development
   Target unit
   Very low income household
Aggrieved person
Alley
Alteration
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA)
Animal-related terms
Household pet
Livestock
Area, gross
Balcony
Base district
Bedroom
Bicycle parking, long-term
Bicycle parking, short-term
Block
Blockface
Building
Building, accessory
Building footprint
Building front
Building height
Building, main
C districts (commercial districts)
California Building Code (CBC)
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
Carport
City
City Council
City Engineer
Code Enforcement Officer
Commercial vehicle
Community Development Director
Compatible
Condition of use
Conditionally permitted
Construction
Conversion
County
Crew quarters
D districts (downtown districts)
Deck
Demolition
Density
Development
Development agreement
Development ordinance
District
Double frontage lot
Drive-through facilities
Driveway
Dwelling unit
Easement
Effective date
Emergency
Engineering and Project Management Director
Environmental Impact Report (EIR)
Facade
Family
Feasible
Fence
Floor area
Floor area ratio
Foot-candle
Footprint
Freeway
Frontage, street (frontage, lot)
Garage
General Plan
Glare
Gross leasable area
Ground floor
Habitable area
Hazardous materials
Heat
Height
Home occupation
Household
Illegal use
In-lieu fees
Intensity of use
International Building Code
Intersection, street
Kitchen
Land division terms
   Abut
   Access, approved
   Adjoin
   Applicant
   Arterial
   Block
   Centerline
   Collector street
   Community apartment project
   Condominium
   Condominium project
   Conversion
   Cul-de-sac
   Design
   Final Map
   Flood or flooding
   Frontage road
   Improvements
   Industrial street
   Local street
   Lot line adjustment
   Map Act
   Merger
   Minor street
   Parcel
   Parcel Map
   Preliminary Map
   Private street
   Public improvement
   Remainder
   Standard plans and specifications
   Stock cooperative
   Subdivider
   Subdivision
   Subdivision design
   Tentative Map
   Tentative Parcel Map
   Vesting Tentative Map
Landscaping
Landscaping terms
   Anti-drain or check valve
   Automatic controller
   Backflow prevention device
   Controller
   Emitter
   Hydrozone
   Irrigation efficiency
   Operating pressure
   Overspray
   Runoff
Lighting terms
   Foot-candle
   Light fixture
   Light fixture cutoff
   Full cutoff
   Cutoff
   Semi-cutoff
   Non-cutoff
   Shielded fixture
Living room
Long-term parking
Lot
   Lot area
   Lot coverage
   Lot depth
   Lot frontage
   Lot line
   Lot line types
   Front lot line
   Interior lot line
   Rear lot line
   Side lot line
   Street side lot line
Lot types
   Lot, corner
   Lot, flag
   Lot, interior
   Lot, key
   Lot, reversed corner
   Lot, through
   Lot width
Maintenance and repair
Manufactured home
Mobile home
Noise terms
   Ambient noise level
   Decibel
   Mobile noise source
Noise
Noise level reduction (NLR)
Nonconforming use and development terms
   Abandoned
   Illegal nonconforming building or use
Nonconforming building or structure
Nonconforming lot
Nonconforming sign
Nonconforming use
Nuisance
Occupancy, change in
On-site
On-site loading facilities
Open space types
   Common open space
   Private open space
   Usable open space
Opposite
Outdoor storage
Owner
Parking area
Permit
Permitted use
Person
Persons with disabilities
Porch
Pre-existing
Project
Public Works Director
Qualified applicant
Queuing area
R district (residential district)
Recreational vehicle
Redevelopment Agency
Rescission
Right-of-way
Screening
Setback
Sexually oriented business terms (see section
301.17, "Sexually Oriented Businesses", of this chapter)
Sidewalk
Sign-related terms
   Abandoned sign
   Animated sign
   Area of sign
   Awning sign
   Balloon
   Banner
   Building frontage
   Building-mounted sign
   Can sign (box sign)
   Canopy
   Center identification sign
   Changeable copy sign
   Channel letters
   Construction sign
   Directional sign
   Electronic message center sign
   Fence sign
   Flag
   Freestanding sign
   Height
   Identifiable area
   Identification sign
   Illegal sign
   Illuminated sign
   Inflatable sign
   Logo
   Mansard
   Marquee sign
   Master Sign Program
   Monument sign
   Neon sign
   New subdivision
   Off-site advertising sign
   Off-site directional sign
   Parapet
   Pennant
   Pole sign
   Political sign
   Portable sign
   Projecting sign
   Real estate sign
   Roof sign
   Sign
   Sign area
   Sign copy
   Sign face
   Temporary sign
   Vehicle display sign
   Vehicle for sale sign
   Wall sign
   Window sign
Site
Specific plan
State
Story
Street
Strip mall
Structural alteration
Structure
   Accessory structure
   Permanent structure
   Primary structure (main structure)
   Temporary structure
Swimming pool
Tandem parking
Telecommunication terms
   Amateur radio antenna
   Antenna
   Camouflage
   Co-location
   Communication tower
   Ground mounted
   Monopole
   Wireless telecommunications facility
Temporary uses
   Garage sales
   Model homes
   Outdoor sales, temporary and seasonal
Unit
Use
   Use, accessory
      Use, primary
Use, sensitive
Variance
Vibration
Visible
Weekday
Yard
   Front yard
   Interior side yard
   Rear yard
   Street side yard
Zoning Administrator
Zoning district (Ord. 1843, 11-7-2017; amd. Ord. 1873, 6-2-2020)
700.02: DEFINITIONS:
   ARC DISTRICTS (AGRICULTURE/RURAL/CONSERVATION DISTRICTS): One or more of the
following districts: AC Agriculture/Conservation or RR Rural Residential.
   ABUTTING OR ADJOINING: Having a common border, boundary, or lot line. Lots
or parcels of land that touch at corners only shall not be deemed adjoining.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: See definition of building, accessory.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: See definition of structure: accessory structure.
   ACCESSORY USE: See definition of use, accessory.
   ACRE, GROSS: A measure of total land area of a lot or site, including areas
to be dedicated for public rights-of-way, streets, schools, or other
dedications.
   ACRE, NET: A measure of land area of a lot or site remaining after
dedication of all areas for public rights-of-way, streets, schools, or other
dedications.
   ADJACENT: Directly abutting, having a boundary or property line(s) in common
or bordering directly, or contiguous to.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING TERMS: The following terms are related to article 302,
"Affordable Housing Density Bonus And Other Incentives", of this chapter.
      Additional Incentive: A benefit offered by the City to facilitate
construction of eligible projects as defined by the provisions of article 302
of this chapter. Benefits may include, but are not limited to, priority
processing, fee deferments and waivers, the modification of site development
standards or requirements of this chapter, or any other regulatory incentive
which would result in identifiable cost avoidance or reductions that are
offered in addition to a density bonus.
      Affordable Rent: Monthly housing expenses, including a reasonable
allowance for utilities, for rental target units reserved for very low, lower
or moderate income households, not exceeding the following calculations:
         A.   Very Low Income: Fifty percent (50%) of the area median income
for the County, adjusted for household size, multiplied by thirty percent (30%)
and divided by twelve (12); and
         B.   Lower Income: Sixty percent (60%) of the area median income for
the County, adjusted for household size, multiplied by thirty percent (30%) and
divided by twelve (12).
      Affordable Sales Price: A sales price at which lower or very low income
households can qualify for the purchase of target units, calculated on the
basis of underwriting standards of mortgage financing available for
development.
      Density Bonus: A minimum increase in the number of dwelling units
authorized for a particular parcel of land of at least twenty five percent
(25%) over the otherwise maximum residential density.
      Density Bonus Units: Residential units granted pursuant to the provisions
of article 302, "Affordable Housing Density Bonus And Other Incentives", of
this chapter, which exceed the otherwise maximum residential density for the
development site.
      Economically Feasible: Economically feasible means when a housing project
can be built with a reasonable rate of return. The housing developer's
financial ability to build the project shall not be a factor.
      Household Type: Type of household classified according to whether the
occupants of the housing units are very low income, lower income, or senior
citizens.
      Housing Cost: The sum of actual or projected monthly payments for all of
the following associated with for-sale target units: principal and interest on
a mortgage loan, including any loan insurance fees, property taxes and
assessments, fire and casualty insurance, property maintenance and repairs,
homeowners' association fees, and a reasonable allowance for utilities.
      Lower Income Household: A household whose gross income is as established
by Health and Safety Code section 50079.5.
      Maximum Residential Density: The maximum number of residential units
allowed by the General Plan range specified on the land use map of the City's
General Plan.
      Moderate Income Household: A household whose gross income is as
established by Health and Safety Code section 50093.
      Regulatory Agreement: A legally binding agreement between a developer and
the City to ensure that the requirements of article 302, "Affordable Housing
Density Bonus And Other Incentives", of this chapter are satisfied. The
agreement, among other things, shall establish: the number of target units,
their size, location, terms, and conditions of affordability, and production
schedule.
      Senior Citizen: Persons who are:
      A.   At least sixty two (62) years of age; or
      B.   At least fifty five (55) years of age in a senior citizen housing
development, as defined by State and Federal law.
      Senior Citizen Housing Development: Residential development of one of the
following types:
      A.   Assisted housing units for senior citizens; or
      B.   Housing intended for, and solely occupied by, persons at least sixty
two (62) years of age; or
      C.   Housing consisting of at least one hundred fifty (150) units in
which eighty percent (80%) of the units have at least one person aged fifty
five (55) or older and which provide special facilities and services designed
for seniors. Eligibility for a density bonus or other incentive for senior
citizen units must be in conformity with State and Federal laws governing
senior housing projects.
      Target Unit: A dwelling unit within a housing development which will be
reserved for sale or rent to, and affordable to, very low, lower or moderate
income, or senior citizen households.
      Very Low Income Household: A household whose gross income is as
established by Health and Safety Code section 50105.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON: Any person who, in person or through a representative,
appeared at a City public hearing in conjunction with a decision or action
appealed or who, by other appropriate means prior to a hearing, informed the
local government of the nature of his or her concerns or who, for good cause,
was unable to do either.
   ALLEY: A public way permanently reserved primarily for secondary vehicular
service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
   ALTERATION: Any change, addition or modification that changes the exterior
architectural appearance or materials of a structure or object. Alteration
includes changes in exterior surfaces, changes in materials, additions,
remodels, demolitions, and relocation of buildings or structures, but excludes
ordinary maintenance and repairs. See also the definition of "structural
alterations" for modifications to any of the supporting members of a structure.
   AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA): United States Public Law 101-336, 104
Stat. 327 (July 26, 1990), codified at 42 USC section 12101 et seq.
   AREA, GROSS: The horizontal area within the boundaries of a lot or site
including any area for future streets, parks, and other dedications.
   BALCONY: A platform that projects from the wall of a building thirty inches
(30") or more above grade.
   BASE DISTRICT: A zoning district that includes use, height, bulk, space, and
development standards for the regulation of development in a particular area.
   BEDROOM: Any room located within a dwelling unit that is used primarily for
sleeping purposes by its residents and that contains at least seventy (70)
square feet of floor area. Rooms designated as a "den", "library", "study",
"loft" or other extra room that satisfies this definition and is not a kitchen,
living room, or bath will be considered a bedroom.
   BICYCLE PARKING, LONG-TERM: Bicycle parking that is designed to serve
employees, students, residents, commuters, and others who generally stay at a
site for four (4) hours or longer.
   BICYCLE PARKING, SHORT-TERM: Bicycle parking that is designed to serve
shoppers, customers, messengers, guests, and other visitors to a site who
generally stay for a period of less than four (4) hours.
   BLOCK: The frontage along one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
intersecting streets.
   BLOCKFACE: All property between two (2) intersections that fronts upon a
street or abuts a public right-of-way.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods, or materials.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental
to that of the main building on the same lot.
   BUILDING FOOTPRINT: See definition of footprint.
   BUILDING FRONT: That portion of the main building which affords public
entry. In the case of a building with more than one public entry, the entrance
with the assigned address shall be considered the main public entry.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: See definition of height.
   BUILDING, MAIN: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated.
   C DISTRICTS (COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS): One or more of the following districts:
CN Neighborhood Commercial, CR Retail Center, CG General and Service Commercial
or CMX Commercial Mixed-Use.
   CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE: The latest edition of the California Building
Code, as adopted by and in effect in the City.
   CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA): State law, pursuant to
California Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq., or any successor
statute, that requires public agencies to document and consider the
environmental effects of a proposed action before a decision.
   CARPORT: An accessory structure that is roofed but permanently open on at
least two (2) sides and maintained for the storage of motor vehicles.
   CITY: The City of Porterville.
   CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Porterville.
   CITY ENGINEER: The City Engineer of the City of Porterville.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A Code Enforcement Officer is defined under
chapter 2, article IV of the Municipal Code.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle currently registered as such with the State
Department of Motor Vehicles or equivalent out-of-State or Federal agency and
is used primarily in the conduct of a business as opposed to private family or
individual use.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: The director of Porterville’s Community
Development Department
   COMPATIBLE: That which is harmonious with and will not adversely affect
surrounding buildings and/or uses.
   CONDITION OF USE: A development standard determined to be necessary to
permit the harmonious classification of a use as listed in a district and
therefore a prerequisite to place, or for application to place, such use as
classified.
   CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED: Permitted subject to approval of a conditional use
permit or site plan review.
   CONSTRUCTION: Construction, erection, enlargement, alteration, conversion or
movement of any building, structures, or land together with any scientific
surveys associated therewith.
   CONVERSION: A change of a residential dwelling, including a mobile home lot
in a mobile home park, as defined in section 18214 of the Health and Safety
Code, or a residential hotel, as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of
section 50519 of the Health and Safety Code, to a condominium, cooperative, or
similar form of ownership; or a change of a residential dwelling, including a
mobile home lot in a mobile home park, or a residential hotel to a
nonresidential use.
   COUNTY: The County of Tulare.
   CREW MEMBERS: People that make up the crew of an aircraft, including the
pilot, co-pilots, flight engineers, observers, control officers, essential
maintenance personnel, and personnel that support the operation of the
aircraft's activity such as paramedics, nurses, and incidental passengers that
travel to or from the site of the aircraft in the aircraft in flight.
   CREW QUARTERS: Temporary or permanent facilities that house crew members of
an aircraft on a temporary basis.
   D DISTRICTS (DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS): One or more of the following districts:
DR-N Downtown Retail - North of Olive Avenue, DR-S Downtown Retail - South of
Olive Avenue, DR-D Downtown Retail - D Street Corridor, D-MX Downtown Mixed-
Use, D-PO Downtown Professional Office, D-GC Downtown General Commercial, D-PS
Downtown Public and Semipublic, DRM-2 Downtown Medium Density Residential, and
DRM-3 Downtown High Density Residential.
   DECK: A platform, either freestanding or attached to a building, that is
supported by pillars or posts. See also definition of "balcony".
   DEMOLITION: The intentional destruction and removal of any structure or
portion thereof, including a residential dwelling, including a mobile home, as
defined in section 18008 of the Health and Safety Code, or a mobile home lot in
a mobile home park, as defined in section 18214 of the Health and Safety Code,
which has not been declared to be a public nuisance under division 13
(commencing with section 17000) of the Health and Safety Code or any local
ordinance enacted pursuant to those provisions.
   DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per unit of land area.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to the division of a parcel of land into two (2) or
more parcels; the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural
alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure; any mining,
excavation, landfill or land disturbance; and any use or extension of the use
of land.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A contract duly executed and legally binding between
the City of Porterville and a developer(s) that delineates the terms and
conditions agreed upon by two (2) or more parties.
   DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: The development ordinance of the City of Porterville,
as amended.
   DISTRICT: See definition of zoning district.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT: See definition of lot types: through lot.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES: Facilities designed to enable persons to receive a
service or purchase or consume goods while remaining within a motor vehicle,
typically associated with banks, eating, and drinking establishments,
pharmacies, and other commercial uses.
   DRIVEWAY: An accessway composed of concrete or asphalt that provides
vehicular access between a public street or legal right- of-way, controlled by
the City of Porterville, and the parking or loading facilities located on an
adjacent property.
   DWELLING UNIT: A room or suite of rooms including one and only one kitchen,
and designed or occupied as separate living quarters for one family. See also
definition of family.
   EASEMENT: A portion of land created by grant or agreement for specific
purpose; an easement is the right, privilege or interest which one party has in
the land of another.
   EFFECTIVE DATE: The date on which a permit or other approval becomes
enforceable or otherwise takes effect, rather than the date it was signed or
circulated.
   EMERGENCY: A sudden unexpected occurrence demanding immediate action to
prevent or mitigate loss or damage to life, health, property or essential
public services.
   ENGINEERING AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR: The director of Porterville’s
Engineering and Project Management Department
   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT (EIR): An Environmental Impact Report as
required under the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code
section 21000 et seq.
   FACADE: The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view or that wall
viewed by persons not within the building. The portion of any exterior
elevation of a building extending vertically from the grade to the top of a
parapet wall or eave, and horizontally across the entire width of the building
elevation.
   FAMILY: One or more persons living together as a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit and sharing common living, sleeping, cooking and eating
facilities. Members of a "family" need not be related by blood but are
distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club, fraternity or sorority
house.
   FEASIBLE: Capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a
reasonable period of time, taking into account economic, environmental, social
and technological factors.
   FENCE: An artificially-constructed barrier of any material or combination of
materials erected to enclose or screen an area of land.
   FLOOR AREA: The total floor area in a building (including basements,
mezzanines, interior balconies, and upper stories or levels in a multistory
building) unless otherwise stipulated; e.g., "ground" floor area.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The ratio of the total floor area of all buildings
on a lot to the lot area.
   FOOT-CANDLE: See definition of lighting terms.
   FOOTPRINT: The horizontal area, as seen in plan view, of a building or
structure, measured from the outside of exterior walls and supporting columns,
and excluding eaves.
   FREEWAY: A divided arterial highway designated for through traffic having
grade separate intersections and full control of access; State Routes 190 and
65.
   FRONTAGE, STREET (FRONTAGE, LOT): That portion of a lot or parcel of land
that borders a public street. "Street frontage" shall be measured along the
common lot line separating said lot or parcel of land from the public street,
highway, or parkway.
   GARAGE: A building or portion of a building that is enclosed and roofed and
designed for the storage of motor vehicles.
   GENERAL PLAN: The Porterville 2030 General Plan.
   GLARE: The effect produced by a light source within the visual field that is
sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted, such as to
cause annoyance, discomfort or loss of visual performance and ability.
   GROSS LEASABLE AREA: The total floor area for which a tenant pays rent and
that is designed for the tenant's occupancy and exclusive use, including any
basements and mezzanines.
   GROUND FLOOR: The first floor of a building other than a cellar or basement.
   HABITABLE AREA (Also HABITABLE FLOOR AREA): As defined by the most current
adopted Building Code. Generally, a space in a building for living, sleeping,
eating, or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility
spaces and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   HEAT: Thermal energy of a radioactive, conductive, or convective nature.
   HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the highest point of any structure to the
ground level directly below. See also section 103.05, "Measuring Height", of
this chapter.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation conducted by a resident, entirely within a
dwelling, where the use is accessory to the residential use of the structure,
and does not change the residential character of the neighborhood. See article
301, "Standards For Specific Uses And Activities", of this chapter.
   HOUSEHOLD: A family living together in a single dwelling unit, with common
access to, and common use of, all living and eating areas and all areas and
facilities for the preparation and storage of food within the dwelling unit.
   ILLEGAL USE: Any use of land or building that does not have the currently
required permits and was originally constructed and/or established without
permits required for the use at the time it was brought into existence.
IN-LIEU FEES: A cash payment required as a substitute for a dedication and/or
improvement of land by an owner or developer of property.
   INTENSITY OF USE: The impacts a particular use or the use in combination
with other uses has on its surroundings or on its demand for services and
natural resources. Measures of intensity include, but are not limited to,
requirements for water, gas, electricity, or public services; number of
automobile trips generated by a use; parking demand; number of employees on a
site; hours of operation; the amount of noise, light or glare generated; the
number of persons attracted to the site, or, in eating establishments, the
number of seats.
   INTERSECTION, STREET: The area common to two (2) or more intersecting
streets.
   KITCHEN: Any room or space within a building intended to be used for the
cooking or preparation of food.
   LAND DIVISION TERMS: The following terms are related to series 400, "Land
Divisions", of this chapter.
      Abut: To physically touch, border upon, or share a common corner or
property line. For the purposes of series 400, "Land Divisions", of this
chapter, abutting properties shall include those properties separated by any
road, street, or highway except for a limited access major highway, canal, or
railroad.
      Access, Approved: A means of vehicular access that conforms to all of the
requirements of series 400, "Land Divisions", of this chapter, and has been
approved by the City Council or its designee.
      Adjoin: To physically touch, be contiguous to, or be situated next to but
not including properties separated by any road, street, or highway.
      Applicant: The subdivider or agent thereof.
      Arterial: A street designated by the circulation element of the General
Plan to serve high-volume inter- and intra-City traffic, and to act as a
distributor between freeways, other arterials, and major traffic generators.
      Block: An area of land within a subdivision entirely bounded by any
streets (other than alleys), freeways, railroad rights-of- way, natural
barriers, or the exterior boundaries of the subdivision.
      Centerline: A line designated by official survey to be the center of a
future or existing fully developed easement, street, road, or highway, which
may or may not coincide with the construction centerline.
      Collector Street: A street designated by the circulation element of the
General Plan to collect and distribute traffic between local streets and
arterials.
      Community Apartment Project: A project in which an undivided interest in
the land is coupled with the right of exclusive occupancy of any apartment
located thereon.
      Condominium: A property conforming to the definition set forth in section
783 of the Civil Code of the State of California.
      Condominium Project: A development consisting of condominiums.
      Conversion: The creation of separate ownership of existing real property
together with a separate interest in space of a building.
      Cul-De-Sac: A local street open at only one end, which has a turnaround
for vehicles at the closed end.
      Design: Any of the following:
      A.   Street alignments, grades and widths, sidewalks, curbs and gutters;
      B.   Drainage and sanitary facilities and utilities, including alignments
and grades thereof;
      C.   Location and size of all required easements and rights-of-way;
      D.   Fire roads and firebreaks;
      E.   Lot size and configuration;
      F.   Traffic access;
      G.   Grading;
      H.   Land to be dedicated for park or recreational purposes; and
      I.   Other specific physical requirements in the plan and configuration
of the entire subdivision that are necessary to ensure consistency with, or
implementation of, the General Plan or any applicable specific plan.
      Final Map: A map showing a subdivision of five (5) or more lots, prepared
for filing with the Tulare County Recorder in accordance with the provisions of
the Subdivision Map Act and series 400, "Land Divisions", of this chapter, if
deemed in substantial compliance with a previously approved tentative
subdivision map and with any conditions to such approval.
      Flood Or Flooding: Any general inundation of normally dry land from the
overflow of tidal waters or from the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff
of surface waters from any source.
      Frontage Road: A street adjacent and auxiliary to a freeway or arterial,
and separated by a divider strip, which street provides access to abutting
property.
      Improvements: Any street work and utilities to be installed, or agreed to
be installed, by the subdivider on the land to be used for public or private
streets, highways, ways, and easements, as are necessary for the general use of
the lot owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood traffic and drainage
needs as a condition precedent to the approval and acceptance of the final map
thereof. Improvements also refers to any other specific improvements or types
of improvements, the installation of which, either by the subdivider, by public
agencies, by private utilities, by any other entity approval by the local
agency, or by a combination thereof, is necessary to ensure consistency with,
or implementation of, the General Plan or any applicable specific plan.
      Industrial Street: A street that serves an industrial area and connects
said area to the major street system.
      Local Street: A street which provides direct access to abutting
properties, primarily in residential districts with more than four hundred
(400) average daily vehicle trips pursuant to the latest edition of the
Institute of Transportation Engineers - Trip Generation Manual.
      Lot Line Adjustment: A shift or rotation of an existing lot line or other
adjustment where a greater or lesser number of parcels than originally existed
is not created, as approved in accordance with section 406.03, "Lot Line
Adjustments", of this chapter.
      Map Act: The Subdivision Map Act of the State of California Government
Code.
      Merger: The joining of two (2) or more contiguous parcels of land under
one ownership into one parcel.
      Minor Street: A street that provides direct access to abutting
properties, primarily in residential districts with four hundred (400) or fewer
average daily vehicle trips pursuant to the latest edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers - Trip Generation Manual.
      Parcel: A legally subdivided plot of land shown on a map of record. Also
referred to as "lot".
      Parcel Map: A map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, designed to be placed on record in the Office of the Tulare County
Recorder, and providing for the division of land which meets the exceptions set
forth in section 66426 of the Map Act.
      Preliminary Map: A map to be submitted to the Zoning Administrator prior
to the filing of a tentative map, to show the general characteristics of the
proposed subdivision and any other data necessary to enable the Project Review
Committee to review the proposed subdivision design.
      Private Street: Any street, roadway, accessway or similar, lying in whole
or in part within a subdivision which is privately owned and maintained and
provides access to a development.
      Public Improvement: A street work, utilities, and other facilities
proposed or required to be installed within the subdivision for the general use
of all the subdivision lot owners and for local neighborhood or community
needs.
      Remainder: That portion of an existing parcel which is not designated on
the required map as part of the subdivision. The remainder shall not be
considered as part of the subdivision but shall be shown on the required map as
part of the area surrounding the subdivision.
      Standard Plans And Specifications: All the standard plans and
specifications prepared by the City Engineer and approved by resolution of the
City Council.
      Stock Cooperative: A development in which a corporation is formed
primarily for the purpose of holding title to, either in fee simple or for a
term of years, improved real property, and all or substantially all of the
shareholders of the corporation receive a right of exclusive occupancy in a
portion of the real property, title to which is held by the corporation. The
owners' interest in the corporation, whether evidenced by a share of stock, a
certificate of membership, or otherwise, shall be deemed to be an interest in a
common interest development and a real estate development.
      Subdivider: As defined in section 66423 of the Map Act.
      Subdivision: The division, by any subdivider, of any unit or units of
improved or unimproved land, or any portion thereof, shown on the latest
equalized County assessment roll as a unit or as contiguous units, for the
purpose of sale, lease or financing, whether immediate or future. Property
shall be considered contiguous units, even if it is separated by roads,
streets, utility easement, or railroad rights-of-way. This definition shall
specifically include condominiums, community apartment projects, or stock
cooperative conversions.
      Subdivision Design: The overall layout of the proposed subdivision
including, but not limited to, the arrangement of streets and intersections,
the layout and size of lots, the widths and locations of easements and rights-
of-way for utilities, drainage structures, sewers, the nature and location of
public or semi-public facilities, programs for the preservation of natural
features, and the installation of public improvements.
      Tentative Map: A map made for the purpose of showing the design and
improvements of a proposed subdivision and the existing conditions in and
around it.
      Tentative Parcel Map: A map made for the purpose of showing the design
and improvements of a proposed subdivision creating four (4) or fewer parcels
or more than four (4) parcels as provided for in the State Subdivision Map Act
and series 400, "Land Divisions", of this chapter, and the existing conditions
in and around it.
      Vesting Tentative Map: A tentative map for a subdivision that shall have
printed conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map" at the time
it is filed in accordance with article 403, "Vesting Tentative Maps", of this
chapter, and is thereafter processed in accordance with the provisions hereof.
   LANDSCAPING: The planting, configuration and maintenance of trees, ground
cover, shrubbery and other plant material, decorative natural and structural
features (walls, fences, hedges, trellises, fountains, sculptures), earth
patterning and bedding materials, and other similar site improvements that
serve an aesthetic or functional purpose.
   LANDSCAPING TERMS:
      Anti-Drain Or Check Valve: A valve located under a sprinkler head or
other location in the irrigation system to hold water in the system to prevent
or minimize drainage from sprinkler heads when the system is off.
      Automatic Controller: A mechanical or solid state timer, capable of
operating valve stations to set the days and length of time of a water
application.
      Backflow Prevention Device: A safety device used to prevent pollution or
contamination of the water supply due to the reverse flow of water from the
irrigation system.
      Controller: An automatic timing device used to remotely control valves to
set an irrigation schedule.
      Emitter: A drip irrigation fitting emission device that delivers water
slowly from the system to the soil.
      Hydrozone: A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar
water needs.
      Irrigation Efficiency: The measurement of the amount of water
beneficially used divided by the amount of water applied. Irrigation efficiency
is derived from measurements and estimates of irrigation system characteristics
and management practices.
      Operating Pressure: The pressure at which an irrigation system is
designed by the manufacturer to operate.
      Overspray: The water which is delivered beyond the landscaped area and
causes overland flow during irrigation events onto non- targeted areas such as,
pavements, walks and structures.
      Runoff: Water which is not absorbed by the soil or landscape to which it
is applied and flows from the landscape area.
   LIGHTING TERMS:
      Foot-Candle: A quantitative unit of measure for luminance. One foot-
candle is equal to the amount of light generated by one candle shining on one
square foot surface located one foot (1') away. Equal to one lumen uniformly
distributed over an area of one square foot.
      Light Fixture: The assembly that holds a lamp and may include an assembly
housing, a mounting bracket or pole socket, a lamp holder, a ballast, a
reflector or mirrors, and a refractor or lens.
      Light Fixture Cutoff: Light fixtures are classified as full cutoff,
cutoff, semi-cutoff, or non-cutoff according to the most recent adopted
criteria of the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA). The
IESNA classifications are defined as follows (IESNA 2000):
      Full Cutoff: The luminous intensity (in candelas) at or above an angle of
ninety degrees (90°) above nadir is zero (0), and the luminous intensity (in
candelas) at or above a vertical angle of eighty degrees (80°) above nadir does
not numerically exceed ten percent (10%) of the luminous flux (in lumens) of
the lamp or lamps in the luminaire.
      Cutoff: The luminous intensity (in candelas) at or above an angle of
ninety degrees (90°) above nadir does not numerically exceed two and one-half
percent (2.5%) of the luminous flux (in lumens) of the lamp or lamps in the
luminary, and the luminous intensity (in candelas) at or above a vertical angle
of eighty degrees (80°) above nadir does not numerically exceed ten percent
(10%) of the luminous flux (in lumens) of the lamp or lamps in the luminary.
      Semi-Cutoff: The luminous intensity (in candelas) at or above an angle of
ninety degrees (90°) above nadir does not numerically exceed five percent (5%)
of the luminous flux (in lumens) of the lamp or lamps in the luminary, and the
luminous intensity (in candelas) at or above a vertical angle of eighty degrees
(80°) above nadir does not numerically exceed twenty percent (20%) of the
luminous flux (in lumens) of the lamp or lamps in the luminary.
      Non-Cutoff: There is no candela limitation in the zone above maximum
candela.
      Shielded Fixture: Outdoor light fixtures shielded or constructed so that
light rays emitted by the lamp are projected below the horizontal plane passing
through the lowest point on the fixture from which light is emitted.
   LIVING ROOM: The principal room in a dwelling unit designed for general
living purposes rather than for sleeping.
   LONG-TERM PARKING: A situation in which a vehicle is not normally moved
during the period of an employee's work shift, as opposed to customer or
visitor parking.
   LOT: A parcel, tract, or area of land whose boundaries have been established
by a legal instrument such as a recorded deed or a recorded map, and which is
recognized as a separate legal entity for purposes of transfer of title, except
public easements or rights-of-way.
   LOT AREA: The total area circumscribed by the boundaries of a lot, excluding
any street rights-of-way.
   LOT COVERAGE: The portion of a lot that is covered by structures, including
principal and accessory buildings, garages, carports, and roofed porches, but
not including unenclosed and unroofed decks or landings. See also section
103.10, "Determining Lot Coverage", of this chapter.
   LOT DEPTH: The distance from the midpoint of the front property line of a
lot to the midpoint of the rear property line, or to the most distant point on
any other lot line where there is no rear lot line. See also section 103.06,
"Measuring Lot Width And Depth", of this chapter.
   LOT FRONTAGE: See definition of frontage, street.
   LOT LINE: Any boundary of a lot.
   LOT LINE TYPES:
      Front Lot Line: The lot line that abuts a street or public right-of-way.
For corner lots, the shortest side fronting a public street is considered the
front lot line regardless of which street is used for vehicle or pedestrian
access, or street address.
      Interior Lot Line: Any lot line that is not adjacent to a street.
      Rear Lot Line: The lot line that is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. Where no lot line is within forty five degrees (45°) of being
parallel to the front lot line, a line ten feet (10') in length within the lot,
parallel to and at the maximum possible distance from the front lot line, will
be deemed the rear lot line for the purpose of establishing the minimum rear
yard.
   FIGURE 700.02(A):   REAR LOT LINE FOR
   PURPOSE OF DETERMINING SETBACK
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3840.png]
 
      Side Lot Line: Any lot line that is not a front or rear lot line.
      Street Side Lot Line: A side lot line of a corner lot that is adjacent to
a street.
   LOT TYPES:
      Lot, Corner: A lot or parcel situated at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets that have an angle intersection measured within said lot or parcel
of not more than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
      Lot, Flag: A lot with access to a street by means of a strip of land
having less than the required site width but not less than twenty five feet
(25') of frontage. The length of a strip shall be measured from the frontage
line to the nearest point of intersection with that lot line parallel or most
nearly parallel to the frontage line. The area of an access strip shall not be
included in determining the site area of the developable lot.
      Lot, Interior: A lot or parcel of land other than a corner or flag lot.
      Lot, Key: An interior lot adjoining the rear lot line of a reversed
corner lot.
      Lot, Reversed Corner: A corner lot, the street side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front line of a lot or parcel of land which
adjoins the rear lot line of said lot.
      Lot, Through: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   FIGURE 700.02(B):   LOT AND YARD TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0ca25c31eac7947d8f54effab4550afefb6a21b1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3842.png]
 
   LOT WIDTH: The distance between the side lot lines, measured at a right
angle to the lot depth at the midpoint of the lot depth line. See also section
103.06, "Measuring Lot Width And Depth", of this chapter.
   MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: The repair or replacement of nonbearing walls,
fixtures, wiring, roof or plumbing that restores the character, scope, size or
design of a structure to its previously existing, authorized, and undamaged
condition.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure constructed on or after June 15, 1976 in
compliance with State standards in effect at the time of construction, is
transportable in one or more sections, is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a single-family dwelling with or without a foundation
system when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems. "Manufactured home" includes
any structure that meets all the requirements of this definition and with
respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification and
complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Act of 1974.
   MOBILE HOME: A structure constructed prior to June 15, 1976 in compliance
with State standards in effect at the time of construction, is transportable in
one or more sections, is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used
as a single-family dwelling with or without a foundation system when connected
to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical systems. "Mobile home" does not include a
commercial modular, as defined in section 18001.8, factory-built housing, as
defined in section 19971, a manufactured home, as defined in section 18007, a
multifamily manufactured home, as defined in section 18008.7, or a recreational
vehicle, as defined in section 18010 of the Health and Safety Code.
   NOISE TERMS:
      Ambient Noise Level: The composite of noise from all sources excluding an
alleged offensive noise. In this context, the ambient noise level represents
the normal or existing level of environmental noise at a given location for a
specified time of day or night.
      Decibel: A unit for measuring the amplitude of a sound, equal to twenty
(20) times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the
sound measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty (20) micropascals.
      Mobile Noise Source: Any noise source other than a fixed noise source.
      Noise: Any sound that annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends
to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
      Noise Level Reduction (NLR): The difference in decibels of noise level
from the outside of a building to the interior of a building, generally
resulting from various construction methods and the materials used in walls,
windows, ceilings, doors, and vents of a building.
   NONCONFORMING USE AND DEVELOPMENT TERMS:
      Abandoned: A use that has ceased or a structure that has been vacated for
a time period as specified in this chapter. Abandonment does not include
temporary or short-term interruptions to a use or occupancy of a structure
during periods of remodeling, maintaining, or otherwise improving or
rearranging a facility.
      Illegal Nonconforming Building Or Use: A building or use that does not
conform to one or more of the provisions of this chapter and did not lawfully
exist on the effective date of applicable sections of this chapter.
      and in compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws at the time
this chapter or any amendment thereto became effective, but which, due to the
application of this chapter or any amendment thereto, no longer complies with
all the applicable regulation and standards of development in the zone in which
it is located.
      Nonconforming Lot: A lot, the area, dimensions, or location of which was
lawful prior to the effective date of this chapter, or any amendment thereto,
but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform
to the present requirements of the zoning district.
      Nonconforming Sign: A sign that lawfully existed prior to but which fails
by reason of such adoption or amendment to conform to all of the standards and
regulation of this chapter.
      Nonconforming Use: A use of a structure or land that was lawfully
established and maintained, but which does not conform with currently
applicable use regulations for the district in which it is located by reason of
adoption or amendment of this chapter or by reason of annexation of territory
to the City.
   NUISANCE: Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive
to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use and enjoyment of property, or
a violation of this chapter.
   OCCUPANCY, CHANGE IN: A discontinuance of an existing use and the
substitution therefor of a use of a different kind or class.
   ON-SITE: Located on the lot that is the subject of discussion.
   ON-SITE LOADING FACILITIES: A site or portion of a site devoted to the
loading or unloading of motor vehicles or trailers, including loading berths,
aisles, access drives, and landscaped areas.
   OPEN SPACE TYPES:
      Common Open Space: Areas for outdoor living and recreation that are
intended for the use of residents and guests of more than one dwelling unit.
      Private Open Space: Open areas for outdoor living and recreation that are
adjacent and directly accessible to a single dwelling unit, reserved for the
exclusive use of residents of the dwelling unit and their guests.
      Usable Open Space: Outdoor areas that provide for outdoor living and/or
recreation for the use of residents.
   OPPOSITE: Across from or across the street from.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE: The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, junk,
material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than twenty four
(24) hours, except for the keeping of building materials reasonably required
for construction work on the premises pursuant to a valid and current building
permit issued by the City.
   OWNER: Any person owning property, as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll for City taxes or the lessee, tenant or other person having control or
possession of the property.
   PARKING AREA: A lot, structure, or any other area, including driveways,
which is designed for and the primary purpose of which is to provide for the
temporary storage of vehicles.
   PERMIT: Any zoning certificate, conditional use permit, temporary use
permit, building permit, license, certificate, approval, or other entitlement
for development and/or use of property as required by any public agency.
   PERMITTED USE: Any use allowed in a zoning district without a requirement
for approval of a conditional use permit, but subject to any restrictions
applicable to that zoning district.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business trust, company, or corporation.
   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES: Persons who have a medical, physical, or mental
condition, disorder or disability as defined in California Government Code
section 12926, that limits one or more major life activities.
   PORCH: A roofed structure, usually open at the sides, projecting from the
face of a building and used to protect the entrance.
   PRE-EXISTING: In existence prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   PROJECT: Any proposal for a new or changed use or for new construction,
alteration, or enlargement of any structure, that is subject to the provisions
of this chapter. This term also refers to any action that qualifies as a
"project" as defined by the California Environmental Quality Act.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The Director of Porterville's Public Works
Department.
   QUALIFIED APPLICANT: The property owner, the owner's agent, or any person,
corporation, partnership or other legal entity that has a legal or equitable
title to land that is the subject of a development proposal or is the holder of
an option or contract to purchase such land or otherwise has an enforceable
proprietary interest in such land.
   QUEUING AREA: The distance from the point of sale to the public right-of-
way, for vehicles or customers waiting in vehicles for service at drive-through
facilities, pump stations, auto service bays, or similar uses.
   R DISTRICT (RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT): One or more of the following districts:
RS-1 Very Low Density Residential, RS-2 Low Density Residential, RM-1 Low-
Medium Density Residential, RM-2 Medium Density Residential, or RM-3 High
Density Residential.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, or camping
trailer with or without motor power designed for human habitation for
recreational, emergency, or other occupancy, which meets all of the following
criteria:
   A.   It contains less than three hundred twenty (320) square feet of
internal living room area, excluding built-in equipment, including but not
limited to wardrobe, closets, cabinets, kitchen units, or fixtures, and a bath
or toilet room;
   B.   It contains four hundred (400) square feet or less of gross area
measured at maximum horizontal projections;
   C.   It is built on a single chassis; and
   D.   It is either self-propelled, truck-mounted, or permanently towable on
the highways without a permit issued by the appropriate State agency.
   REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY/SUCCESSOR AGENCY: The Redevelopment Agency/successor
agency of the City of Porterville.
   RESCISSION: The City's unilateral unmaking of an approval for a legally
sufficient reason, such as applicant's material breach of a condition.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied or
occupied by a road, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline,
water line, sanitary storm sewer or other similar use.
   SCREENING: Screening refers to a wall, fence, hedge, informal planting, or
berm, provided for the purpose of buffering a building or activity from
neighboring areas or from the street.
   SETBACK: The area between a property line and a building or structure which
must be kept clear or open. See also sections 103.04, "Measuring Distances",
and 103.12, "Determining Setbacks (Yards)", of this chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS TERMS: See section 301.17, "Sexually Oriented
Businesses", of this chapter.
   SIDEWALK: A paved, surfaced, or leveled area, paralleling and usually
separated from the street, used as a pedestrian walkway.
   SIGN-RELATED TERMS: The following terms are related to article 305, "Signs",
of this chapter:
      Abandoned Sign: A sign remaining in place or not maintained for a period
of ninety (90) days which no longer advertises or identifies an ongoing
business, product, or service available on the business premises where the sign
is located.
      Animated Sign: A sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
      Area Of Sign: The area included within the outer dimensions of a sign
face display area including all portions not part of the necessary supporting
structure; a double-faced sign whose faces are parallel or no more than thirty
degrees (30°) apart shall be deemed to be a single sign for the purposes of
determining sign area. In the case of a sign placed on a wall or other
structure surface, the area shall be computed by enclosing the sign within sets
of parallel lines.
      Awning Sign: A sign painted or otherwise affixed permanently to the
exterior surface of an awning. For purposes of this chapter, awning means
shelter projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a building and
constructed of a rigid frame covered by a flexible skin (e.g., as fabric,
synthetic material, or thin sheet metal).
      Balloon: An inflatable, airtight bag that can be strung together in
multiple numbers to attract attention to a business location. A balloon shall
not be considered an inflatable sign.
      Banner: A temporary sign made of fabric or any nonrigid material with no
enclosing framework.
      Building Frontage: Building frontage shall be considered the wall of a
building that faces and is roughly parallel with a public street, excluding an
alley.
      Building-Mounted Sign: Any sign mounted or erected on or against any
building or facade, including all wall signs, awning and canopy signs and
projecting signs.
      Can Sign (Box Sign): A sign on the outside face of a metal box with or
without internal illumination.
      Canopy: A rigid multi-sided structure covered with fabric, metal, or
other material and supported by columns or posts embedded in the ground, or
cantilevered out from the main structure.
      Changeable Copy Sign: A sign whose informational content can be changed
or altered manually.
      Channel Letters: Three-dimensional individual letters or figures, with an
open back or front, illuminated or nonilluminated, that are affixed to a
building or to a freestanding sign structure.
      Construction Sign: A temporary sign describing in words and/or drawings a
planned future development project on a property.
      Directional Sign: An on-site sign designed to direct or guide pedestrian
or vehicular traffic and which is nonadvertising in nature, except for a logo
and directional information, (e.g., handicapped parking, one way, exit, and
entrance).
      Electronic Message Center Sign: A sign whose informational content can be
changed or altered by electric, electro- mechanical, electronic, or any other
artificial energy means.
      Fence Sign: A sign attached to or painted onto any freestanding wall or
fence.
      Flag: A loose fabric or membrane secured to a pole or rod, which flutters
and moves with air or wind movement.
      Freestanding Sign: A sign that is permanently supported upon the ground
by poles or braces and is not attached to any building or other structure.
      Height: The vertical distance measured from the lowest ground level
directly beneath the sign to the highest point at the top of the sign. The
ground level shall be either the natural grade or finished grade, whichever is
lowest.
      Identifiable Area: Residential, commercial, or industrial site containing
a minimum of two (2) acres with an integrated site and design plan creating a
single unified development with one or more uses.
      Identification Sign: A permanent sign used to identify a residential
area, shopping district, industrial district, or any area which fulfills the
definition of an identifiable area.
      Illegal Sign: A sign that does not meet the requirements of this chapter
or that does not have legal nonconforming status.
      Illuminated Sign: A sign with an artificial source of light incorporated
internally or externally for the purpose of illuminating the sign.
      Inflatable Sign: A form of inflatable device (e.g., shaped as an animal,
blimp, or other object) that is displayed, printed, or painted on the surface
of an inflatable background, and is primarily installed outside a building to
attract attention to or to advertise a business, a business location, a
service, a product, or an event. An inflatable sign shall not be considered a
balloon.
      Interior Illumination: Lighting whose source is contained within the
sign.
      Logo: A specially designed graphic symbol of a business establishment, a
company, or any other legal private or public entity.
      Mansard: A wall which has a slope equal to or greater than two (2)
vertical feet for each horizontal foot and has been designed to look like a
roof.
      Marquee Sign: A sign advertising an event, performance, service, seminar,
conference, or show, and displayed on a permanent roof-like structure or canopy
made of rigid materials supported by and extending from the facade of a
building.
      Master Sign Program: A coordinated program of signage designed to
encourage consistency in signage for developments with multiple tenants or for
developments with a single tenant proposing multiple signs.
      Monument Sign: A low-profile freestanding sign erected upon or supported
solely by a planter, pedestal base, or similar ground structure approximately
the same dimension as the height of the sign and which is designed to
incorporate the architectural theme and building material of the building on
the premises.
      Neon Sign: A sign with tubing that is internally illuminated by neon or
other electrically charged gas.
      New Subdivision: An area of land that has a final subdivision map
recorded on it, but that is not yet completely built out.
      Off-Site Advertising Sign: A sign structure or billboard, whether
freestanding or mounted on an existing building, built for the purpose of
advertising an establishment, product or service that is not available on the
property upon which the sign is located at the time the sign structure was
erected.
      Off-Site Directional Sign: A sign offering directional information to a
business, location or place located in an area different from where the sign is
located.
      Parapet: That portion of the building wall that extends above the roof of
the building.
      Pennant: A device made of flexible materials, (e.g., cloth, paper, or
plastic), that may or may not contain copy, and which is installed for the
purpose of attracting attention.
      Political Sign: A temporary sign installed that advertises a political
candidate, a political party, or a political issue.
      Portable Sign: A sign not permanently attached to, mounted upon, or
affixed to a building, structure, or the ground. Portable signs include A-frame
signs, sandwich board signs, and signs on wheels.
      Projecting Sign: A sign, the sign surface of which is not parallel to the
face of the supporting wall and which is supported wholly by the wall. This
definition shall include V- or wing-type signs.
      Real Estate Sign: A temporary sign indicating that the premises on which
the sign is located is for sale, lease, or rent. These signs typically include
rider signs that describe amenities such as swimming pools and spas, open house
signs, subdivision signs, and off-site directional signs.
      Roof Sign: A sign erected, constructed, and attached to and/or maintained
upon or above any roof or portion of a roof of any building, including a
mansard roof. For the purposes of this chapter, a mansard roof is any roof or
parapet wall with roofing material for siding that slopes from thirty degrees
(30°) to ninety degrees (90°) and does not have a ridgeline.
      Sign: Any letters, figure, visual symbol, logo, object, or display, or
any combination thereof, designed or used to identify, attract attention to,
advertise, or communicate information. Signs include display surfaces together
with such facilities as are utilized in supporting, maintaining, and
illuminating the display surfaces.
      Sign Area: See definition of sign-related terms: area of sign.
      Sign Copy: Any words, letters, logos, numbers, figures, design, or other
symbolic representation incorporated into a sign.
      Sign Face: The surface or surfaces used for the display of a sign message
as seen from any one direction.
      Temporary Sign: A sign that is designed or intended to be temporarily
mounted or displayed and that is not intended for permanent or long-term use.
      Vehicle Display Sign: A sign mounted, attached, affixed or painted upon
any surface of a motor vehicle, trailer or similar conveyance parked on public
or private property for the purpose of advertising a business or a business
location within the City or outside the City.
      Vehicle For Sale Sign: A sign painted or affixed onto vehicles for sale
that are kept in vehicle display areas of new and used motor vehicle dealership
lots.
      Wall Sign: A sign painted or installed on or attached to a wall and which
is parallel to the building facade. This definition includes painted, channel
letters, and can signs.
      Window Sign: A sign painted or installed on a glass window or door or
located within twelve inches (12") from inside the window in a manner that it
can be viewed from the exterior of a structure.
   SITE: A lot, or group of contiguous lots, that is proposed for development
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and is in a single ownership
or under unified control.
   SPECIFIC PLAN: A plan for a defined area that is consistent with the General
Plan and with the provisions of the California Government Code, section 65450
et seq.
   STATE: The State of California.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the roof above.
   STREET: A public or private right-of-way whose function is to carry
vehicular traffic or provide vehicular access to abutting property.
   STRIP MALL: An attached row of stores or service outlets, configured in a
straight line, with on-site parking usually located between the street and the
stores, typically with multiple driveways. Open canopies may connect the store
fronts, but a strip mall does not have enclosed walkways linking the stores.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change of the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, floor joists, ceiling joists,
or roof rafters.
   STRUCTURE:
      Accessory Structure: A subordinate structure, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main structure on the same lot.
      Permanent Structure: Anything constructed or erected which requires a
fixed location on the ground, or is attached to a building or other structure
having fixed location on the ground.
      Primary Structure (Main Structure): A structure housing the principal use
of a site or functioning as the principal use.
      Temporary Structure: A structure without any foundation or footings and
which is intended to be removed when the designated time period, activity, or
use for which the temporary structure was erected has ceased.
   SWIMMING POOL: A pool, pond, lake, or open tank capable of containing water
to a depth greater than one and one-half feet (1.5') at any point.
   TANDEM PARKING: An arrangement of parking spaces such that one or more
spaces must be driven across in order to access another space or spaces.
   TELECOMMUNICATION TERMS: The following terms are related to section 301.20,
"Telecommunication Facilities", of this chapter:
      Amateur Radio Antenna: Any antenna used to receive or transmit radio
signals on the amateur radio bandwidth, as designated by Federal regulations.
      Antenna: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar
devices used for the transmission or receiving of electromagnetic radio
frequency waves.
      Camouflage: To disguise a wireless facility by incorporating it into the
architectural design of a building or structure or by utilizing design and
siting techniques that disguise the wireless facility as a structure or object
other than a wireless facility, which is either already present in the area or
blends in with the existing environment. Examples of camouflage techniques
include, but are not limited to, trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light
poles and flag poles. The use of mono-pines shall not be considered appropriate
camouflage unless integrated into the surrounding landscape with the use of
live trees, new or existing structures or other design features.
      Co-Location: The location of two (2) or more wireless communication
facilities on a single support structure or otherwise sharing a common
location. For the purposes of this chapter, co-location shall also include the
location of wireless communication facilities with other facilities such as
water tanks, light standards, and other utility facilities and structures.
      Communication Tower: Any structure that is used to transmit or receive
electromagnetic radio frequency waves or that supports such a device.
      Ground-Mounted: A facility that is fully or partially supported by a
platform, framework, pole, or other structural system that is affixed to or
placed directly on or in the ground.
      Monopole: A facility that consists of a single pole structure erected on
the ground to support wireless communication antennas and connecting
appurtenances.
      Wireless Telecommunication Facility: A facility containing communication
towers and/or antennas and any related equipment for the purpose of
transmitting or receiving electromagnetic radio frequency waves.
   TEMPORARY USES: The following terms are related to section 301.21,
"Temporary Uses", of this chapter:
      Garage Sales: The sale or offering for sale to the general public of over
five (5) items of personal property on a portion of a lot in a residentially
zoned district, whether inside or outside any building.
      Model Homes: A dwelling built in a subdivision development to allow
potential home buyers to view a sample finished product before other homes in
the development are completed.
      Outdoor Sales, Temporary And Seasonal: The sale or offering for sale to
the general public of merchandise outside of a permanent structure on property
owned or leased by the person, firm, or corporation. These sales are of a
limited duration and conducted on an occasional basis, and are secondary or
incidental to the principal permitted use or structure existing on the
property.
   UNIT: See definition of dwelling unit.
   USE: The purpose for which a site or structure is arranged, designed,
intended, constructed, erected, moved, altered, or enlarged for which either a
site or a structure is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY: A use that is customarily associated with, and is incidental
and subordinate to, the principal use and located on the same lot as the
principal use.
   USE, PRIMARY: A primary or dominant use established, or proposed to be
established, on a lot.
   USE, SENSITIVE: Any cemetery/religious institution; school; public building
regularly frequented by children; public park; or boys' and girls' club, or
similar youth organizations.
   VARIANCE: Permission to depart from the literal requirements of this
chapter.
   VIBRATION: A periodic motion of the particles of an elastic body or medium
in alternately opposite directions from the position of equilibrium.
   VISIBLE: Capable of being seen (whether or not legible) by a person of
normal height and visual acuity walking or driving on a public road.
   WEEKDAY: Any day, Monday through Friday, that is not a Federal, State, or
local holiday.
   YARD: In residential districts, including D-MX and CMX, an open space on a
lot that is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as
otherwise permitted by this chapter.
      Front Yard: A yard extending across the front of a lot for the full width
of the lot between the side lot lines, measured inward from the front lot line.
The depth of a front yard shall be the minimum setback to the residence,
excluding unenclosed porches; where the residence is not built to the minimum
setback, the standard shall be twenty feet (20') a distance specified by this
chapter for the district in which it is located.
      Interior Side Yard: A yard extending along an interior side of a lot from
the front lot line to the rear lot line, and to a depth specified by this
chapter for the district in which it is located and measured inward from the
interior side lot line.
      Rear Yard: A yard extending across the rear of a lot for its full width
between side lot lines, and to a depth specified by this chapter for the
district in which it is located. If a lot has no rear lot line, a line ten feet
(10') in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum possible
distance from the front lot line, will be deemed the rear lot line for the
purpose of establishing the minimum rear yard.
      Street Side Yard: A yard extending along the street side of a corner lot
from the front lot line to the rear lot line, and to a depth specified by this
chapter for the district in which it is located and measured inward from the
street side lot line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The Community Development Director of the City of
Porterville, or designee.
   ZONING DISTRICT: A specifically delineated area or district in the City
within which regulations and requirements uniformly govern the use, placement,
spacing, and size of land and buildings. (Ord. 1843, 11-7-2017; amd. Ord. 1873,
6-2-2020)
ARTICLE 701. USE CLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION:
701.01: Purpose And Applicability
701.02: Land Use Classifications
701.01: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
Use classifications describe one or more uses of land having similar
characteristics, but do not list every use or activity that may appropriately
be within the classification. The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether
a specific use shall be deemed to be within one or more use classifications or
not within any classification in this chapter. The Zoning Administrator may
determine that a specific use shall not be deemed to be within a
classification, whether or not named within the classification, if its
characteristics are substantially incompatible with those typical of uses named
within the classification. (Ord. 1801, 12-3-2013)
701.02: LAND USE CLASSIFICATIONS:
Aircraft Sales, Services, And Storage. Uses related to the rental, sales and
leasing, storage, repair, and washing of aircraft.
Airports. Facilities for the takeoff and landing of airplanes, including
runways, aircraft storage buildings, public terminal buildings and parking, and
support activities such as airport operations, crew quarters, and air traffic
control.
Animal Care, Sales And Services.
   Kennels. Facilities for keeping, boarding, training, breeding or maintaining
for commercial purposes, four (4) or more dogs, cats, or other household pets
not owned by the kennel owner or operator. This classification excludes pet
shops and animal hospitals that provide twenty four (24) hour accommodation of
animals receiving medical or grooming services.
   Pet Stores. Retail sales of animals and/or services, including grooming, for
animals on a commercial basis. This classification excludes dog walking and
similar pet care services not carried out at a fixed location, and excludes pet
supply stores that do not sell animals or provide on- site animal services.
   Veterinary Services, Large. Medical care for large animals which generally
includes agricultural animals, on a commercial basis. This classification
allows twenty four (24) hour accommodation of animals receiving medical or
grooming services.
   Veterinary Services, Small. Medical care for small animals on a commercial
basis. This classification allows twenty four (24) hour accommodation of
animals receiving medical or grooming services but does not include kennels.
Animal Raising. The raising, grazing, or feeding of animals for animal
products, animal increase, or value increase, and dairying as an accessory use
on farms with dairy cattle.
Artists' Studios. Work space for artists and artisans, including individuals
practicing one of the fine arts or performing arts, or skilled in an applied
art or craft. Incidental retail sales of items produced on the premises is
required.
Automobile/Vehicle Sales And Services.
   Automobile/Vehicle Rentals. Rental of automobiles, including storage and
incidental maintenance.
   Automobile/Vehicle Sales And Leasing. Sales or leasing of automobiles,
boats, motorcycles, trucks, and motor homes, including storage and incidental
maintenance.
   Automobile/Vehicle Service And Repair, Major. Repair of automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, motor homes, boats and recreational vehicles, including the sale,
installation, and servicing of related equipment and parts, generally on an
overnight basis. This classification includes auto repair shops, body and
fender shops, and transmission shops, but excludes vehicle dismantling or
salvaging and tire retreading or recapping.
   Automobile/Vehicle Service And Repair, Minor. The service and repair of
automobiles, light-duty trucks, boats, and motorcycles, including the sale,
installation, and servicing of related equipment and parts. This classification
includes quick-service oil, tune-up, wheel and brake shops, auto glass
services, tire sales and installation, muffler shops and upholstery shops where
repairs are made or service provided in enclosed bays and no vehicles are
stored overnight. This classification excludes establishments providing engine
repair, body and fender work, vehicle painting, or towing. It also excludes
repair of heavy trucks or construction vehicles.
   Automobile/Vehicle Washing. Washing, waxing, or cleaning of automobiles or
similar light vehicles, including self-serve washing facilities.
   Emergency Ambulance Services. The location of emergency ambulance service
vehicles.
   Large Vehicle And Equipment Sales, Service And Rental. Sales, servicing,
rental, fueling, and washing of large trucks, trailers, tractors, and other
equipment used for construction, agricultural, or landscape gardening
activities. Includes large vehicle operation training facilities. Sales of new
or used automobiles or trucks are excluded from this classification.
   Service Station. Establishments primarily engaged in retailing automotive
fuels or retailing these fuels in combination with activities, such as
providing repair services; selling automotive oils, replacement parts, and
accessories; and/or providing food services.
   Towing And Impound. Establishments primarily engaged in towing light or
heavy motor vehicles, both local and long distance. These establishments may
provide incidental services, such as vehicle storage and emergency road repair
services. (For automobile/dismantling, see Salvage And Wrecking.)
Banks And Financial Institutions.
   Banks And Credit Unions. Financial institutions providing retail banking
services. This classification includes only those institutions engaged in the
on-site circulation of money, including credit unions, but excluding check-
cashing businesses.
   Check Cashing Businesses. Establishments that, for compensation, engage in
the business of cashing checks, warrants, drafts, money orders, or other
commercial paper serving the same purpose. This classification also includes
the business of deferred deposits, whereby the check casher refrains from
depositing a personal check written by a customer until a specific date
pursuant to a written agreement as provided in Civil Code 1789.33. Check
cashing businesses do not include State or Federally chartered banks, savings
associations, credit unions, or industrial loan companies. They also do not
include retail sellers engaged primarily in the business of selling consumer
goods, such as consumables to retail buyers, that cash checks or issue money
orders incidental to their main purpose or business.
Bed And Breakfast. A small lodging establishment that offers overnight
accommodation and inclusive breakfast, where the host lives at the
establishment.
Building Materials And Services. Retailing, wholesaling, or rental of building
supplies or equipment. This classification includes lumber yards, tool and
equipment sales or rental establishments, and includes establishments devoted
principally to taxable retail sales to individuals for their own use. This
definition does not include contractors' yards and hardware stores less than
ten thousand (10,000) square feet in floor area (see Retail Sales).
Business Services. Establishments that primarily provide goods and services to
other businesses on a fee or contract basis, including printing and copying,
blueprint services, advertising and mailing, equipment rental and leasing,
office security, custodial services, photo finishing, and model building, but
excluding vehicle rentals, bulk items, or print shops.
Cannabis Dispensary. See section
301.23 of this chapter, and the definitions for "cannabis dispensary or
dispensary" and "medical cannabis dispensary" located in section 15-85 of the
Municipal Code.
Cemetery. Establishments primarily engaged in operating sites or structures
reserved for the interment of human or animal remains, including mausoleums,
burial places, and memorial gardens.
Clubs And Lodges. Meeting, recreational, or social facilities of a private or
nonprofit organization primarily for use by members or guests. This
classification includes union halls and social clubs.
Colleges And Trade Schools, Public Or Private. Institutions of higher education
providing curricula of a general, religious or professional nature, typically
granting recognized degrees, including conference centers and academic retreats
associated with such institutions. This classification includes business and
computer schools, management training, technical and trade schools, but
excludes personal instructional services such as music lessons.
Commercial Entertainment And Recreation. Provision of participant or spectator
entertainment to the general public.
   Cinema/Theaters. Facilities for indoor display of films, motion pictures, or
dramatic, musical, or live performances. This classification may include
incidental food and beverage services to patrons.
   Downtown Entertainment. This classification includes facilities such as
amusement and theme parks, amphitheaters, facilities with more than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet in building area, including fitness centers,
gymnasiums, handball, racquetball, ice or roller skating rinks, swimming or
wave pools, miniature golf courses, bowling alleys, or archery or indoor
shooting ranges. This classification may include restaurants, snack bars, and
other incidental food and beverage services to patrons.
   Large-Scale. This classification includes large outdoor facilities such as
amusement and theme parks, casinos, sports stadiums and arenas, racetracks,
amphitheaters, drive-in theaters, driving ranges, golf courses, and facilities
with fifty thousand (50,000) square feet or more in building area, including
fitness centers, gymnasiums, handball, racquetball, or large tennis club
facilities; ice or roller skating rinks; swimming or wave pools; miniature golf
courses; bowling alleys; archery or indoor shooting ranges; riding stables;
campgrounds; stables, etc. This classification may include restaurants, snack
bars, and other incidental food and beverage services to patrons.
   Small-Scale. This classification includes indoor facilities that occupy less
than fifty thousand (50,000) square feet of building area, such as billiard
parlors, card rooms, health clubs, fitness centers, gymnasiums, handball,
racquetball; ice or roller skating rinks; swimming or wave pools; miniature
golf courses, bowling alleys, dance halls, small tennis club facilities,
poolrooms, indoor shooting ranges, and amusement arcades. This classification
may include restaurants, snack bars, and other incidental food and beverage
services to patrons.
Communication Facilities.
   Antenna And Transmission Towers. Broadcasting and other communication
services accomplished through electronic or telephonic mechanisms, as well as
structures designed to support one or more reception/transmission systems.
Examples of transmission towers include, but shall not be limited to, radio
towers, television towers, telephone exchange/microwave relay towers, and
cellular telephone transmission/personal communications systems towers.
   Broadcasting Facility. Includes radio or television stations. Transmission
towers must comply with section 301.20, "Telecommunication Facilities", of this
chapter.
   Call Centers. Includes customer support, direct sales, order processing,
customer service, surveys, research, credit management, help desk,
reservations, billing and accounting, sales and telemarketing. These services
are either provided internally by the company for its own use or provided
externally by an outsourcing agency which provide these services for several
companies.
   Recording Studio. Facility for sound recording which can consist of a studio
or live room and control room, where sound is recorded and manipulated.
Community Center. Any noncommercial facility established primarily for the
benefit and service of the population of the community in which it is located.
Examples include youth centers and senior centers.
Construction And Material Yards. Storage of construction materials or equipment
on a site other than a construction site.
Correctional Facility. A building such as a jail or prison used for the
confinement of persons held while awaiting trial or for the confinement of
persons convicted of offenses.
Cottage Food Operations. A private home food operation where low- risk food
products are prepared or packaged for sale to consumers which complies with
California Government Code section 51035.
Crop Cultivation. The cultivation of tree, vine, field, forage, and other plant
crops intended to provide food or fibers. The classification excludes wholesale
or retail nurseries. (See Nurseries And Garden Centers.)
Crop Cultivation, Commercial. Results in quantities of crops greater than what
could be reasonably consumed in personal use and/or crops that are produced
with the intent to sell commercially.
Crop Cultivation, Non-Commercial. Includes orchards and flower and vegetable
gardens for personal use.
Cultural Institutions. Public or non-profit institutions engaged primarily in
the display or preservation of objects of interest in the arts or sciences that
are open to the public on a regular basis. This classification includes
performing arts centers for theater, dance, and events; buildings of an
educational, charitable or philanthropic nature; libraries; museums; historical
sites; aquariums; art galleries; and zoos and botanical gardens.
Day Care Centers. Establishments providing non-medical care for persons on a
less than 24-hour basis other than family day care home. This classification
includes nursery schools, preschools, and day care facilities for children or
adults, and any other day care facility licensed by the State of California.
Eating, Drinking, And Smoking Establishments. Businesses primarily engaged in
serving prepared food, beverages, and/or tobacco for consumption on or off the
premises.
   Bars/Night Clubs/Lounges. Businesses serving beverages for consumption on
the premises as a primary use and including on-sale service of alcohol
including beer, wine, and mixed drinks. This classification includes
establishments that provide dancing or entertainment.
   Coffee Shops/Cafes. Establishments that serve nonalcoholic beverages, such
as coffee, juices or sodas for consumption on or near the premises, or a
specialty snack, such as ice cream, frozen yogurt, cookies or popcorn.
   Restaurants. Establishments where meals are served to customers. This
classification includes full-service restaurants with table service as well as
establishments providing limited table service, such as fast-food restaurants,
carryout sandwich shops, limited service pizza parlors and delivery shops, and
delicatessen restaurants. This classification excludes establishments that
provide dancing or entertainment (see Eating, Drinking, And Smoking
Establishments: Bars/Night Clubs/Lounges).
   Tobacco Bars. Any business establishment which in whole or in part is
dedicated to or includes as part of the business, the smoking of tobacco or
other substances. This classification includes cigar lounges, hookah bars/
cafes, tobacco cafes/bars, and smoking parlors.
Elderly And Long-Term Care. Establishments that provide twenty four (24) hour
medical, convalescent or chronic care to individuals who, by reason of advanced
age, chronic illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves, and is
licensed as a skilled nursing facility, by the, including but not limited to,
rest homes and convalescent hospitals, but not residential care, hospitals, or
clinics.
Family Day Care Home. A home that regularly provides care, protection, and
supervision for fourteen (14) or fewer children, in the provider's own home,
for periods of less than twenty four (24) hours per day, while the parents or
guardians are away, and is either a large family day care home or a small
family day care home as follows.
   A.   Large. A home that provides family day care for seven (7) to fourteen
(14) children, including children under the age of ten (10) years who reside at
the home 1 . A large family day care home may provide care for more than twelve
(12) children and up to and including fourteen (14) children, if all of the
following conditions are met 2 :
      1.   At least one child is enrolled in and attending kindergarten or
elementary school and a second child is at least six (6) years of age.
      2.   No more than three (3) infants are cared for during any time when
more than twelve (12) children are being cared for.
      3.   The licensee notifies a parent that the facility is caring for two
(2) additional school-age children and that there may be up to thirteen (13) or
fourteen (14) children in the home at one time.
      4.   The licensee obtains the written consent of the property owner when
the family day care home is operated on property that is leased or rented.
   B.   Small. A home that provides family day care for eight (8) or fewer
children, including children under the age of ten (10) years who reside at the
home 3 . A small family day care home may provide care for more than six (6)
and up to eight (8) children, without an additional adult attendant, if all of
the following conditions are met 4 :
      1.   At least one child is enrolled in and attending kindergarten or
elementary school and a second child is at least six (6) years of age.
      2.   No more than two (2) infants are cared for during any time when more
than six (6) children are cared for.
      3.   The licensee notifies each parent that the facility is caring for
two (2) additional school-age children and that there may be up to seven (7) or
eight (8) children in the home at one time.
      4.   The licensee obtains the written consent of the property owner when
the family day care home is operated on property that is leased or rented.
Food And Beverage Retail Sales. Retail sales of food and beverages for off-site
preparation and consumption. Typical uses include food markets, convenient
markets, groceries, liquor stores, and retail bakeries.
Freight/Truck Terminals And Warehouses. Facilities for local or worldwide
freight, courier, local messenger, and postal services by truck or rail.
Funeral Parlors And Mortuaries. An establishment primarily engaged in the
provision of services involving the care, preparation, or disposition of the
human dead and conducting memorial services. Typical uses include a crematory,
columbarium, mausoleum, or mortuary.
Government Offices. Administrative, clerical, or public contact offices of a
government agency, including postal facilities, together with incidental
storage and maintenance of vehicles. This classification excludes corporation
yards, equipment service centers, and similar facilities that primarily provide
maintenance and repair services and storage facilities for vehicles and
equipment (see Utilities, Major).
Group Residential. Shared living quarters without separate kitchen or bathroom
facilities for each room or unit, offered for rent for permanent or semi-
transient residents on a weekly or longer basis. This classification includes
rooming and boarding houses, dormitories, private residential clubs, and
residential hotels intended for long-term occupancy (30 days or more) but
excludes hotels and motels, residential care, limited or general.
Handicraft/Custom Manufacturing. Manufacture of crafts, art, sculpture, stained
glass, jewelry, apparel, and similar items using hand tools and small
mechanical devices.
Heliports. Facilities for the takeoff and landing of helicopters, as a primary
use. Heliports typically contain one or more helipads and may have limited
facilities such as fuel, lighting, a windsock, or even hangars.
Hotels And Motels. Establishments offering lodging to transient patrons. These
establishments may provide additional services, such as conference and meeting
rooms, restaurants, bars, or recreation facilities available to guests or to
the general public. This classification includes motor lodges, motels, hostels,
extended-stay hotels, and tourist courts, but does not include rooming houses,
boarding houses, or private residential clubs.
Industry, General. Manufacturing of products from extracted or raw materials or
recycled or secondary materials, or bulk storage and handling of such products
and materials. This classification includes operations such as biomass energy
conversion; food and beverage processing; textile mills; production apparel
manufacturing; photographic processing plants; leather and allied product
manufacturing; wood product manufacturing; paper manufacturing; chemical
manufacturing; plastics and rubber products manufacturing; nonmetallic mineral
product manufacturing; primary metal manufacturing; fabricated metal product
manufacturing; and automotive, ship, aircraft, and heavy equipment
manufacturing.
Industry, Limited. Establishments engaged in light industrial activities taking
place primarily within enclosed buildings and producing minimal impacts on
nearby properties. This classification includes operations such as
manufacturing finished parts or products primarily from previously prepared
materials; commercial laundries and dry cleaning plants; mobile home
manufacturing; monument works; printing, engraving and publishing; computer and
electronic product manufacturing; furniture and related product manufacturing;
and industrial services.
Instructional Services. Establishments that offer specialized programs in
personal growth and development such as music, vocal, fitness and dancing
instruction.
Light Fleet-Based Services. Passenger transportation services, local delivery
services, medical transport, and other businesses that rely on fleets of three
(3) or more vehicles with rated capacities less than ten thousand (10,000)
pounds. This classification includes parking, dispatching, and offices for
taxicab and limousine operations, non-emergency medical transport, local
messenger and document delivery services, home cleaning services, and similar
businesses. This classification does not include towing operations (see
Automobile/Vehicle Sales And Services: Towing And Impound) or taxi or delivery
services with two (2) or fewer fleet vehicles on-site (see Business Services).
Maintenance And Repair Services. The on-site maintenance or repair of office
machines, household appliances, furniture, and similar items. This
classification excludes maintenance and repair of vehicles or boats (see
Automobile/Vehicle Sales And Services) and personal apparel (see Personal
Services).
Massage Establishments. Healing arts.
Medical Facilities. These classifications exclude veterinary and animal
hospitals (see Animal Care, Sales And Services).
   Hospitals. State-licensed facilities providing medical, surgical,
psychiatric, or emergency medical services to sick or injured persons.
   Medical Clinic. This classification includes facilities for multiple
physicians, medical groups, inpatient or outpatient treatment, including
substance-abuse programs as well as training, research, and administrative
services for patients and employees.
   Professional/Medical. This classification is for the single practitioner; to
include offices where medical and dental services are provided by physicians,
dentists, chiropractors, optometrists, and similar medical professionals,
including, where affiliated with a medical practitioner, massage therapy.
Mining And Quarrying. The extraction of nonmetallic minerals, including
dredging and sand and gravel pit operations. This classification includes
surface mining operations.
Mobile Home Parks. Mobile housing in a planned development with common area
amenities. Spaces for mobile homes may be rented, leased or owned through a
subdivision, cooperative, condominium or other form of resident ownership.
Multi-Family Residential. Two (2) or more dwelling units on a lot. Types of
multiple family dwellings include duplexes, garden apartments, senior housing
developments, and multi-story apartment buildings.
Nurseries And Garden Centers. Establishments primarily engaged in retailing
nursery and garden products - such as trees, shrubs, plants, seeds, bulbs, and
sod - that are predominantly grown elsewhere. These establishments may sell a
limited amount of a product they grow themselves. Fertilizer and soil products
are stored and sold in package form only. This classification includes
wholesale and retail nurseries offering plants for sale.
Offices.
   General Offices. Offices of firms or organizations providing professional,
executive, management, administrative or design services, such as accounting,
architectural, computer software design, engineering, graphic design, interior
design, investment, and legal offices, excluding banks, and savings and loan
associations (see Banks And Financial Institutions).
   Walk-In Clientele. Offices of firms or organizations providing services to
the public that rely on heavy pedestrian activity and constant visits by
clients, including real estate offices, landlord-tenant services, credit
counseling, and financial tax services.
Park And Recreation Facilities, Public. Parks, playgrounds, fairgrounds,
recreation facilities, trails, wildlife preserves, and related open spaces, all
of which are noncommercial. This classification also includes playing fields,
courts, gymnasiums, swimming pools, picnic facilities, tennis courts, and golf
courses, botanical gardens, as well as related food concessions or community
centers within the facilities.
Parking, Public Or Private. Surface lots and structures for use of occupants,
employees, or patrons on the subject site or offering parking to the public for
a fee when such use is not incidental to another activity.
Personal Services. Provision of recurrently needed services of a personal
nature. This classification includes barber and beauty shops, massage therapy,
tattoo parlors, seamstresses, tailors, dry cleaning agents (excluding large-
scale bulk cleaning plants), shoe repair shops, self-service laundries,
photocopying and photo finishing services, and travel agencies.
Public Safety Facilities. Facilities providing public-safety and emergency
services, including police and fire protection and emergency medical services,
with incidental storage, and maintenance facilities.
Recycling Facility. A facility for receiving, temporarily storing, transferring
and/or processing materials for recycling, reuse, or final disposal. A
certified recycling facility or certified processor means a recycling facility
certified by the California Beverage Container Recycling and Litter Reduction
Act. A recycling facility does not include storage containers or processing
activity located on the premises of a residential, commercial or manufacturing
use and used solely for the recycling of material generated by that residential
property, business or manufacturer. This use type does not include waste
transfer facilities that operate as materials recovery, recycling, and solid
waste transfer operations and are classified as utilities.
Recycling Collection Facility. A use that serves as a neighborhood drop off
point for the temporary storage of recyclable materials but where the
processing and sorting of such items is not conducted on-site.
Recycling Processing Facility. Facilities that receive, sort, store and/or
process recyclable materials.
Reverse Vending Machine. An automated mechanical device that accepts, sorts and
processes recyclable materials and issues a cash refund or a redeemable credit
slip.
Religious Facilities. A facility for religious worship and incidental religious
education and offices, including churches, temples, and other facilities used
primarily for religious services or activities. This classification excludes
private schools for primary or secondary education, as defined in this section,
which also may be available for temporary use by the general public or civic,
cultural, or educational organizations.
Residential Care Facilities, General. Facilities that require a State license
or are State licensed and provide twenty four (24) hour primarily non-medical
care and supervision, or skilled nursing services, for more than six (6)
persons in need of personal services, supervision, protection, or assistance
for sustaining the activities of daily living. Living accommodations are shared
living quarters with or without separate kitchen or bathroom facilities for
each room or unit. This classification includes facilities that are operated
for profit as well as those operated by public or not-for-profit institutions,
including hospices, nursing homes, skilled nursing facilities, and convalescent
facilities. This category excludes transitional housing, foster family homes,
community service facilities, and any facilities supervised by or under
contract with the State Department of Corrections.
Residential Care Facilities, Limited. Facilities that require a State license
or are State licensed and provide twenty four (24) hour non-medical care and
supervision for six (6) or fewer persons in need of personal services,
supervision, protection, or assistance for sustaining the activities of daily
living, excluding the licensee or members of the licensee's family or persons
employed as facility staff. Living accommodations are shared living quarters
with or without separate kitchen or bathroom facilities for each room or unit.
This classification includes facilities that are operated for profit as well as
those operated by public or not-for-profit institutions, including hospices.
Retail Sales. The retail sale or rental of merchandise not specifically listed
under another use classification. This classification includes department
stores, clothing stores, furniture stores, pet supply stores, small hardware
stores (with 10,000 square feet or less of floor area), and businesses
retailing the following goods: toys, hobby materials, handcrafted items,
jewelry, cameras, photographic supplies and services (including portraiture and
retail photo processing), medical supplies and equipment, pharmacies,
electronic equipment, records, sporting goods, kitchen utensils, hardware,
appliances, antiques, art galleries, art supplies and services, paint and
wallpaper, carpeting and floor covering, office supplies, bicycles, video
rental, and new automotive parts and accessories (excluding vehicle service and
installation). Retail sales may be combined with other services such as office
machine, computer, electronics, and similar small-item repairs. This
classification includes secondhand and wholesale stores.
Swap Meet. Any indoor or outdoor place, in an approved location, or for an
approved activity where new or used goods or secondhand personal property is
offered for sale or exchange to the general public by a multitude of individual
licensed vendors, usually in compartmentalized spaces. The term swap meet is
interchangeable with and applicable to: flea markets, auctions, open air
markets, farmers markets, or other similarly named or labeled activities; but
the term does not include the usual supermarket or department store retail
operations.
Salvage And Wrecking. Storage and dismantling of vehicles and equipment for
sale of parts, as well as their collection, storage, exchange or sale of goods
including, but not limited to, any used building materials, used containers or
steel drums, used tires, and similar or related articles or property.
Schools, Public Or Private. Facilities for primary or secondary education,
including public schools, charter schools, and private institutions having
curricula comparable to that required in the public schools of the State of
California.
Sexually Oriented Business. An establishment or concern that, as a regular and
substantial course of conduct, offers, sells or distributes adult-oriented
merchandise, or that offers to its patrons materials, products, merchandise,
services, entertainment or performances that have sexual arousal, sexual
gratification, and/or sexual stimulation as their dominant theme, or are
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and are not customarily open to the general public because
they exclude minors by virtue of their age. This classification does not
include any establishment offering professional services conducted, operated,
or supervised by medical practitioners, physical therapists, nurses,
chiropractors, psychologist, social workers, marriage and family counselors,
osteopaths, and persons holding licenses or certificates under applicable State
law or accreditation from recognized programs when performing functions
pursuant to the respective license or certificate. Includes sexually oriented
businesses defined in subsection
301.17B, "Definitions", of this chapter.
Single Family Dwelling. A dwelling unit designed for occupancy by one
household, and located on a separate lot from any other unit (except accessory
living quarters, where permitted). This classification includes individual
manufactured housing units installed on a foundation system pursuant to section
18551 of the California Health and Safety Code.
   Attached. A single-family dwelling unit, located singly on a lot, but
attached through common vertical walls to one or more dwellings on abutting
lots. An attached single-family dwelling unit is sometimes referred to as a
“townhome”.
   Detached. A single-family dwelling unit that is not attached to any other
dwelling unit.
Single Room Occupancy. A residential facility where individual secure rooms,
which may or may not include cooking facilities, are rented to one or two (2)
person households for a weekly or monthly period of time. This use type is
distinct from a hotel or motel, which is a commercial use.
Social Service Facilities. Any noncommercial facility, such as homeless
shelters, and emergency shelters, that may also provide meals, showers, and/or
laundry facilities. Specialized programs and services related to the needs of
the residents may also be provided. This classification excludes transitional
housing facilities that provide living accommodations for a longer term. This
classification includes interim housing options such as navigation centers,
bridge housing, and respite and recuperative care.
Transitional And Supportive Housing. As defined in sections 50675.2 and
50675.14, respectively, of the Health and Safety Code.
Transportation Passenger Terminals. Facilities for passenger transportation
operations. This classification includes rail stations, bus terminals, and
scenic and sightseeing facilities, but does not include airports or heliports.
Utilities, Major. Generating plants, electric substations, solid waste
collection, including transfer stations and materials recovery (recycling
processing) facilities, solid waste treatment and disposal, water or wastewater
treatment plants, and similar facilities of public agencies or public
utilities.
Utilities, Minor. Facilities accessory to an established use involving only
minor structures, such as electrical distribution lines, solar panels and
underground water and sewer lines.
Utilities, Renewable Energy Facility. Facilities including solar, wind or other
facility utilizing renewable energy.
Warehousing And Storage. Storage and distribution facilities without sales to
the public on-site or direct public access.
   Chemical, Mineral, And Explosives Storage. Storage of hazardous materials
including but not limited to: bottled gas, chemicals, minerals and ores,
petroleum or petroleum- based fuels, fireworks, and explosives.
   Indoor Warehousing And Storage. The storage of general merchandise or
refrigerated goods within enclosed buildings. Establishments in this
classification provide facilities to store commercial goods, but do not sell
the goods they handle. They may provide a range of services related to the
distribution of goods, including labeling, breaking bulk, inventory control and
management, order entry and fulfillment, price marking and ticketing, and
transportation arrangement. However, they always provide warehousing or storage
in addition to any logistics services.
   Personal Storage. Facilities offering storage for individual use, including
mini-warehouses and mini-storage.
Wholesaling And Distribution. Indoor storage and sale of goods to other firms
for resale; storage of goods for transfer to retail outlets of the same firm;
or storage and sale of materials and supplies used in production or operation,
including janitorial and restaurant supplies. Wholesalers are primarily engaged
in business-to-business sales, but may sell to individual consumers through
mail or internet orders. They normally operate from a warehouse or office
having little or no display of merchandise, and are not designed to solicit
walk-in traffic.
(Ord. 1854, 5-7-2019; amd. Ord. 1909, 1-21-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC § 1596.78(b).
2 2. HSC § 1597.465.
3 1. HSC § 1596.78(c).
4 2. HSC § 1597.44.
CHAPTER 22
TAXATION
ARTICLE I. PROPERTY TAXATION
SECTION:
22-1: Reserved
22-1.1: State Revenue And Taxation Code Adopted By Reference
22-1.2: Transfer Of Municipal Tax Assessments And Collection Duties To Tulare
County Tax Assessor And Tax Collector
22-1: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 920 § 1, 7-16-1968)
22-1.1: STATE REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The Revenue and Taxation Code of the state of California, as now in effect and
as may hereafter be amended, is hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 764 § 1, 5-
21-1963)
22-1.2: TRANSFER OF MUNICIPAL TAX ASSESSMENTS AND COLLECTION DUTIES TO TULARE
COUNTY TAX ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and expressions when used in this
section shall, for the purpose of this section, have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them as follows:
   CITY: The city of Porterville, a municipal corporation, situated in the
county of Tulare, state of California.
   COUNTY: The county of Tulare, a political subdivision of the state of
California.
   B.   Transfer Of Duties: The assessment and tax collection of assessments
levied for municipal improvements, now performed by the assessor and tax
collector of the city, are hereby transferred to the assessor and tax collector
of the county for the purpose of assessment and collection of and for ad
valorem property taxes that become a lien after the adoption of this section,
and the collection of assessments for municipal improvements becoming due and
payable on or after July 1, 1967, pursuant to the provisions of sections 51540
through 51562 and sections 51800 and 43072 of the Government Code of the state
of California.
   C.   Filing Of Certified Copy: The city clerk shall cause a certified copy
of this section to be filed with the auditor of the county on or before the
first Monday of February, 1967, and immediately thereafter shall notify the
state board of equalization.
   D.   Repealing: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are hereby repealed. (Ord. 872 §§ 1 – 4, 1-17-1967)
ARTICLE II. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
22-2: Purpose Of Article
22-3: Operative Date; Contract With State
22-4: Sales Tax Generally
22-5: Use Tax Generally
22-6: Amendments To State Law
22-6.1: Reserved
22-7: Suits To Enjoin Collection
22-2: PURPOSE OF ARTICLE:
The city council hereby declares that this article is adopted to achieve the
following, among other, purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   A.   To adopt a sales and use tax regulation which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code of the state.
   B.   To adopt a sales and use tax regulation which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the sales and use tax law of the state insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   C.   To adopt a sales and use tax regulation which imposes a ninety five
one-hundredths of one percent (0.95%) tax and provides a measure therefor that
can be administered and collected by the state board of equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the state board of equalization in administering and collecting the
state sales and use taxes.
   D.   To adopt a sales and use tax regulation which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible, be consistent with the provisions of
part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting city sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 614 § 2; Ord. 638 § 1)
22-3: OPERATIVE DATE; CONTRACT WITH STATE:
This article shall become operative on April 1, 1956, and prior thereto, the
city shall contract with the state board of equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this sales and use
tax article; provided, that if this city shall not have contracted with the
state board of equalization, as above set forth, prior to April 1, 1956, this
article shall not be operative until the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract by the city and by the state
board of equalization; provided further, that this article shall not become
operative prior to the operative date of the uniform local sales and use tax
ordinance of the county. (Ord. 614 § 3)
22-4: SALES TAX GENERALLY:
   A.   1. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail a
tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate of ninety five
one-hundredths of one percent (0.95%) of the gross receipts of the retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the city on
and after the operative date of this article.
      2.   For the purposes of this article, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of state destination
or to a common carrier to an out of state destination. The gross receipts from
such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the
state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In
the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has
more than one place of business, the places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the board of equalization.
   B.   1. Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of such code, as
amended and in force and effect on April 1, 1956, applicable to sales taxes are
hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth
herein.
      2.   Whenever, and to the extent that, in part 1 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code the state is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require the substitution of the name of the city for the
word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state
controller, the state treasurer, the state board of control, the state board of
equalization, or the name of the state treasury, or of the constitution of the
state; nor shall the name of the city be substituted for that of the state in
any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against the city or any agency thereof, rather than by or against
the state board of equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this article; and neither shall the substitution
be deemed to have been made in those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the state where
the result of the substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax
with respect to certain gross receipts which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while those gross receipts remain subject to tax by the state under
the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; nor to
impose this tax with respect to certain gross receipts which would not be
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of such code; and, in
addition, the name of the city shall not be substituted for that of the state
in sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 and 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code as adopted.
      3.   If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section
6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller's permit shall not
be required by reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the tax is
measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   Receipts from sales to operators of common carrier and waterborne
vessels of property to be used or consumed in the operation of such common
carriers or waterborne vessels principally outside of this city.
The following provisions shall be operative January 1, 1984:
4.5. There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the tax is
measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state of
California upon a retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this state, the United States, or any foreign government. (Ord. 614 § 4; Ord.
638 § 2; Ord. 706 § 4; Ord. 1048 §§ A, B, 11-20-1973; Ord. 1292 §§ 1, 3, 12-20-
1983; Ord. 1537 § B70, 8-6-1996)
22-5: USE TAX GENERALLY:
   A.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the city of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on or after the operative date of this article, for storage, use or
other consumption in the city at the rate of ninety five one-hundredths of one
percent (0.95%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
   B.   1. Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of such code, as
amended and in force and effect on April 1, 1956, applicable to use taxes are
hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth
herein.
      2.   Whenever, and to the extent that, in part 1 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code the state is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this
subsection shall be deemed to require the substitution of the name of the city
for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state
controller, the state treasurer, the state board of control, the state board of
equalization, or the name of the state treasury, or of the constitution of the
state; nor shall the name of the city be substituted for that of the state in
any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against the state board of equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this article; and
neither shall the substitution be deemed to have been made in those sections,
including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the state, where the result of the substitution would be to
provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property that would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such storage, use or other consumption remains
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with respect to certain
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the state under the provisions of such code; and in
addition, the name of the city shall not be substituted for that of the state
in sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 and 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code as adopted, and the name of the
city shall not be substituted for the word "state" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this state" in section 6203, nor in the definition of
that phrase in section 6203.
      3.   There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with part 1.5 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county or
city in this state.
         c.   The storage or use of tangible personal property in the
transportation or transmission of persons, property or communications, or in
the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity or in the
manufacture, transmission or distribution of gas in intrastate, interstate or
foreign commerce by public utilities which are regulated by the public
utilities commission of the state.
         d.   The use or consumption of property purchased by operators of
common carriers and waterborne vessels to be used or consumed in the operation
of such common carriers or waterborne vessels principally outside the city.
The following provisions shall be operative January 1, 1984:
3.5. There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state of
California upon a retailer or consumer.
         b.   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with part 1.5 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or
city in this state.
         c.   In addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, the storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this state, the United States, or any foreign government. (Ord. 614 § 5; Ord.
706 §§ 5, 6; Ord. 1048 § C, 11-20-1973; Ord. 1292 §§ 2, 4, 12-20-1983; Ord.
1537 § B71, 8-6-1996)
22-6: AMENDMENTS TO STATE LAW:
All amendments of the Revenue and Taxation Code enacted subsequent to the
effective date of this article which relate to the sales and use tax and which
are not inconsistent with part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code shall automatically become a part of this article. (Ord. 614 § 6)
22-6.1: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1537 § A, 8-6-1996)
22-7: SUITS TO ENJOIN COLLECTION:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or this
city, or against any officer of the state or this city, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this article, or part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.
614 § 7)
   22-2A.txt ()CHAPTER 22
   TAXATION
ARTICLE IIA. TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY, POLICE AND FIRE
PROTECTION
SECTION:
22-8.1: Title; Purpose
22-8.2: Operative Date
22-8.3: Contract With State
22-8.4: Imposition Of Transactions Tax
22-8.5: Presumption As To Place Of Sales
22-8.6: Imposition Of Use Tax
22-8.7: Adoption Of Certain Sections Of California Revenue And Taxation Code By
Reference
22-8.8: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes
22-8.9: Permit Not Required
22-8.10: Exemptions And Exclusions
22-8.11: Amendments To Revenue And Taxation Code
22-8.12: Enjoining Collection Prohibited
22-8.1: TITLE; PURPOSE:
This article shall be known as the TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY,
POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION. The city of Porterville hereinafter shall be called
"city". This article shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
city. This article of this code has been adopted for the following (and other)
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:
   A.   To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.91 of part 1.7 of division 2, which
authorizes the city to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if at
least two- thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.
   B.   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the sales and use tax law of the state of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   C.   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
state board of equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the state board of
equalization in administering and collecting the California state transactions
and use taxes.
   D.   To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the
provisions of parts 1.6 and 1.7 of division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting city transactions and use taxes, and at
the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions thereof.
   E.   To provide a source of revenue to be used to provide additional public
safety, police, fire protection services and undertake necessary capital
projects to support those services, and to restore and maintain literacy
programs and services. The revenue generated by the tax provided for herein
shall be restricted to those uses. The tax is, therefore, a special tax. (Ord.
1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.2: OPERATIVE DATE:
"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than one hundred ten (110) days after the adoption of this article, the
date of such adoption being set forth in the ordinance codified herein. (Ord.
1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.3: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the state board of
equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation hereof. If the city has not contracted with the state board of
equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and
in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract. The council may make any
technical amendments to this article required by the state board of
equalization, except for any changes affecting the tax rate, its manner of
collection, or the purpose for which the revenue from the tax may be used.
(Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.4: IMPOSITION OF TRANSACTIONS TAX:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of the
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
city of Porterville on and after the operative date of this article. The city
council is authorized to establish a tax rate of one- half of one percent
(0.5%) by resolution. (Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.5: PRESUMPTION AS TO PLACE OF SALES:
For the purposes of this article, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out of state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the board of equalization. (Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.6: IMPOSITION OF USE TAX:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in
the city of Porterville of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on or after the operative date of this article for storage, use or
other consumption in said territory, at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.5%) of the sales price of the property subject to the tax. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
transactions or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. The
city council is authorized to establish a tax rate of one-half of one percent
(0.5%) by resolution. (Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.7: ADOPTION OF CERTAIN SECTIONS OF CALIFORNIA REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE BY
REFERENCE:
Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of parts 1.6 and 1.7 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of part 1 (commencing with section 6001)
of division 2 of said code, as amended and in force and effect on the operative
date of this article, applicable to use taxes are hereby adopted and made a
part of this section as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-
2005)
22-8.8: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:
In adopting the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:
   A.   Wherever the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this city shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
      1.   The word "state" is used as a part of the title of the state
controller, state treasurer, state board of control, state board of
equalization, state treasury, or the constitution of the state of California.
      2.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the state board of equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this article.
      3.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the state of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
         a.   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the state under the provisions of part 1
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or
         b.   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.
      4.   In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   B.   The word "city" shall be substituted for the word "state" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this state" in section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in section 6203. (Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.9: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this article. (Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.10: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the state of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns uniform local sales and use tax law or the amount of any state
administered transactions or use tax.
   B.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:
      1.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.
      2.   Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a
point outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this subsection
B2, delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:
         a.   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of
division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
chapters 1 and 2 of division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code by registration to an out of city address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and
         b.   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out of city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      3.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this article.
      4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this article.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections B3 and B4 of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   C.   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this article, the
storage, use or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:
      1.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
      2.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the state of
California.
      3.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
article.
      4.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this article.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections C3 and C4 of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      6.   Except as provided in subsection C7 of this section, a retailer
engaged in business in the city shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the city or participates within the city in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the
retailer.
      7.   "A retailer engaged in business in the city" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under chapters 1 and 2 of division 3.5
(commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the city.
   D.   Any person subject to use tax under this article may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to part
1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax. (Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.11: AMENDMENTS TO REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE:
All amendments subsequent to the effective date hereof to part 1 of division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with part 1.6 and part 1.7 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to part 1.6 and part 1.7 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this article;
provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the
rate of tax imposed by this article. (Ord. 1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
22-8.12: ENJOINING COLLECTION PROHIBITED:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the state or this
city, or against any officer of the state or this city, to prevent or enjoin
the collection hereunder, or parts 1.6 and 1.7 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.
1684 § 1, 12-6-2005)
   22-02B.txt ()CHAPTER 22
   TAXATION
ARTICLE IIB. TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
SECTION:
22-9.1: Title
22-9.2: Definitions
22-9.3: Purpose
22-9.4: Contract With State
22-9.5: Transactions Tax Rate
22-9.6: Place Of Sale
22-9.7: Use Tax Rate
22-9.8: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
22-9.9: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes
22-9.10: Permit Not Required
22-9.11: Exemptions And Exclusions
22-9.12: Amendments
22-9.13: Prohibition On Enjoining Collection
22-9.14: Severability
22-9.15: Effective Date
22-9.16: Accountability And Oversight
22-9.1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the CITY OF PORTERVILLE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
ORDINANCE OF 2018. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall be defined as set forth in this article,
except that any term or phrase not defined in this article shall have the same
meaning as that term or phrase is defined in parts 1.6 and 1.7 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code:
   CITY: Means City of Porterville.
   OPERATIVE DATE: Means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than one hundred ten (110) days after the adoption of this ordinance by
vote of the electorate on November 6, 2018.
   ORDINANCE: Means the City of Porterville Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance
of 2018.
   STATE: Means the State of California. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.3: PURPOSE:
This article is adopted for the following (and among other) purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted liberally in order to
accomplish all of its lawful purposes:
   A.   To impose a Retail Transactions and Use Tax in accordance with the
provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7251 et seq., and
section 7285.9, which authorizes the City to adopt this article if a majority
of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax
at an election called for that purpose.
   B.   To adopt a Retail Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   C.   To adopt a Retail Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Transactions and Use Taxes.
   D.   To adopt a Retail Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the
provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting the Transactions and Use Taxes, and at
the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this article.
   E.   To provide Transactions and Use Tax revenue to the City to be used for
the general governmental purposes of the City and with any Transactions and Use
Tax revenue received being placed into the City's General Fund. (Ord. 1850, 12-
10-2018)
22-9.4: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this article; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.5: TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a
Transactions Tax is imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of
the City at the rate of one percent (1.0%) of the gross receipts of the
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within
the territory of the City on and after the operative date of this article.
(Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.6: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purposes of this article, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-State destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-State destination. The gross receipts
from the sale shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the State Sales and Use Tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the Board of Equalization. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.7: USE TAX RATE:
An Excise Tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in
the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on or after
the operative date of this article for storage, use or other consumption in
said territory of the City at the rate of one percent (1.0%) of the sales price
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to State Transactions or Use Tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.8: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of part 1 (commencing with section 6001) of division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code are adopted, incorporated and made a part of this
article as though fully set forth in it. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.9: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:
In adopting the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code:
   A.   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of the City of Porterville shall be substituted. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
      1.   The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;
      2.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against the City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this article;
      3.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
         a.   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of part 1
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;
         b.   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the State under the said provision of that code;
      4.   In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.
   B.   The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in section 6203. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.10: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall
not be required by this article. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.11: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   There shall be excluded from the measure of the Transactions Tax and
the Use Tax the amount of any Sales Tax or Use Tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-
administered Transactions or Use Tax.
   B.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of Transactions
Tax the gross receipts from:
      1.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
      2.   Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:
         a.   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of
division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
chapter 2 of division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and
         b.   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      3.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this article.
      4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this article.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections B3 and B4 of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   C.   There are exempted from the Use Tax imposed by this article, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:
      1.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
Transactions Tax under any State-administered Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance.
      2.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.
      3.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
article.
      4.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this article.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections C3 and C4 of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      6.   Except as provided in subsection C7 of this section, a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect Use Tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.
      7.   "A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under division 3.5 (commencing with
section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
Use Tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.
   D.   Any person subject to Use Tax under this article may credit against
that tax any Transactions Tax or reimbursement for Transactions Tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a Transactions Tax pursuant to part
1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the Use Tax. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.12: AMENDMENTS:
All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this article to part 1 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to Sales and Use Taxes and
which are not inconsistent with part 1.6 and part 1.7 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to part 1.6 and part 1.7 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become adopted
and a part of this article without further action of the City Council of the
City of Porterville or the City's electorate, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
article. The City Council may amend this article to comply with applicable law
or as may be otherwise necessary in order to further this article's stated
purposes. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.13: PROHIBITION ON ENJOINING COLLECTION:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the State or the
City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this article, or part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected under
this article. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.14: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this article or the application of it to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this article and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.15: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article relates to the levying and collection of the City's Transactions
and Use Taxes and shall become effective only if approved by a majority of the
voters voting on the measure at the November 6, 2018, Special Municipal
Election. The operative date of this article shall then be as defined in
section 22-9.2 of this article. (Ord. 1850, 12-10-2018)
22-9.16: ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT:
This article authorizes the Transactions and Use Tax Oversight Committee,
formed pursuant to Resolution 24-2006, to act as an independent citizen's
oversight committee for the expenditure of all funds collected by the
Porterville Public Safety and Essential City Services Measure. The committee
has been responsible for accountability and public oversight regarding
expenditures of Measure H funds since the measure was passed in 2005. The
committee shall now conduct spending oversight for all funds collected from the
Porterville Public Safety and Essential City Services Measure. The committee
shall conduct spending oversight pursuant to the procedures in Resolution 24-
2006, and said provisions shall be incorporated herein by reference. (Ord.
1850, 12-10-2018)
ARTICLE III. TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
22-10: Title
22-11: Definitions
22-12: Amount Of Tax; Payment By Transient
22-13: Exemptions
22-14: Operator's Duties
22-15: Registration
22-16: Reporting And Remitting
22-17: Remittance By Mail
22-18: Penalties And Interest; Original Delinquency
22-19: Penalties And Interest; Continued Delinquency
22-20: Penalties And Interest; Fraud
22-21: Penalties And Interest; Interest
22-22: Penalties Merged With Tax
22-23: Failure To Collect And Report Tax; Determination Of Tax By Tax
Administrator
22-24: Deficiency Determinations
22-25: Appeal
22-26: Records
22-27: Refunds
22-28: Actions To Collect
22-29: Violations; Misdemeanor
22-10: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the UNIFORM TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX LAW OF THE
CITY OF PORTERVILLE. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-11: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this article:
   HOTEL: Any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel
studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed
location, or other similar structure or portion thereof.
"Hotel" does not include a hospital room, medical clinic, convalescent home or
home for the aged. Also, "hotel" does not include a private home, vacation
cabin or similar facility which is rented by a person who is not regularly
engaged in the business of renting such facilities and does so only
occasionally and incidentally to his own use thereof.
   OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or rooms or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes.
   OPERATOR: The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other
capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be
deemed an operator for the purposes of this article and shall have the same
duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
article by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliance by both.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RENT: The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy
of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,
labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and
services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The administrative services director or designee of the
city of Porterville.
   TRANSIENT: Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a
period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of
calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel shall
be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) days has expired
unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant
providing for a longer period of occupancy. In determining whether a person is
a transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and subsequent
to the effective date of this article may be considered. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-
1965; Ord. 1614 § 1, 9-17-2002)
22-12: AMOUNT OF TAX; PAYMENT BY TRANSIENT:
For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel/motel, each transient is subject to
and shall pay a tax in the amount of eight percent (8%) of the rent charged by
the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city
which debt is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The
transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel/motel at the time the
rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the
tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel/motel. If for any reason the
tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel/motel, such tax shall be paid
directly to the tax administrator. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965; Ord. 895 § A, 1-4-
1968; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973; Ord. 1443 § A, 10-2-1990)
22-13: EXEMPTIONS:
No tax shall be imposed upon the following persons and occupancies:
   A.   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the
power of the county to impose the tax herein provided.
   B.   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason
of express provision of federal law or international treaty.
   C.   Any occupancy, by one or more occupants, for which the total rent paid
by the occupants is less than two dollars ($2.00) a day.
No exemption shall be granted under subsection A or B of this section unless a
claim of exemption in the form prescribed by the tax collector is executed by
the transient under penalty of perjury and filed with the operator at the time
rent is collected. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965; Ord. 837 § A, 10-21-1967)
22-14: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this article to the same extent
and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount
of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and each
transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No operator of
a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly,
that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator,
or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be
refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-15: REGISTRATION:
Within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, or within thirty (30)
days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel
renting occupancy to transients shall register said hotel with the tax
administrator and obtain from him a "transient occupancy registration
certificate" to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
Said registration shall be on a form provided by the tax administrator.
The privilege of registration after the date of imposition of the tax provided
in this article shall not relieve any person from the obligation of collection
and payment of the tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless
of registration.
Such registration form shall set forth the name under which such person
transacts or intends to transact business, the location of his place or places
of business and such other information to facilitate the collection of the tax
as the tax administrator may require. The registration form shall be signed by
the owner if a natural person, by a member or partner in case of an association
or partnership, and by an executive officer or some person specifically
authorized by the corporation to sign the registration form in the case of a
corporation. The tax administrator shall, within ten (10) days after receiving
such registration form, issue without charge, the "transient occupancy
registration certificate".
Said certificate shall certify as to the authority of registrant to collect tax
from transients, and duplicates thereof for each additional place of business
of such registrants shall also be issued. Such certificates shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
tax administrator upon the cessation of business at the location named or upon
sale or transfer of the hotel. Said certificates shall contain the following
information:
   A.   The name of the operator.
   B.   The address of the hotel.
   C.   The date upon which the certificate was issued.
   D.   The following statement:
This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the uniform
transient occupancy tax law by registering with the tax administrator for the
purpose of collecting from transients the transient occupancy tax and remitting
said tax to the tax administrator. This certificate does not authorize any
person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an
unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all
local applicable laws, including, but not limited to, those requiring a permit
from any board commission, department or office of this city. This certificate
does not constitute a permit.
   E.   That said certificate is nonassignable and nontransferable.
   F.   Such additional information as may be required by the tax
administrator. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-16: REPORTING AND REMITTING:
Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close
of each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting period which
may be established by the tax administrator, make a return to the tax
administrator, on forms provided by him, of the total rents charged and
received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to
the tax administrator. The tax administrator may establish shorter reporting
periods for any certificate holder if he deems it necessary in order to ensure
collection of the tax, and he may require further information in the return.
Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this article shall be held
for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the tax
administrator. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-17: REMITTANCE BY MAIL:
If a remittance to cover a payment required by this article to be made to the
tax administrator on or before a specified date is sent through the United
States mail, properly addressed with postage prepaid, it shall be deemed to
have been received by the tax administrator on the date shown by the post
office cancellation mark stamped upon the envelope containing the remittance or
on the date it was mailed if proof satisfactory to the tax administrator
establishes that the mailing occurred on an earlier date. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as constituting payment of any remittance required,
unless such remittance is actually received by the tax administrator. (Ord. 807
§ 1, 1-1-1965)
22-18: PENALTIES AND INTEREST; ORIGINAL DELINQUENCY:
Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this article within the time
required shall pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax in
addition to the amount of the tax. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-19: PENALTIES AND INTEREST; CONTINUED DELINQUENCY:
Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a period
of thirty (30) days following the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten percent
(10%) penalty first imposed. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-20: PENALTIES AND INTEREST; FRAUD:
If the tax administrator determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due
under this article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in sections 22-18 and 22-19 of this article. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-21: PENALTIES AND INTEREST; INTEREST:
In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this article shall pay interest at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.5%) per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-22: PENALTIES MERGED WITH TAX:
Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of
sections
22-18 through
22-21 of this article shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
paid. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-23: FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY TAX
ADMINISTRATOR:
If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect said tax and to make, within
the time provided in this article, any report and remittance of said tax or any
portion thereof required by this article, the tax administrator shall proceed
in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to
base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the tax administrator shall
procure such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to base
the assessment of any tax imposed by this article and payable by any operator
who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such report and
remittance, he shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the
tax, interest and penalties provided for by this article. In case such
determination is made, the tax administrator shall give a notice of the amount
so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his last known
place of address. Such operator may within ten (10) days after the serving or
mailing of such notice make application in writing to the tax administrator for
a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing
is not made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest, and penalties, if
any, determined by the tax administrator shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the tax administrator
shall give not less than five (5) days' written notice in the manner prescribed
herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice
why said amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest
and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why
such specified tax, interest, and penalties should not be so fixed. After such
hearing the tax administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and
shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed
herein of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest, and
penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen (15)
days unless an appeal is taken as provided in section
22-25 of this article. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-24: DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
If the tax administrator is not satisfied with a return filed by an operator or
the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city pursuant to a return, he
may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of the
facts contained in the return or upon the basis of any information within his
possession or that may come into his possession, one or more deficiency
determination may be made of the amount due for any period. The tax
administrator shall give to the operator written notice of his determination in
the same manner as provided in section
22-23 of this article. The operator shall be entitled to apply for a hearing on
the amount assessed to him pursuant to the procedure set forth in section
22-23 of this article and shall thereafter be entitled to appeal to the city
council in accordance with the provisions of section
22-25 of this article. The penalties and interest provided by sections
22-18 through
22-22 of this article shall be applicable to the amount of deficiency
established pursuant to this section. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-25: APPEAL:
Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the tax administrator with respect to
the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the city
council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen (15)
days of the serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The city
council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the city clerk
shall give notice in writing to such operator at his last known place of
address. The findings of the city council shall be final and conclusive and
shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above for service
of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and
payable upon the service of notice. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-26: RECORDS:
It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to
the city of any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period
of three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the
city, which records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at
all reasonable times. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-27: REFUNDS:
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this article it may be refunded as provided in
subsections B and C of this section, provided a verified claim in writing
therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the
claim is founded, is filed with the tax administrator within three (3) years of
the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the tax
administrator.
   B.   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the tax administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient to the operator.
   C.   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a
claim in the manner provided in subsection A of this section, but only when the
tax was paid by the transient directly to the tax administrator, or when the
transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction
of the tax administrator that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund
from the operator who collected the tax.
   D.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
22-28: ACTIONS TO COLLECT:
Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this
article shall be deemed a debt owned by the transient to the city. Any such tax
collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a
debt owned by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the city
under the provisions of this article shall be liable to an action brought in
the name of the city of Porterville for the recovery of such amount. (Ord. 807
§ 1, 1-1-1965)
22-29: VIOLATIONS; MISDEMEANOR:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the city or county jail for a
period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as required
herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses
to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the tax
administrator, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and is punishable as aforesaid. Any person required to make,
render, sign or verify any report or claim who makes any false or fraudulent
report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount
due required by this article to be made, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is
punishable as aforesaid. (Ord. 807 § 1, 1-1-1965)
ARTICLE IV. REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX
SECTION:
22-31: Title; Statutory Authority For Adoption
22-32: Tax Imposed; Rate
22-33: Persons Responsible For Payment Of Tax
22-34: Tax Not Applicable To Instrument Securing Debt
22-35: Exemptions
22-36: Reorganization Or Adjustment Plans; Conveyance Exempted
22-37: Securities And Exchange Commission Orders; Conveyance Exempted
22-38: Partnership Realty
22-39: Administration Of Article By County Recorder
22-31: TITLE; STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR ADOPTION:
This article shall be known as the REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF PORTERVILLE. It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in part
6.7 (commencing with section 11901) of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the state of California. (Ord. 894 § 1, 12-5-1967)
22-32: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements, or other realty sold within the city of Porterville shall be
granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the
purchaser or purchasers, or any other person or persons by his or their
direction, a tax at a rate to be fixed by resolution of the city council. (Ord.
894 § 2, 12-5-1967; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
22-33: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT OF TAX:
Any tax imposed pursuant to section
22-32 of this article shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues
any document or instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the
same is made, signed or issued. (Ord. 894 § 3, 12-5-1967)
22-34: TAX NOT APPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENT SECURING DEBT:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to any instrument in
writing given to secure a debt. (Ord. 894 § 4, 12-5-1967)
22-35: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Any deed, instrument or writing to which the United States or any
agency or instrumentality thereof, any state or territory, or political
subdivision thereof, is a party shall be exempt from any tax imposed pursuant
to this article when the exempt agency is acquiring title.
   B.   Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to any
exemptions required by Revenue and Taxation Code sections 11926, 11927, 11928
and 11929. (Ord. 1537 § B72, 8-6-1996)
22-36: REORGANIZATION OR ADJUSTMENT PLANS; CONVEYANCE EXEMPTED:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to the making,
delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:
   A.   Confirmed under the federal bankruptcy act, as amended;
   B.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
railroad corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of section 205 of title 11
of the United States Code, as amended;
   C.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of section 506 of title 11 of the
United States Code, as amended; or
   D.   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization is
affected.
Subsections A to D, inclusive, of this section shall only apply if the making,
delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyance occurs within five
(5) years from the date of such confirmation, approval or change. (Ord. 894 §
6, 12-5-1967)
22-37: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ORDERS; CONVEYANCE EXEMPTED:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to the making or
delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the securities and
exchange commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of section 1083 of the
internal revenue code of 1954; but only if:
   A.   The order of the securities and exchange commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of section 79K of title 15 of the
United States Code, relating to the public utility holding company act of 1935;
   B.   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
   C.   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order. (Ord. 894 § 7, 12-
5-1967)
22-38: PARTNERSHIP REALTY:
   A.   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this article by reason of any transfer of an interest in a
partnership or otherwise, if:
      1.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of section 708 of the internal revenue code of
1954; and
      2.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   B.   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of
section 708 of the internal revenue code of 1954, for purposes of this article,
such partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby
there was conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien
or encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the
time of such termination.
   C.   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this article by
reason of a termination described in subsection B of this section, and any
transfer pursuant thereto, with respect to the realty held by such partnership
at the time of such termination. (Ord. 894 § 8, 12-5-1967)
22-39: ADMINISTRATION OF ARTICLE BY COUNTY RECORDER:
The county recorder shall administer this article in conformity with the
provisions of part 6.7 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and the
provisions of any county ordinance adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 894 § 9, 12-
5-1967)
ARTICLE V. UTILITY USERS TAX
SECTION:
22-42: Definitions
22-43: Telephone Users Tax
22-44: Electricity Users Tax
22-45: Gas Users Tax
22-46: Water Users Tax
22-47: Cable Television Tax
22-48: Exemptions From Article
22-49: Collection Of Tax
22-50: Reporting And Remitting
22-51: Penalty
22-52: Actions To Collect
22-53: Failure To Pay Tax; Administrative Remedy
22-54: Assessment; Administrative Remedy
22-55: Records
22-56: Refunds
22-57: Date Taxes Imposed
22-42: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this article.
   CITY: The city of Porterville.
   MONTH: A calendar month.
   PERSON: Any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate,
joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club Massachusetts
business or common law trust, society, individual, or municipal corporation.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER: A person required to collect and remit a tax imposed by
this article.
   SERVICE USER: A person required to pay a tax imposed by this article.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The administrative services director or designee of the
city of Porterville.
   TELEPHONE CORPORATION, ELECTRICAL CORPORATION, GAS CORPORATION, WATER
CORPORATION, AND CABLE TELEVISION CORPORATION: Shall have the same meanings as
defined in sections 234, 218, 222, 241, and 215.5, respectively, of the Public
Utilities Code of the state of California, as said sections existed on January
1, 1969. "Electrical corporation", and "water corporation", shall be construed
to include any municipality or franchised agency engaged in the selling or
supplying of electrical power or water to a service user. (Ord. 980 § 1, 7-1-
1970)
22-43: TELEPHONE USERS TAX:
   A.   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city, other than
a telephone corporation, using intrastate telephone communication services in
the city. The tax imposed by this article shall be at the rate as fixed by
resolution of the city council and shall be paid by the person paying for such
services.
   B.   As used in this section, the term "charges" shall not include charges
for services paid for by inserting coins in coin operated telephones except
that where such coin operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed
amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other
periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of tax
due; nor shall the term "telephone communication services" include land mobile
services or maritime mobile services as defined in section 2.1 of title 47 of
the code of federal regulations, as such section existed on January 1, 1969.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the tax
imposed under this section shall not be imposed upon any person for using
intrastate telephone communication services to the extent that the amounts paid
for such services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed by section
4251 of title 26 of the United States Code, as such section existed on January
1, 1969, without regard to subsection B of this section.
   D.   The maximum annual telephone users tax for the twelve (12) month period
beginning July 1, and ending June 30 of the next succeeding year for
manufacturers shall be as follows:
 
Number Of Employees    Amount
0 to 600 employees           $ 500.00
601 to 1,000 employees       1,000.00
Over 1,000 employees         1,500.00
 
(Ord. 980 § 2, 7-1-1970; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973; Ord. 1614 § 1, 9-17-2002)
22-44: ELECTRICITY USERS TAX:
   A.   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using
electrical energy. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate as
fixed by resolution of the city council, and shall be paid by the person paying
for such energy. "Charges", as used in this section, shall include charges made
for: 1) metered energy; and 2) minimum charges for service, including customer
charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges, and annual and
monthly charges.
   B.   As used in this section, the term "using electrical energy" shall not
be construed to mean the storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned
or possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery or device apart
from the premises upon which the energy was received; provided, however, that
the term shall include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it
in the charging of batteries. The term shall not include electricity used in
water pumping by water corporations; nor shall the term include the mere
receiving of such energy by an electrical corporation at a point within the
city for resale.
   C.   The maximum annual electricity users tax for the twelve (12) month
period beginning July 1, and ending June 30 of the next succeeding year for
manufacturers shall be as follows:
 
Number Of Employees    Amount
0 to 600 employees           $ 500.00
601 to 1,000 employees       1,000.00
Over 1,000 employees         1,500.00
 
(Ord. 980 § 3, 7-1-1970; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
22-45: GAS USERS TAX:
   A.   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using gas
which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate as fixed by resolution of the city council and shall be
paid by the person paying for such gas.
   B.   There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
section is computed: 1) charges made for gas which is to be resold and
delivered through mains or pipes; 2) charges made for gas to be used in the
generation of electrical energy by an electrical corporation; 3) charges made
for gas used in water pumping by water corporations; and 4) charges made by a
gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the conduct of the business of
gas public utilities.
   C.   The maximum annual gas users tax for the twelve (12) month period
beginning July 1, and ending June 30 of the next succeeding year for
manufacturers shall be as follows:
 
Number Of Employees    Amount
0 to 600 employees           $ 500.00
601 to 1,000 employees       1,000.00
Over 1,000 employees         1,500.00
 
(Ord. 980 § 4, 7-1-1970; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
22-46: WATER USERS TAX:
   A.   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using water
which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate as fixed by resolution of the city council, and shall be
paid by the person paying for such water.
   B.   There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
section is computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered
through mains or pipes; and charges made by a municipal water department,
public utility or a county or municipal water district for water used and
consumed by such department, utility or district in the conduct of the business
of such department, utility or district.
   C.   The maximum annual water users tax for the twelve (12) month period
beginning July 1, and ending June 30, of the next succeeding year for
manufacturers shall be as follows:
 
Number Of Employees    Amount
0 to 600 employees           $ 500.00
601 to 1,000 employees       1,000.00
Over 1,000 employees         1,500.00
 
(Ord. 980 § 5, 7-1-1970; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
22-47: CABLE TELEVISION TAX:
There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using cable
television service. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate as
fixed by resolution of the city council and shall be paid by the person paying
for such service. (Ord. 980 § 6, 7-1-1970; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
22-48: EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE:
Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person if
imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the
constitution of the United States or the constitution of the state of
California. (Ord. 980 § 7, 7-1-1970)
22-49: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Every person receiving payment of charges from a service user shall
collect the amount of tax imposed by this article from the service user.
   B.   The tax shall be collected at the same time as and along with the
collection of charges made in accordance with the regular billing practice of
the service supplier.
   C.   The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person which
starts on or after the effective date hereof. Where a person receives more than
one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing period. (Ord. 980 § 8, 7-1-
1970)
22-50: REPORTING AND REMITTING:
Each service supplier shall, on or before the twentieth of each month, make a
return to the tax administrator, on forms provided by him, stating the amount
of taxes billed by the service supplier during the preceding month. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to
the tax administrator. The tax administrator is authorized to require such
further information as he deems necessary to properly determine if the tax here
imposed is being levied and collected in accordance with this article. Returns
and remittances are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason.
(Ord. 980 § 9, 7-1-1970)
22-51: PENALTY:
   A.   Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the tax
administrator on or before the due dates provided in this article are
delinquent.
   B.   Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any
deficiency determination, shall attach and be paid by the person required to
collect and remit at the rate of ten percent (10%) of the total tax collected
or imposed herein.
   C.   The tax administrator shall have power to impose additional penalties
upon persons required to collect and remit taxes under the provisions of this
article for fraud or negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of ten
percent (10%) of the amount of the tax collected or as recomputed by the tax
administrator.
   D.   Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this section shall become
a part of the tax required to be remitted. (Ord. 980 § 10, 7-1-1970)
22-52: ACTIONS TO COLLECT:
Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
article shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such
tax collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the tax
administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the city by the person required to
collect and remit. Any person owing money to the city under the provisions of
this article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for
the recovery of such amount. (Ord. 980 § 11, 7-1-1970)
22-53: FAILURE TO PAY TAX; ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY:
Whenever the tax administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by him from the amounts remitted to a
service supplier, or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the
tax for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, or whenever the tax
administrator deems it is the obligation to collect taxes due under this
article from certain named service users for specified billing periods, the tax
administrator shall notify the service user that he has assumed responsibility
to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such
taxes. The notice shall be served on the service user by handing it to him
personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing
was made by the service supplier; or should the service user have changed his
address, to his last known address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to
the tax administrator within fifteen (15) days from the date of the service of
the notice upon him, which shall be the date of mailing if service is not
accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the amount of
the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than five
dollars ($5.00). The penalty shall become part of the tax herein required to be
paid. (Ord. 980 § 12, 7-1-1970)
22-54: ASSESSMENT; ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY:
   A.   The tax administrator may make an assessment for taxes not paid or
remitted by a person required to pay or remit. A notice of the assessment which
shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes and penalties imposed and the
time and place when such assessment shall be submitted to the city council for
confirmation or modification. The tax administrator shall mail a copy of such
notice to the person selling the service and to the service user at least ten
(10) days prior to the date of the hearing and shall post such notice for at
least five (5) continuous days prior to the date of the hearing on the chamber
door of the city council. Any interested party having any objections may appear
and be heard at the hearing, provided his objection is filed in writing with
the tax administrator prior to the time set for the hearing.
   B.   At the time fixed for considering said assessment, the city council
shall hear the same together with any objection filed as aforesaid and
thereupon may confirm or modify said assessment by motion. (Ord. 980 § 13, 7-1-
1970)
22-55: RECORDS:
It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the city
any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period of three (3)
years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as
he may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the tax
administrator, which records the tax administrator shall have the right to
inspect at any reasonable time. (Ord. 980 § 14, 7-1-1970)
22-56: REFUNDS:
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax
administrator under this article it may be refunded as provided in this
section.
   B.   A person required to collect and remit taxes imposed under this article
may claim a refund or take a credit against taxes collected and remitted the
amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or
received when it is established in a manner prescribed by the tax administrator
that the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax;
provided, however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless
the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded to the service user
or credited to charges subsequently payable by the service user to the person
required to collect and remit.
   C.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto.
   D.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service
supplier, pursuant to an order of the California public utilities commission or
a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges
for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this article on the
amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded to service users, and
the service supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded
taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly returns. In
the event this article is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be
borne by the city. (Ord. 980 § 15, 7-1-1970; Ord. 1343, 12-3-1985)
22-57: DATE TAXES IMPOSED:
The taxes imposed by this article shall become imposed as of July 1, 1970, or
at the beginning of the first regular billing period thereafter which would not
include service prior to July 1, 1970. (Ord. 980 § 17, 7-1-1970)
ARTICLE VI. CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX
SECTION:
22-60: Cannabis Business Tax
22-61: Definitions
22-62: Tax Authorization And Operative Date
22-63: Tax Imposed
22-64: Registration Of Cannabis Business
22-65: Reporting And Remittance Of Tax
22-66: Payments And Communications; Timely Remittance
22-67: Payment; When Taxes Deemed Delinquent
22-68: Notice Not Required By City
22-69: Waivers Of Penalties
22-70: Refunds
22-71: Exemptions From The Tax
22-72: Administration Of The Tax
22-73: Enforcement
22-74: Apportionment
22-75: Construction
22-76: Audit And Examination Of Records And Equipment
22-77: Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes, Fees, Or Charges
22-78: Change Of Ownership/Successor’s And Assignee’s Responsibility
22-79: Payment Of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business
22-80: Deficiency Determinations
22-81: Failure To Report; Nonpayment
22-82: Tax Assessment; Notice Requirements
22-83: Tax Assessment; Hearing, Application, And Determination
22-84: Appeal Procedure
22-85: Conviction For Chapter Violation; Taxes Not Waived
22-86: Violation Deemed Misdemeanor
22-87: Suspension Of Collection
22-88: Severability
22-89: Remedies Cumulative
22-90: Amendment Or Repeal
22-91: Penalties
22-60: CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX:
The cannabis business tax is an excise tax on the privilege of engaging in
cannabis business activity in the City; it is not a sales or use tax. All of
the proceeds from the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be placed in the City’s
general fund and used for general governmental purposes. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-61: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT:    A person who is required to file an application for a permit under this section.
              The owner(s) of the Cannabis Business. For publicly traded companies, owner means the
BUSINESS      chief executive officer or any person or entity with an aggregate ownership interest
OWNER:        of 5% or more. For all other businesses other than publicly traded companies, an owner
              is an individual that has an aggregate ownership of interest other than a lien or
              encumbrance, of 20% or more in the commercial cannabis business.
              All parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis
              ruderalis, or any other strain or varietal of the genus Cannabis that may exist or
              hereafter be discovered or developed that has psychoactive or medicinal properties,
CANNABIS:     whether growing or not, including the seeds thereof. “Cannabis” also means cannabis or
              marijuana as defined by Section 11018 of the Health and Safety Code as enacted by
              Chapter 1407 of the Statutes of 1972, and amended by the California Control, Regulate
              and .Tax Adult Use of Cannabis Initiative, and as defined by other applicable State
              law.
              Any business activity in the City relating to cannabis, including but not limited to
CANNABIS      cultivation (including nurseries), transportation, distribution, manufacture,
BUSINESS or   compounding, conversion, processing, preparation, testing, storage, packaging,
CANNABIS      delivery and sales (wholesale and/or retail sales) of cannabis or cannabis products,
INDUSTRY:     whether or not carried on for gain or profit. A cannabis business does not include any
              business whose only relationship to cannabis or cannabis products is the production or
              sale of cannabis accessories.
              The total aggregate area(s) of cannabis cultivation by a cannabis business as measured
              around the outermost perimeter of each separate and discrete area of cannabis
CANNABIS      cultivation at the dripline of the canopy expected at maturity and includes, but is
CULTIVATION   not limited to, the space between plants within the cultivation area, the exterior
AREA:         dimensions of garden beds, garden plots, hoop houses, green houses, and each room or
              area where cannabis plants are grown, excluding non-production areas, as determined by
              the Community Development Director or his or her designee.
CANNABIS      The tax due pursuant to this Chapter for engaging in cannabis business in the City.
BUSINESS TAX:
              A Person who produces Cannabis clones, immature plants, and/or seeds for wholesale
CANNABIS      distribution, used specifically for the planting, propagation, and Cultivation of
NURSERY:      Cannabis. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “nursery” includes
              “nursery” as defined in California Business and Professions Code Section 19300.5 and
              any successor statute, as may be adopted or amended from time to time.
CANNABIS      Any product containing cannabis, including, but not limited to, flowers, buds, oils,
PRODUCT:      tinctures, concentrates, extractions, edibles and those products described in Section
              11018.1 of the Health and Safety Code.
              All areas occupied by any portion of a cannabis plant, inclusive of all vertical
              planes, whether the areas are contiguous or noncontiguous. The plant canopy need not
CANOPY:       be contained to a single parcel of land in determining the total square footage that
              will be subject to tax under this Chapter. If mature plants are being cultivated using
              a shelving system, the surface area of each level shall be included in the total
              canopy calculation.
CITY:         The City of Porterville, either the entity or its territorial limits, as the context
              requires.
CITY COUNCIL  The City Council of the City of Porterville.
or COUNCIL:
CITY PERMIT:  Any permit issued by the City to Person to authorize that Person to operate or engage
              in a Commercial Cannabis Business.
COLLECTOR:    The City’s Chief Financial Officer or his or her designee.
              Cultivation conducted by, for, or as part of a cannabis business. Commercial cannabis
COMMERCIAL    cultivation does not include personal medical cannabis cultivation, or cultivation for
CANNABIS      personal recreational use as authorized under the “Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use
CULTIVATION:  of Marijuana Act” approved by the State’s voters on November 8, 2016, for which the
              individual receives no compensation whatsoever.
COMMERCIAL
CANNABIS      Any commercial marijuana activity allowed under State Law and the implementing
BUSINESS or   regulations, as State Law and the implementing regulations may be amended from time to
CANNABIS      time, and all uses permitted under any subsequently enacted State law pertaining to
BUSINESS or   the same or similar uses for recreational cannabis.
CANNABIS
OPERATION:
CANNABIS      The processes associated with the processing, extraction, manufacturing, testing,
PRODUCTION:   distribution and transportation of medical and non-medical cannabis products.
COMMINGLING:  The physical aggregation of harvest batches or nonmanufactured cannabis products by a
              licensee.
              Any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or
              trimming of cannabis. “Cultivation” also includes nurseries. In addition, and without
CULTIVATION:  limiting the foregoing, “cultivation” includes “cultivation” as defined in California
              Business and Professions Code section 19300.5 and any successor statute, as may be
              adopted and amended from time to time.
              The commercial transfer of marijuana cannabis or marijuana cannabis products to a
              customer. “Delivery” also includes the use by a retailer of any technology platform
DELIVERY:     owned and controlled by the retailer, or independently licensed under this division
              that enables customers to arrange for or facilitate the commercial transfer by a
              licensed retailer of marijuana or marijuana products.
DELIVERY      An individual employed by a licensed dispensary who delivers medical cannabis goods
EMPLOYEE:     from the licensed dispensary premises to a medical cannabis patient or primary
              caregiver at a physical address.
              A facility where cannabis or cannabis products, are offered, either individually or in
              combination, for retail sale, including an establishment that engages in delivery of
DISPENSARY:   cannabis or cannabis products as part of a retail sale. In addition, and without
              limiting the foregoing, “dispensary” includes “dispensary” as defined in California
              Business and Professions Code section 19300.5 and any successor statute, as may be
              adopted or amended from time to time.
              A person engaged in procuring cannabis from a cultivator, and/or procuring cannabis
              products from a manufacturer, for sale to a licensed commercial cannabis business. In
DISTRIBUTOR:  addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “distributor” includes “distributor” as
              defined in California Business and Professions Code section 19300.5 and any successor
              statute, as may be adopted or amended from time to time.
              The procurement, sale, and transport of cannabis or cannabis products between
DISTRIBUTION: licensees, or the involvement in the procurement, sale, and/or transport of cannabis
              and cannabis products between two or more cannabis businesses.
              Each and every person engaged in the operation or conduct of any cannabis business,
EMPLOYEE:     whether as owner, member of the owner’s family, partner, associate, agent, manager or
              solicitor, and each and every other person employed or working in such cannabis
              business for a wage, salary, commission, barter or any other form of compensation.
              The total amount or compensation received or receivable from all sales; the total
              amount or compensation actually received or receivable for the performance of any act
              or service, or whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit
              allowed, whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in connection with
              the sale of materials, goods, wares or merchandise; discounts, rents, royalties, fees,
              commissions, dividends and gains realized from trading in stocks or bonds, however
              designated. Included in “Gross Receipts” shall be all receipts, cash, credits and
              property of any kind or nature, without any deduction there from an account of the
              cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs,
              interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever, except that the
              following shall be excluded therefrom:
              1.   Cash discounts where allowed and taken on sales;
              2.   Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and which
              property may later be sold, at which time the sales price shall be included as gross
              receipts;
              3.   Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and
              collected from the consumer or purchaser;
              4.   Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the seller
              as refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of refundable
              deposits previously included in gross receipts;
              5.   Receipts from investments where the holder of the investment received only
              interest and/or dividends, royalties, annuities and gains from the sale or exchange of
              stock or securities solely for a Person’s own account, not derived in the ordinary
              course of a business;
              6.   Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus trade
              fixtures, machinery or other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course of
              the taxpayer’s business;
GROSS         7.   Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or units of the
RECEIPTS:     sale business;
              8.   Wherever there are included within the gross receipts amounts which reflect sales
              for which credit is extended and such amount proved uncollectible in a subsequent
              year, those amounts may be excluded from the gross receipts in the year they prove to
              be uncollectible; provided, however, if the whole or portion of such amounts excluded
              as uncollectible are subsequently collected they shall be included in the amount of
              gross receipts for the period when they are recovered;
              9.   Transactions between a partnership and its partners;
              10.   Receipts from services or sales in transactions between affiliated corporations.
              An affiliated corporation is a corporation:
                 a.   The voting and non-voting stock of which is owned at least eighty percent
              (80%) of such other corporation with which such transaction is had; or
                 b.   Which owns at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting and non-voting stock of
              such other corporation; or
                 c.   At least eighty percent (80%) of the voting and nonvoting stock of which is
              owned by a common parent corporation which also has such ownership of the corporation
              with which such transaction is had.
              11.   Transactions between a limited liability company and its member(s), provided the
              limited liability company has elected to file as a Subchapter K entity under the
              Internal Revenue Code and that such transaction(s) shall be treated the same as
              between a partnership and its partner(s) as specified in Subsection 9 above;
              12.   Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited and
              taken into income of the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one dollar
              ($1.00);
              13.   Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or trustee
              and to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected. These agents
              or trustees must provide the Finance Department with the name and addresses of the
              others and amounts paid to them. This exclusion shall not apply to any fees,
              percentages, or other payments retained by the agent or trustees.
INDOOR        The cultivation of cannabis within a structure using artificial light, at a rate
CULTIVATION:  greater than 25 watts per square foot.
              A person who conducts the production, preparation, propagation, or compounding of
              cannabis or cannabis products either directly or indirectly or by extraction methods,
              or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and
MANUFACTURER: chemical synthesis, or that packages or repackages cannabis or cannabis products or
              labels or re-labels its container. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing,
              “manufacturer” includes “manufacturer” as defined in California Business and
              Professions Code section 19300.5 and any successor statute, as may be adopted or
              amended from time to time.
              The cultivation of cannabis using light deprivation and/or artificial lighting below a
MIXED-LIGHT   rate of 25 watts per square foot, and/or the Cultivation of cannabis using any
CULTIVATION:  combination of natural and supplemental artificially lighting. Greenhouses, hoop
              houses, hot houses and similar structures or light deprivation systems are included in
              this category.
              A person who produces cannabis clones, immature plants, and/or seeds for wholesale
              distribution, used specifically for the planting, propagation, and cultivation of
NURSERY:      cannabis. In addition, and without limiting the foregoing, “nursery” includes
              “nursery” as defined in California Business and Professions Code section 19300.5 and
              any successor statute, as may be adopted or amended from time to time.
OPERATOR:     The Business Owner and any other person designated by the Business Owner as
              responsible for the day to day Cannabis business operation.
              An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, limited
PERSON:       liability company, estate, trust, business trust, syndicate tribe or any other group
              or combination acting as a unite and includes the plural as well as the singular
              member.
PERSONAL      Cultivation, by either a qualified patient who cultivates cannabis exclusively for his
MEDICAL       or her personal medical use or by a caregiver who cultivates cannabis exclusively for
CANNABIS      medical use by qualified patients and who is exempt from State licensing requirements
CULTIVATION:  under the State Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act.
              The designated structure or structures and land specified in the application that is
PREMISES:     owned, leased, or otherwise held under the control of the applicant or licensee where
              the commercial cannabis activity will be or is conducted.
RESPONSIBLE   The Business Owner, Operator, manager(s), and any employee having significant control
PARTY:        over the cannabis businesses operations.
SALE:         Includes any sale, exchange, or barter.
              The maximum amount of Cannabis Cultivation Area for Commercial Cannabis Cultivation
SQUARE FOOT   authorized by a City Permit issued to a person engaging in a Commercial Cannabis
or SQUARE     Business, or by a state license in the absence of a City permit or license, not
FOOTAGE:      deducting for unutilized square footage, and shall be the basis for the tax base for
              Cultivation.
STATE:        The State of California.
STATE LAW:    All regulations and laws pertaining to Cannabis Business in the State of California.
STATE         A State license issued pursuant to California Business & Professions Code Sections
LICENSE:      19300, et seq. or other applicable State law.
              A laboratory, facility, or entity in the State, that offers or performs tests of
              cannabis or cannabis products and that is both of the following: 1) Accredited by an
TESTING:      accrediting body that is independent from all other persons involved in commercial
              marijuana cannabis activity in the State. 2) Registered with Licensed by the State
              Department of Public Health.
              The transfer of cannabis or cannabis products from the permitted business location of
TRANSPORT:    one licensee to the permitted business location of another licensee, for the purposes
              of conducting commercial cannabis activity authorized pursuant to this chapter.
TRANSPORTER:  A person issued all required state and City permits to transport cannabis or cannabis
              products between permitted facilities. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
 
22-62: TAX AUTHORIZATION AND OPERATIVE DATE:
Beginning January 1, 2021, a cannabis business tax is hereby imposed on every
person who is engaged in cannabis business in the City as prescribed herein. It
is unlawful for any person to transact or carry on any cannabis business in the
City without paying, in accordance with this Chapter, the cannabis industry tax
imposed by this section. The intent of this Article is to levy a tax on all
cannabis businesses that operate in the City, regardless of whether such
business would have been legal at the time the ordinance codified in this
chapter was adopted. Nothing in this chapter or article shall be interpreted to
authorize or permit any business activity that would not otherwise be legal or
permissible under laws applicable to the activity at the time the activity is
undertaken, including but not limited to the City’s municipal code regulations.
Nothing in this chapter or article shall be construed as to alter the City’s
regulatory requirements or conditions under which a cannabis business may
operate in accordance with Article 7 of
Chapter 15 and/or Article 11 of
Chapter 18 of the Porterville Municipal Code, or the land use requirements and
conditions set forth in the Porterville Development Code.(Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-63: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Tax on Commercial Cannabis Businesses:
      1.   Every Person who is engaged in a Commercial Cannabis Business in the
City shall pay an annual Commercial Cannabis Business tax at a rate established
by resolution of the City Council which rate shall not exceed $25 per square
foot (with a permitted annual adjustment by the applicable Consumer Price
Index) of Commercial Cannabis Business area or ten percent (10%) of annual
gross receipts per fiscal year. The exact amount of the tax and the methodology
of calculation shall be set by the City Council by resolution but shall not
exceed the maximums approved by the voters of $25 per square foot (with a
permitted annual adjustment by the Consumer Price Index), or 10% of annual
gross receipts. The City Council may lower and raise the tax rate without voter
approval, subject to the maximum rates approved by the voters. Tax rates for
various licenses may vary in rate and methodology between license types, but
shall be consistent for all Persons who hold a particular type of license.
      2.   The taxable square footage calculation shall be determined by
including all portions of the premises where the Commercial Cannabis Business
operates deducting therefrom driveways, sidewalks, landscaping, vacant unused
space, areas used exclusively for office space, employee break rooms,
restrooms, and storage space unrelated to the Commercial Cannabis Businesses.
      3.   If more than one cannabis business operates on the premises, each
Person shall be responsible for paying the tax. This section shall not be
construed to authorize the operation of more than one cannabis business on the
premises, if otherwise prohibited by City regulation(s).
      4.   Persons subject to the tax imposed by this Section shall also
register and pay all fees required by the City Council.
   B.   No further voter approval shall be required for the adoption or
increase of a tax under the authority granted by this Section of this Chapter,
it being the intent of the People of the City of Porterville to authorize such
a tax up to and including the maximum rates set forth above whenever
implemented by the City Council hereafter. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-64: REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS:
All persons engaging in a cannabis business, whether an existing, newly
established or acquired business, shall, in addition to any other requirements
prescribed by this Code, register with the Collector by the later of 30 days
after commencing operation or January 1, 2021, and shall annually renew such
registration as required by the Collector. Each Person shall be required to
submit any information as deemed necessary by the Collector. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-
2020)
22-65: REPORTING AND REMITTANCE OF TAX:
The cannabis business tax imposed by this Chapter shall be due and payable as
follows:
   A.   Each person subject to tax under this chapter, except a cannabis tax
based on a square footage, shall, on or before the last day of the month
following the close of each calendar quarter, prepare and submit a tax return
and remit to the Collector the tax due for that quarter. At the time the return
is filed, the full amount of the tax due for the prior quarter shall be
remitted to the Collector. At any time, a business may apply in writing to the
Collector to have these tax returns and payments made less frequently or on a
different schedule. Any determination resulting from this application will be
at the sole discretion of the Collector and shall be provided in writing.
   B.   Each person subject to a cannabis tax based upon square footage shall,
on or before the last day of the month following the close of each calendar
quarter, prepare and submit a tax return and remit to the Collector the tax due
for that quarter. The tax shall be calculated in accordance with rules and
regulations established by the Collector pursuant to 22-72. The tax return may
include a request for adjustment of the tax due to crop loss or periods without
cultivation, along with evidence substantiating the crop loss or fallow
periods. If the cultivation begins significantly after January 1 or terminates
significantly before December 31 of the calendar year, a request to prorate the
tax may be submitted with clear and convincing evidence supporting the timing
of the cultivation. The decision to prorate or adjust the tax will be made at
the sole discretion of the Collector. At the time the return is filed, the full
amount of the tax due for the prior quarter shall be remitted to the Collector.
At any time, a business may apply in writing to the Collector to have these tax
returns and payments made less frequently or on a different schedule. Any
determination resulting from this application will be at the sole discretion of
the Collector and shall be provided in writing.
   C.   All tax returns shall be completed on forms prescribed by the
Collector.
   D.   Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes owed to the City
under this Chapter are immediately due and payable to the City of Porterville
upon cessation of business for any reason.
   E.    The Collector may, as part of administering the tax and in his or her
discretion, modify the form of payment and take such other administrative
actions as needed to facilitate the collection of the tax. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-
2020)
22-66: PAYMENTS AND COMMUNICATIONS; TIMELY REMITTANCE:
Whenever any payment, return, report, request or other communication is due
under this Chapter, it must be received by the Collector on or before the due
date. A carrier postmark will not be accepted as timely remittance. If the due
date falls on Saturday, Sunday or a City holiday, the due date shall be the
next regular business day on which the City is open to the public. (Ord. 1875,
7-21-2020)
22-67: PAYMENT; WHEN TAXES DEEMED DELINQUENT:
Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this Chapter,
the taxes required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed
delinquent if not received by the City of Porterville on or before the due date
as specified in Section
22-65. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-68: NOTICE NOT REQUIRED BY CITY:
The City of Porterville is not required to send a delinquency or other notice
or bill to any person subject to this Chapter. Failure to send such notice or
bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or penalty or interest due under
this Chapter. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-69: WAIVERS OF PENALTIES:
The Collector may waive the penalties imposed upon any person if:
   A.   The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Collector that failure
to pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the person and
occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the absence of
willful neglect, and the person paid the delinquent cannabis industry tax and
accrued interest owed the City before applying to the Collector for a waiver.
   B.   The waiver provisions specified in this subsection shall be granted
only once during any twenty-four (24) month period. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-70: REFUNDS:
   A.    Whenever the amount of any Commercial Cannabis Business Tax, penalty
or interest has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously
collected or received by the City under this Chapter, it may be refunded to the
claimant who paid the tax provided that a written claim for refund is filed
with the Collector within one (1) year of the date the tax was originally due
and payable. Prior to seeking judicial relief with respect to a dispute
regarding the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest collected or received by
the city under this article, an aggrieved taxpayer, fee payer, or any other
person must comply with the provisions of Section
1-19 of this code.
   B.   The Collector, his or her deputies, or any other City officer charged
with the administration of this Chapter shall have the right to examine and
audit all the books and business records of the claimant in order to determine
the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund
shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such examination of
claimant’s books and business records after request by the Collector to do so.
The Collector may collect a fee adopted by the City Council to pay for the cost
of examination and audit should the books and records be provided in a form
insufficient to allow the Collector to make a determination on the claim for
refund.
   C.    In the event that the Commercial Cannabis Business Tax was erroneously
paid and the error is attributable to the City, the City shall refund the
amount of tax erroneously paid up to one (1) year from when the error was
identified. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-71: EXEMPTIONS FROM THE TAX:
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to Personal Cannabis
Cultivation.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to Personal use of
Cannabis that is specifically exempted from state licensing requirements, that
meets the definition of Personal use or equivalent terminology under state law,
and for which the individual receives no compensation whatsoever related to
that Personal use. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-72: ADMINISTRATION OF THE TAX:
   A.    It shall be the duty of the Collector to collect the taxes, penalties
and/or fees, and perform the duties required by this Chapter.
   B.    For purposes of administration and enforcement of this Chapter
generally, the Collector may from time to time promulgate such administrative
rules and procedures consistent with the purpose, intent, and express terms of
this Chapter as he or she deems necessary to implement or clarify such
provisions or aid in enforcement.
   C.    The Collector may take such administrative actions as needed to
administer the tax, including but not limited to:
      1.   Provide to all Commercial Cannabis Business taxpayers forms for the
reporting of the tax;
      2.   Increase tax rates in accordance with this Chapter;
      3.   Provide information to any taxpayer concerning the provisions of
this Chapter;
      4.   Receive and record all taxes remitted to the City as provided in
this Chapter;
      5.   Maintain records of taxpayer reports and taxes collected pursuant to
this Chapter;
      6.   Assess penalties and interest to taxpayers pursuant to this Chapter;
      7.   Determine amounts owed and enforce collection pursuant to this
Chapter; and
      8.   Adopt rules and regulations no inconsistent with the provisions of
this Article as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the implementation and
enforcement of the provisions of this Article. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-73: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any taxes, penalties and/or fees required to be paid under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed to the City. Any Person
owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable in
an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such debt. The
provisions of this Section shall not be deemed a limitation upon the right of
the City to bring any other action including criminal, civil and equitable
actions, based upon the failure to pay the tax, penalties and/or fees imposed
by this Chapter or the failure to comply with any provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   In addition to any other remedies available under federal, state, or
local law, if any amount required to be paid to the County under this Chapter
is not paid when due, the Collector may, within three (3) years after the
amount is due, record a certificate of lien specifying the amount of taxes,
fees and penalties due, and the name and address of the Person as it appears on
the records of the Collector. The lien shall also specify that the Collector
has complied with all provisions of this Chapter in the determination of the
amount required to be paid. From the time of the filing of the record, the
amount required to be paid, together with penalties thereon, constitutes a lien
upon all real property in the County owned by the Person, or subsequently
acquired by the Person before the lien expires. The lien has the force, effect
and priority of a judgment lien and shall continue for ten (10) years from the
filing of the certificate unless sooner released or otherwise discharged. A fee
may be adopted by the City Council and collected by the Collector to pay for
the cost of recording and administering the lien.
   C.   At any time within three (3) years after any Person is delinquent in
the payment of any amount herein required to be paid or within three (3) years
after the last recording of a certificate of lien under Subsection B of this
Section, the Collector may issue a warrant for the enforcement of any liens and
for the collection of any amount required to be paid to the City under this
Chapter. The warrant shall be directed to the Chief of Police and shall have
the same effect as a writ of execution. The warrant shall be levied and sale
made pursuant to it in the same manner and with the same effect as a levy and
sale pursuant to a writ of execution. The Collector may pay or advance to the
Chief of Police, the same fees, commissions and expenses for service provided
by law for similar services pursuant to a writ of execution. The Collector may
approve the fees for publication in the newspaper.
   D.   At any time within three (3) years after recording a lien against any
Person, if the lien is not discharged and released in full, the Collector may
forthwith seize any asset or property, real or Personal (including but not
limited to, bank account), of the Person and sell at public auction the asset
or property, or a sufficient part of it to pay the amount due together with any
penalties and interest imposed for the delinquency and any cost incurred on
account of the seizure and sale. Assets or property of the Person subject to
seizure and sale subject to this Chapter shall not include any assets or
property which is exempt from execution under the provisions of the California
Code of Civil Procedure. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-74: APPORTIONMENT:
If a cannabis business subject to a cannabis industry tax is operating both
within and outside the City, it is the intent of the City to apply the cannabis
industry tax so that the 7 measure of the tax fairly reflects the proportion of
the taxed activity actually carried on within the City. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-75: CONSTRUCTION:
This tax is intended to be applied in a manner consistent with the~ United
States and California Constitutions, State and local law. None of the tax
provided for by this Chapter shall be applied in a manner that causes an undue
burden upon interstate commerce, a violation of the equal protection or due
process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State of
California or a violation of any other provision of the California
Constitution, State or local law. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-76: AUDIT AND EXAMINATION OF RECORDS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   The Collector shall have the power to audit and examine all books and
records of any person engaged in cannabis business in the City, including both
State and federal income tax returns, California sales tax returns, or other
evidence documenting the gross receipts of persons engaged in cannabis
business, and, where necessary, all equipment of any person engaged in cannabis
business in the City, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of cannabis
business tax, if any, required to be paid under this Chapter, and for the
purpose of verifying any statements or any item thereof when filed by any
person pursuant to this Chapter. If such person, after written demand by the
Collector, refuses to make available for audit, examination or verification
such books, records or equipment as the Collector requests, the Collector may,
after full consideration of all information within his or her knowledge
concerning the cannabis business and activities of the person so refusing, make
an assessment against the cannabis business of the taxes estimated to be due
under this Chapter.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and
payment to the City of any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve,
for a period of at least five (5) years, all records as may be necessary to
determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the
collection of and payment to the City, which records the Collector shall have
the right to inspect at all reasonable times. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-77: OTHER LICENSES, PERMITS, TAXES, FEES, OR CHARGES:
Except as expressly provided in this Chapter, nothing contained in this Chapter
shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect
any requirements for any permit or license required by, under or by virtue of
any provision of any other title or Chapter of this Code or any other ordinance
or resolution of the City, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of,
replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed or
required by, under or by virtue of any other title or Chapter of this Code or
any other ordinance or resolution of the City. Any references made or contained
in any other title or Chapter of this Code to any permits, licenses, taxes,
fees, or charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to refer
to the permits, licenses, taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees,
provided for in other titles or Chapters of the Porterville City Code unless
otherwise expressly provided. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-78: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP/SUCCESSOR’S AND ASSIGNEE’S RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   If any Person, while liable for any amount under this Chapter, sells,
assigns or otherwise transfers the Commercial Cannabis Business, whether
voluntarily or involuntarily, the Person’s successor, assignee or other
transferee, or other Person or entity obtaining ownership or control of the
business (“Transferee”), shall satisfy any tax liability owed to the City
associated with the business when due hereunder. Failure to do so for the
benefit of the City will result in being personally liable to the City for the
full amount of the unpaid tax liability, interest and penalties. The Transferee
shall notify the Collector of the date of transfer at least 30 days before the
transfer date; or if the agreement to sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of
the business was made less than 30 days before the date of transfer, notice
shall be provided immediately upon the existence of the agreement. All
Transferees are required to meet each and every condition outlined in this
chapter and have prior written approval of the City prior to the transfer.
   B.   The Transferee shall be deemed to have complied with the requirement of
this section to satisfy the unpaid tax liability if the Transferee complied
with the requirements of California Revenue and Taxation Code Section § 7283.5
by withholding from the purchase price, for the benefit of the City, an amount
sufficient to cover the tax liability, or by otherwise paying the tax liability
and obtaining from the Collector a “Tax Clearance Certificate” showing that all
outstanding tax liability has been paid and stating that no amount is due
through the date of transfer.
   C.   The Collector, within 90 days of receiving a written request from the
Transferee, may issue a “Tax Clearance Certificate” stating either the amount
of tax liability due and owing for the business, or stating that there is no
tax liability due and owing for the business through a stated date. The
Collector may also request financial records from the current or former owner
or operator of a Commercial Cannabis Business to audit the tax that may be due
and owing. The Collector shall issue a “Tax Clearance Certificate” within 30
days of completing the audit, state the amount of the tax liability owed, if
any, unless the Collector determines that the records provided in connection
with the audit are insufficient to determine whether taxes are due and owed or
in what amount. If the Collector determines that the records are insufficient,
the Collector may rely on the facts and information available to estimate any
tax liability. The Collector may issue a “Tax Clearance Certificate” stating
the amount of the tax liability, if any, based on such facts and information
available. Unless an appeal is filed in accordance with Section
22-84, the “Tax Clearance Certificate” shall serve as conclusive evidence of
the tax liability associated with the property through the date stated on the
“Tax Clearance Certificate.” (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-79: PAYMENT OF TAX DOES NOT AUTHORIZE UNLAWFUL BUSINESS:
   A.   The payment of a tax required by this Chapter, and its acceptance by
the City, shall not entitle any person to engage in any cannabis business
unless the person has complied with all of the requirements of this Code and
all other applicable State or local laws.
   B.   No tax paid under this Chapter shall be construed as authorizing the
conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any business in
violation of any State or local laws. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-80: DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
If the Collector is not satisfied that any tax return or other statement filed
as required under this Chapter is correct, or that the amount of tax is
correctly computed, he or she may compute and determine the amount to be paid
and make a deficiency determination upon the facts contained in the tax return
or statement or any information in his or her possession or that may come into
his or her possession within three (3) years of the date the tax was originally
due and payable, or such later date as allowable by law. One or more deficiency
determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods may be made.
When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determination
may be made at any time within three (3) years thereafter, or such later date
as allowable by law, as to any liability arising from engaging in such business
whether or not a deficiency determination is issued prior to the date the tax
would otherwise be due. Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice
shall be given to the person concerned in the same manner as notices of
assessment are given in accordance with this Code. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-81: FAILURE TO REPORT-NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Under any of the following circumstances and at any time, the Collector
may make and give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person
under this Article:
      1.   If the person has not filed a complete return or statement required
under this Chapter;
      2.   If the person has not timely paid any tax, fee, interest and/or
penalties due under of this Chapter; or
      3.   If the person has not, after demand by the Collector, filed a
corrected return or statement, or furnished to the Collector adequate
substantiation of the information contained in a return or statement filed
previously.
   B.   The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any
tax, fee, interest and/or penalties known by the Collector to be due or
estimated by the Collector, after consideration of all information within the
Collector’s knowledge concerning the business and activities of the person
assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this Chapter. (Ord. 1875,
7-21-2020)
22-82: TAX ASSESSMENT - NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person liable for the tax
under this Chapter either by personal delivery, or by a deposit of the notice
in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at
the address of the location of the business or to such other address as he or
she shall register with the Collector for the purpose of receiving notices
provided under this Chapter; or, should the person have no address registered
with the Collector for such purpose, then to such person’s last known address.
For the purposes of this section, a service by mail is complete at the time of
deposit in the United States mail. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-83: TAX ASSESSMENT; HEARING, APPLICATION, AND DETERMINATION:
Within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service, the Person may apply in
writing to the Collector for a hearing on the assessment. If application for a
hearing before the City is not made within the time here prescribed, the tax
assessed by the Collector shall become final and conclusive. Within thirty (30)
business days of the receipt of any such application for hearing, the Collector
shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before him or her not later than
thirty-five (35) business days after the receipt of the application, unless a
later date is agreed to by the Collector and the Person requesting the hearing.
Notice of such hearing shall be given by the Collector to the Person requesting
such hearing not later than five (5) business days prior to such hearing. At
such hearing said applicant may appear and offer evidence why the assessment as
made by the Collector should not be confirmed and fixed as the tax due. After
such hearing, the Collector shall determine and reassess the proper tax to be
charged and shall give written notice to the Person in the manner prescribed in
Section
22-82 for giving notice of assessment. The amount determined to be due shall be
payable after thirty (30) calendar days of written notice unless it is appealed
pursuant to the Appeal Procedure set forth in this Article. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-
2020)
22-84: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any taxpayer aggrieved by any decision of the Collector with respect to the
amount of tax, fee, interest and penalties, if any, due under this Chapter may
appeal to the City Manager by filing a written appeal with the Clerk of the
Porterville City Council within fifteen (15) calendar days of the mailing of
the decision or determination. The Clerk shall schedule the appeal and give
fifteen (15) business days’ written notice to the appellant of the time and
place of hearing by serving the notice personally or by depositing in the
United States Post Office in the City, postage prepaid, addressed as shown on
the appeal papers or, if none, such other address as is known to the City or,
absent any address, by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
City. The City Manager or designee shall have authority to determine all
questions rose on such appeal. No such determination shall conflict with any
substantive provision of this Chapter. The finding of the City Manager shall be
final and conclusive as to the City, but subject to judicial review under
California Code of Procedure Section 1094.5 and shall be served upon appellant
in the manner prescribed by this Article for service of notice of tax
assessment hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and
payable upon service of the notice. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-85: CONVICTION FOR CHAPTER VIOLATION; TAXES NOT WAIVED:
The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay a required tax,
fee, penalty and/or interest under this Chapter shall not excuse or exempt such
person from any civil action for the amounts due under this Chapter. No civil
action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the provisions
of this Chapter or of any State law requiring the payment of all taxes. (Ord.
1875, 7-21-2020)
22-86: VIOLATION DEEMED MISDEMEANOR:
Any person who violates any provision of this Article or who other than by a
sworn statement, knowingly or intentionally misrepresents to any officer or
employee of the City any material fact herein required to be provided is guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in this Code. A person who on a sworn
statement states as true a material fact that he or she knows to be false is
guilty of perjury. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-87: SUSPENSION OF COLLECTION:
The City Council shall have authority to temporarily suspend collection of the
tax imposed by this chapter by resolution unanimously approved by all members
of the entire City Council. However, the authority to levy the tax imposed by
this chapter shall not expire or otherwise terminate, unless terminated by a
duly enacted Ordinance which is approved at a regular meeting of, and by
unanimous vote of all of the seats on, the City Council. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-88: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Chapter, or its application to any person or
circumstance, is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unlawful, unenforceable or otherwise void, that determination shall have no
effect on any other provision of this Chapter or the application of this
Chapter to any other person or circumstance and, to that end, the provisions
hereof are severable. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-89: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
All remedies prescribed under this Chapter shall be cumulative and the use of
one or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for
the purpose of enforcing the provisions hereof. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-90: AMENDMENT OR REPEAL:
As provided in California Elections Code Section 9217, this Chapter may be
repealed or amended by Ordinance of the Porterville City Council without a vote
of the People except that, as required by Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment that would increase
the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Chapter above the maximum rates
established by this Chapter. The people of the City of Porterville additionally
affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate
of a tax:
   A.   The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than
that set by this Chapter, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of
the tax;
   B.   An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or
any definition applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or
clarification ( even if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification)
is not inconsistent with the language of this Chapter; or
   C.   The collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter, even if the City
had, for some period of time, failed to collect the tax; or
   D.   The establishment of a class of Persons that is exempt or excepted from
the tax or the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception ( other than
the discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Chapter); or
   E.   The City Council’s adoption of an Ordinance, as authorized by this
Article, to raise the tax rate provided that the rate is not increased to a
rate higher than the maximums established herein. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-2020)
22-91: PENALTIES:
Any entity that fails to pay the taxes or fees required by this chapter within
fifteen (15) days after the due date shall pay in addition to the taxes a
penalty for nonpayment in the sum equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total amount due. Additional penalties will be assessed in the following
manner: ten percent (10%) shall be added on the first day of each calendar
month following the month of the imposition of the twenty-five percent (25%)
penalty if the tax remains unpaid - up to a maximum of one hundred percent
(100%) of the tax payable on the due date. Receipt of the tax payment by the
City shall govern the determination of whether the tax is delinquent. Postmarks
will not be accepted as adequate proof of a timely payment. (Ord. 1875, 7-21-
2020)
CHAPTER 23
TAXICABS AND OTHER VEHICLES FOR HIRE
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
SECTION:
23-1: Definitions
23-2: Compliance With Chapter Provisions
23-3: Identification Card
23-4: Persons Not Eligible To Operate/Drive Vehicle
23-5: Use Of Intoxicating Liquors Or Medications Prohibited During Hours Of
Duty
23-6: Parking
23-7: Reserved
23-8: Operator To Take Most Direct Route
23-9: Mechanical And Sanitary Condition Of Vehicle
23-9.1: Mechanical Inspection
23-9.2: Taximeters; Condition, Operation
23-9.3: Authority Of Police Department To Inspect Taxicabs
23-10: Rates
23-11: Soliciting Patronage
23-12: Exclusive Use Of Persons Engaging Vehicle
23-13: Automobile For Hire Not To Be Advertised As Taxi Or Taxicab
23-13.1: Out Of Service Taxicabs
23-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively set forth in this section:
   AUTOMOBILE FOR HIRE: Shall include every automobile or motor propelled
vehicle by means of which passengers are transported for hire upon any public
street in the city and not over a regular or defined route and irrespective of
whether the operations extend beyond the boundaries of the city or not,
excepting vehicle of highway contract carriers as defined in this section.
   HIGHWAY CONTRACT CARRIER: Every highway common carrier subject to the
regulations as such by the railroad commission under the public utilities act
of the state.
   TAXICAB: Shall include every automobile or motor propelled vehicle by means
of which passengers are transported for hire upon any public street in the city
and not over a regular or defined route and irrespective of whether the
operations extend beyond the boundary limits of the city or not and where a
charge for such transportation is measured by the distance traveled or by the
time required for such transportation, or both, or where any other goods are
received or charged for such transportation excepting vehicles of "highway
contract carriers" as defined in this section. (Ord. Code § 7710)
23-2: COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER PROVISIONS:
The rules and regulations in this chapter shall be observed by all persons
operating taxicabs or automobiles for hire, and it shall be unlawful to operate
such taxicab or automobile for hire in violation of any of the rules in this
chapter. (Ord. Code § 7730)
23-3: IDENTIFICATION CARD:
Any person operating a vehicle for hire or a taxicab shall have the taxi driver
identification card issued by the city and displayed in the cab while said
person is operating the cab. The identification card shall be affixed to the
visor in the driver's area or, if no such visor exists, attached to the top of
the cab in that area. (Ord. Code § 7731.1; Ord. 973 § B, 6-5-1970; Ord. 1215 §
B, 9-16-1980)
23-4: PERSONS NOT ELIGIBLE TO OPERATE/DRIVE VEHICLE:
No taxicab or automobile for hire shall be operated by any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years; or by any person who does not possess a valid
California driver's license; or by any person who does not possess a valid
taxicab driver permit; or by any person who is known to be habitually under the
influence of intoxicating drugs, liquors or combination of both. (Ord. Code §
7731.2; Ord. 1215 § B, 9-16-1980; Ord. 1666 § 1, 4-19-2005)
23-5: USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS OR MEDICATIONS PROHIBITED DURING HOURS OF
DUTY:
The driver of any automobile for hire or taxicab in the city of Porterville
shall refrain from drinking spirituous, malt, vinous or intoxicating liquors of
any kind or character, or the taking of any type of medication that manifests a
narcotic tranquilizing effect, during the period of time that such person is on
duty or prior to going on duty when the effects of such liquor or medication
would still be in effect on the driver, or when the subject driver is subject
to call in the operation of such automobile for hire or taxicab. (Ord. Code §
7731.3; Ord. 1215 § B, 9-16-1980)
23-6: PARKING:
No automobile for hire or taxicab shall remain standing upon any portion of any
public street within the city, except for loading and unloading passengers and
then not for a period of more than five (5) minutes, excepting at such stand as
may be designated and described in the permit. This section shall not apply to
any automobile for hire or taxicab while the same is engaged by or being paid
for by a passenger. During operating hours, taxicabs shall not be parked in
residential areas unless during the course of business. During nonoperating
hours the taxicabs shall be parked at the business location. Taxi drivers who
are "on call" may park the taxicab in front of their residence during the time
during which they are on call, provided no more than one taxicab is parked at
that location. (Ord. Code § 7732.1; Ord. 1666 § 2, 4-19-2005)
23-7: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1215 § A, 9-16-1980)
23-8: OPERATOR TO TAKE MOST DIRECT ROUTE:
The operator of any taxicab shall carry any passenger engaging the same safely
and expeditiously to his destination by the most direct and accessible route.
(Ord. Code § 7732.3)
23-9: MECHANICAL AND SANITARY CONDITION OF VEHICLE:
All automobiles for hire and taxicabs shall be kept in good mechanical
condition.
No automobile for hire or taxicab shall be operated unless the passenger
compartment be kept clean and in a sanitary condition. (Ord. Code § 7732.4)
23-9.1: MECHANICAL INSPECTION:
All vehicles permitted to be operated under a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be in safe operating condition and shall be inspected annually by
a qualified mechanic certified by the state of California department of
consumer affairs. The police department shall provide inspection forms, which
the mechanic shall complete and certify. The permit holder shall submit the
completed inspection form to the police department.
In the event said vehicle is found to be unsafe because of defective brakes,
lights, or other operating defect, said vehicle shall not be used as a taxicab
or vehicle for hire until such defect has been corrected. The cost of said
inspection shall be at the expense of the taxicab/automobile for hire company.
(Ord. 946 § C, 8-5-1969; Ord. 1666 § 3, 4-19-2005)
23-9.2: TAXIMETERS; CONDITION, OPERATION:
Every taxicab shall be equipped with a single tariff taximeter or other
measuring instrument. The use of any inaccurate taximeter or other measuring
instrument for the purpose of gauging or indicating distance traveled, or
waiting time for the purpose of fixing rates to be collected from the public,
is hereby prohibited. It shall be the duty of the owner using any taximeter or
other measuring instrument to keep said taximeter or other measuring instrument
in an accurate condition.
The permit holder shall provide proof that each vehicle's taximeter is
inspected a minimum of once a year, and immediately upon a change effecting the
meter rate, by the Tulare County department of weights and measures. The
taximeter shall be subject to inspection at any time by the Tulare County
department of weights and measures.
Every taximeter or other measuring instrument used for the purpose of gauging
or indicating distance traveled, or waiting time, or for the purpose of
computing fares to be collected from the public, shall be of a type approved
and subject to inspection at any time by the chief of police or his designee. A
police officer who receives a complaint from any person that the rate charged
is more than the legal rate shall report such fact to the chief of police, who
shall cause such taximeter or other measuring instrument to be inspected at
once.
The taximeter shall be so placed in a taxicab that the reading dial showing the
amount to be charged shall be well lighted and readily discernible by the
passenger riding in such taxicab, unless such taxicab is equipped and operated
with a receipt printing taximeter.
All drivers of taxicabs, upon payment of the fare, shall give a receipt when
requested for the fare paid.
All taxicab drivers shall cause the taximeter to be in the nonrecording
position at the termination of each service.
The taxicab driver, while carrying passengers or under employment, shall not
cause the taximeter to be in such position as to denote that such taxicab is
not employed, or in such position as to denote that he is employed at a rate or
fare different than that to which he is entitled. (Ord. 1032 § A, 2-20-1973;
Ord. 1666 § 4, 4-19-2005)
23-9.3: AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT TO INSPECT TAXICABS:
The chief of police or his designee, under his/her direction, shall have the
right at any time, when a taxicab or vehicle for hire is not transporting a
customer and after displaying proper identification, to enter into that vehicle
for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not any of the provisions set forth
in this chapter are being violated.
Such inspection may occur when a customer is present and the chief of police or
his/her designee has probable cause to believe a violation is present. (Ord.
1666 § 5, 4-19-2005)
23-10: RATES:
The operator or owner of a taxicab shall post charges and rates in both the
front and rear passenger sections of said vehicle and in a manner so that the
same shall be clearly visible to passengers.
The city council shall have the power and right at all times for the duration
of the taxi license to regulate and establish reasonable rates and charges. The
taxi company licensee shall submit a list of all proposed rates increases to
the city no less than thirty (30) days prior to the proposed increase taking
effect. If the licensee does not receive any notification from the city, such
licensee may presume that there are no objections on the part of the city to
the rate increase. The establishment of rates and charges shall be
discretionary with the city council. (Ord. Code § 7732.5; Ord. 973 § A, 6-5-
1970; Ord. 1032 § B, 2-20-1973; Ord. 1215 § B, 9-16-1980; Ord. 1666 § 6, 4-19-
2005)
23-11: SOLICITING PATRONAGE:
No owner or operator of any automobile for hire or taxicab shall solicit
patronage for the same from the vehicle or within one hundred (100) yards
therefrom upon any public street, save and except at railroad and interurban
depots and within the boundaries of the space to be designated by the chief of
police for such purposes. (Ord. Code § 7733.1)
23-12: EXCLUSIVE USE OF PERSONS ENGAGING VEHICLE:
No operator or owner of any automobile for hire or taxicab shall solicit or
take on or carry any passenger after such automobile for hire or taxicab shall
have been engaged or while in use for another passenger, without the consent of
the passenger first engaging the same, having been first obtained. A passenger
engaging such automobile shall have the exclusive right to full and free use of
the passenger compartment and the whole thereof if he desires the same. (Ord.
Code § 7733.2)
23-13: AUTOMOBILE FOR HIRE NOT TO BE ADVERTISED AS TAXI OR TAXICAB:
No automobile for hire shall be designated as a "taxi" or "taxicab", or by word
or phrase using the words "taxi" or "taxicab" in any sign or advertising
matter. (Ord. Code § 7734)
23-13.1: OUT OF SERVICE TAXICABS:
When a taxicab is not in service but is being operated on public streets, a
sign shall be affixed on each side of the vehicle, clearly identifying the
vehicle as being "out of service". (Ord. 1666 § 7, 4-19-2005)
ARTICLE II. OPERATING/DRIVER PERMIT
SECTION:
23-14: Required
23-15: Limit Of One Permit To Each Person
23-16: Application; Contents; Fee
23-17: Reserved
23-18: Reserved
23-19: Grounds For Denial Of Permit
23-19.1: Appeal To City Council Regarding Denial Of Permit
23-20: License Fee Prerequisite To Issuance
23-21: Deposit Of Insurance Policy Prerequisite To Issuance Of Operator's
Permit
23-22: Photograph; Fingerprints
23-23: Revocation; Hearing; Notice
23-24: Grounds For Revocation
23-25: Transferability
23-26: Applications For Changes Of Name, Substitution Of Vehicle, Etc.
23-27: Appeal To City Council Regarding Denial Of Application For Changes, Etc.
23-28: Permit Validity Period
23-14: REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated, an automobile for
hire, or a taxicab upon any public street within the city without first having
obtained a permit to do so in accordance with the provisions hereof, and
without complying or having complied with all the provisions of this chapter as
well as those applicable sections of chapter 15 of this code.
No company shall operate a taxicab or vehicle for hire business within the city
of Porterville without having first obtained a business license and an
operating permit from the city of Porterville. No person shall be allowed to
drive a taxicab or vehicle for hire without having first obtained a driver's
permit from the city of Porterville. (Ord. Code § 7711; Ord. 1666 § 8, 4-19-
2005)
23-15: LIMIT OF ONE PERMIT TO EACH PERSON:
No person shall be entitled to hold more than one permit at a time, either as
individual, member of a copartnership, stockholder or officer of a corporation,
or under fictitious name, or otherwise. (Ord. Code § 7712)
23-16: APPLICATION; CONTENTS; FEE:
Any person desiring to obtain the permit required by section 23-14 of this
article shall pay a fee, as fixed by resolution of the city council, and shall
make application for such permit to the chief of police.
   A.   An operator's permit application shall set forth:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, and if the same be a
corporation, the names of its principal officers, or if the same be a
partnership, association or fictitious company, the names of the partners or
persons comprising the association or company, with the address of each.
      2.   A statement as to whether the permit is desired for an automobile
for hire, or a taxicab.
      3.   A description of every motor vehicle which the applicant proposes to
use, giving:
         a.   Trade name;
         b.   Motor and serial number;
         c.   State license number;
         d.   Seating capacity;
         e.   Body style.
      4.   The street number and exact location where the applicant proposes to
stand each automobile.
      5.   Proposed schedule of rates or fares to be charged for carrying of
passengers in such automobile.
      6.   The distinctive color scheme, name, monogram or insignia which shall
be used on such automobile, along with an identifying vehicle number.
   B.   A driver's permit application shall set forth:
      1.   The name, date of birth, physical description, address, and phone
number of the applicant.
      2.   The applicant's California driver's license number, status, and
driving history.
      3.   Place of employment with contact address and phone number.
      4.   Listing of all previous arrests and convictions.
      5.   Other information as deemed pertinent by the chief of police. (Ord.
Code § 7721; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973; Ord. 1666 § 9, 4-19-2005)
23-17: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1215 § A, 9-16-1980)
23-18: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 1215 § A, 9-16-1980)
23-19: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The following reasons shall be sufficient denial of such permit as required in
section 23-14 of this article:
   A.   The application is not in the form, and does not contain the
information required to be contained therein by this chapter.
   B.   The vehicle or vehicles described therein are inadequate or unsafe for
the purposes for which they are to be used.
   C.   The color scheme, name, monogram or insignia to be used upon such
automobile, shall be in conflict with or imitate any color scheme, name,
monogram or insignia used by any person in such manner as to be misleading or
tend to deceive, or defraud the public.
   D.   The applicant has, at some prior time, had a permit for the operation
of automobile for hire, or taxicab revoked for reason. (Ord. Code § 7723; Ord.
946 § A, 8-5-1969; Ord. 1215 § A, 9-16-1980)
23-19.1: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL REGARDING DENIAL OF PERMIT:
In the event the chief of police, for any reason, denies the application of any
applicant or refuses to issue the applicant a permit for the operation of an
automobile for hire or taxicab, such applicant may, on or before the fifteenth
day following said denial, file with the city clerk a written notice of protest
of the decision of the chief of police and a request that the city council
issue the permit requested. Within thirty (30) days following the receipt of
applicant's written notice the same shall be considered by the city council at
a regular or special meeting. The city council shall have full power and
authority to grant or deny the permit for the causes set forth in section 23-19
of this article. (Ord. 946 § C, 8-5-1969)
23-20: LICENSE FEE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE:
Before any permit as required in section 23-14 of this article shall be issued,
a license fee shall be paid to the city at a rate as fixed by the city council,
and failure to pay such license fee aforesaid shall automatically revoke any
permit issued under this article. (Ord. Code § 7722; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
23-21: DEPOSIT OF INSURANCE POLICY PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF OPERATOR'S
PERMIT:
Before an operator's permit required in section 23-14 of this article shall be
issued by the chief of police, the applicant shall deliver to the city clerk a
policy of insurance, executed by a company duly authorized under the laws of
the state to do an insurance business, by the provisions of which policy the
company promises and undertakes to pay in full all claims for damages to
persons or property resulting from the operation of the automobile referred to
in such application; provided, that the minimum amount for which liability
shall be assumed for injury to or death of one person in any one accident shall
be fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) to more than one person in any one accident, and the minimum
amount for which liability shall be assumed for destruction of property in any
one accident shall be twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). (Ord. Code §
7724; Ord. 946 § B, 8-5-1969; Ord. 1666 § 10, 4-19-2005)
23-22: PHOTOGRAPH; FINGERPRINTS:
Before any permit required in section
23-14 of this article shall be issued for the operation of an automobile for
hire or taxicab, the operator thereof, together with all chauffeur's licensed,
shall file with the chief of police, a photograph, size two inches by two and
three-fourths inches (2" x 23/4") and shall have their fingerprints taken by
the chief of police or any authorized deputy. (Ord. Code § 7725)
23-23: REVOCATION; HEARING; NOTICE:
Any permit granted under the provisions of this article may be revoked by the
city council either as a whole or as to any or all cars described therein, or
as to the right to use any distinctive color, monogram or insignia, after five
(5) days' notice to the permit holder, requiring him to appear at a certain
time and place to show cause why such permit should not be revoked for any of
the reasons enumerated in section
23-24 of this article. (Ord. Code § 7742)
23-24: GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION:
Grounds for revocation of a permit by the city council shall be for any of the
following reasons:
   A.   For the nonpayment of any license fee.
   B.   For failure to observe any of the rules and regulations or provisions
set out in this chapter.
   C.   For the violation of any of the laws of the state or ordinances of the
city by any permit holder, operator or driver of an automobile for hire or
taxicab.
   D.   For failure to maintain satisfactory service to the public by means of
any vehicle described in the permit, or for failure to keep any car described
in the permit in use for any unreasonable length of time, or for failure to use
the distinctive color, monogram or insignia described in the application.
   E.   For any cause which in the opinion of the city council makes it
contrary to the public interest, convenience and necessity for the permit to be
continued.
   F.   The undertaking provided for in section
23-21 of this article, has not been given or has been withdrawn or lapsed for
nonpayment of premium, or is not in force for any reason. (Ord. Code § 7742;
Ord. 946 § B, 8-5-1969)
23-25: TRANSFERABILITY:
No permit issued under the terms of this article shall be transferable either
by contract or operation of law without the permission of the chief of police
having been first obtained, and any such attempted transfer shall be sufficient
cause for revocation thereof. (Ord. Code § 7752)
23-26: APPLICATIONS FOR CHANGES OF NAME, SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLE, ETC.:
In the event that any permit holder desires to change his color scheme, name,
monogram or insignia used on such automobile for hire, or taxicab, or to
substitute any vehicle for and in place of the vehicle described in the
application for permit, or to increase or decrease the number of vehicles used
by him as automobiles for hire or taxicabs, he shall make application for
permission to do so from the chief of police which permission shall be granted,
if in the discretion of the chief of police, he deems the public interest,
necessity and convenience will be served by such change, and if the permit
holder has complied with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord. Code § 7751;
Ord. 1032 § B, 2-20-1973)
23-27: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL REGARDING DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR CHANGES,
ETC.:
In the event the chief of police shall refuse to permit any change specified in
section
23-26 of this article, the permit holder may protest the decision of the chief
of police in the time and in the manner set forth in section
23-19.1 of this article, and the city council shall consider and act on said
protest in the time and in the manner set forth in section
23-19.1 of this article, and shall deny the change requested if the council
fails to find that the public interest and convenience will be served by such
change, or if the permit holder has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 946 § C, 8-5-1969; Ord. 1032 § B, 2-20-1973)
23-28: PERMIT VALIDITY PERIOD:
A permit required by this article shall be valid for no longer than a period of
one year. Renewal permits must be completed during the month of January each
year. (Ord. 1166 § B, 2-20-1979; Ord. 1666 § 11, 4-19-2005)
CHAPTER 24
TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS
SECTION:
24-1: State Law Adopted
24-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference division 13, part 2, mobilehome-
manufactured housing, and division 13, part 2.1, the mobilehomes park act of
the California Health and Safety Code. (Ord. 1537 § B73, 8-6-1996)
CHAPTER 24A
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES
SECTION:
24A-1: Definitions
24A-2: Public Hearing By Council
24A-3: Report On Underground Facilities
24A-4: Council May Designate Underground Utility Districts By Resolution
24A-5: Unlawful Acts
24A-6: Exception, Emergency Or Unusual Circumstances
24A-7: Other Exceptions
24A-8: Notice To Property Owners And Utility Companies
24A-9: Responsibility Of Utility Companies
24A-10: Responsibility Of Owners
24A-11: Responsibility Of City
24A-12: Extension Of Time
24A-13: Penalty
24A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter, the words or phrases hereinafter in this section
defined are used, they shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in
the following definitions:
   COMMISSION: The public utilities commission of the state of California.
   PERSON: Shall mean and include individuals, firms, corporations,
partnerships and their agents and employees.
   POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES AND ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES: Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located aboveground within a district
and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated service.
   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS OR DISTRICT: That area in the city within
which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures are prohibited
as such area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of
section 24A-4 of this chapter.
   UTILITY: Shall include all persons or entities supplying electric,
communication or similar or associated service by means of electrical materials
or devices. (Ord. 922 § A, 10-3-1968)
24A-2: PUBLIC HEARING BY COUNCIL:
The council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain whether the
public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires the removal of poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures within designated areas of
the city and the underground installation of wires and facilities for supplying
electric, communication, or similar or associated service. The city clerk shall
notify all affected property owners, as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll and utilities concerned, by mail of the time and place of such hearings at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing shall be
open to the public and may be continued from time to time. At each such hearing
all persons interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The decision
of the council shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 1537 § B74, 8-6-1996)
24A-3: REPORT ON UNDERGROUND FACILITIES:
Prior to holding such public hearing, the public works director or designee,
shall consult with all affected utilities and shall prepare a report for such
hearing by the city council containing, among other information, the extent of
such utilities' participation and estimates of the total costs to the city and
affected property owners. Such report shall also contain an estimate of the
time required to complete such underground installation and removal of overhead
facilities. (Ord. 1537 § B75, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
24A-4: COUNCIL MAY DESIGNATE UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS BY RESOLUTION:
If, after any such public hearing, the council finds that the public necessity,
health, safety or welfare requires such removal and such underground
installation within a designated area, the council shall, by resolution,
declare such designated area an underground utility district and order such
removal and underground installation. Such resolution shall include a
description of the area comprising such district and shall fix the time within
which such removal and underground installation shall be accomplished and
within which affected property owners must be ready to receive underground
service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials and
equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of such
underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby. (Ord. 922 § A, 10-3-1968)
24A-5: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
Whenever the council creates an underground utility district and orders the
removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein as
provided in section
24A-4 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to erect,
construct, place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles, overhead
wires and associated overhead structures in the district after the date when
said overhead facilities are required to be removed by such resolution, except
as said overhead facilities may be required to furnish service to an owner or
occupant of property prior to the performance by such owner or occupant of the
underground work necessary for such owner or occupant to continue to receive
utility service, as provided in section
24A-10 of this chapter, and for such reasonable time required to remove said
facilities after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 922 § A, 10-3-1968)
24A-6: EXCEPTION, EMERGENCY OR UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days without
authority of the public works director or designee in order to provide
emergency service. The public works director or designee may grant special
permission, on such terms as the public works director or designee may deem
appropriate, in cases of unusual circumstances, without discrimination as to
any person or utility, to erect, construct, install, maintain, use or operate
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures. (Ord. 922 § A, 10-3-
1968; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
24A-7: OTHER EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter and any resolution adopted pursuant to section
24A-4 of this chapter shall, unless otherwise provided in such resolution, not
apply to the following types of facilities:
   A.   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the city engineer.
   B.   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting.
   C.   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited.
   D.   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of thirty four
thousand five hundred (34,500) volts.
   E.   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street.
   F.   Antennas, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services.
   G.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets and
concealed ducts.
   H.   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used
in providing power or communications to construction projects. (Ord. 922 § A,
10-3-1968; Ord. 993 § A, 2-2-1971)
24A-8: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES:
Within ten (10) days after the effective date of a resolution adopted pursuant
to section
24A-4 of this chapter, the city clerk shall notify all affected utilities and
all persons owning real property within the district created by said resolution
of the adoption thereof. Said city clerk shall further notify such affected
property owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such
property desire to continue to receive electric, communication, or similar or
associated service, they or such occupant shall provide all necessary facility
changes on their premises so as to receive such service from the lines of the
supplying utility or utilities at a new location subject to the applicable
rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file
with the commission.
Notification by the city clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to section
24A-4 of this chapter, together with a copy of this chapter, to affected
property owners as such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to
the affected utilities. (Ord. 922 § A, 10-3-1968)
24A-9: RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES:
If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to section
24A-4 of this chapter, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the
conduits, conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it
under its applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the
commission. (Ord. 922 § A, 10-3-1968)
24A-10: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS:
   A.   Every person owning, operating, occupying or renting a building or
structure within a district shall construct and provide that portion of the
service connection on his property between the facilities referred to in
section
24A-9 of this chapter and the termination facility on or within said building
or structure being served, all in accordance with the applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the
commission. If the above is not accomplished by any person within the time
provided for in the resolution enacted pursuant to section
24A-4 of this chapter, the public works director or designee shall give notice
in writing to the person in possession of such premises, and a notice in
writing to the owner thereof as shown on the last equalized assessment roll, to
provide the required underground facilities within ten (10) days after the
receipt of such notice.
   B.   The notice to provide the required underground facilities may be given
either by personal service or by mail. In case of service by mail on either of
such persons, the notice must be deposited in the United States mail in a
sealed envelope with postage prepaid, addressed to the person in possession of
such premises at such premises, and the notice must be addressed to the owner
thereof as such owner's name appears and must be addressed to such owner's last
known address as the same appears on the last equalized assessment roll, and
when no address appears, to general delivery, city of Porterville. If the
notice is given by mail, such notice shall be deemed to have been received by
the person to whom it has been sent within forty eight (48) hours after the
mailing thereof. If notice is given by mail to either the owner or occupant of
such premises, the public works director or designee shall, within forty eight
(48) hours after the mailing thereof, cause a copy thereof, printed on a card
not less than eight inches by ten inches (8" x 10") in size, to be posted in a
conspicuous place on said premises.
   C.   The notice given by the public works director or designee to provide
the required underground facilities shall particularly specify what work is
required to be done, and shall state that if said work is not completed within
thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice, the public works director or
designee will provide such required underground facilities, in which case the
cost and expense thereof will be assessed against the property benefited and
become a lien upon such property.
   D.   If upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day period the said required
underground facilities have not been provided, the public works director or
designee shall forthwith proceed to do the work; provided, however, if such
premises are unoccupied and no electric communications services are being
furnished thereto, the public works director or designee shall, in lieu of
providing the required underground facilities, have the authority to order the
disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and associated
facilities supplying utility service to said property. Upon completion of the
work by the public works director or designee, he shall file a written report
with the city council setting forth the fact that the required underground
facilities have been provided and the cost thereof, together with a legal
description of the property against which such cost is to be assessed. The
council shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing protests against the
assessment of the cost of such work upon such premises, which said time shall
not be less than ten (10) days thereafter.
   E.   The public works director or designee shall forthwith, upon the time
for hearing such protests having been fixed, give a notice in writing to the
person in possession of such premises, and a notice in writing thereof to the
owner thereof, in the manner hereinabove provided for the giving of the notice
to provide the required underground facilities, of the time and place that the
council will pass upon such report and will hear protests against such
assessment. Such notice shall also set forth the amount of the proposed
assessment.
   F.   Upon the date and hour set for the hearing of protests, the council
shall hear and consider the report and all protests, if there be any, and then
proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment.
   G.   If any assessment is not paid within five (5) days after its
confirmation by the council, the amount of the assessment shall become a lien
upon the property against which the assessment is made by the public works
director or designee, and the public works director or designee is directed to
turn over to the assessor and tax collector a notice of lien on each of said
properties on which the assessment has not been paid, and said assessor and tax
collector shall add the amount of said assessment to the next regular bill for
taxes levied against the premises upon which said assessment was not paid.
Said assessment shall be due and payable at the same time as said property
taxes are due and payable, and if not paid when due and payable, shall bear
interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum. (Ord. 922 § A, 10-3-1968;
Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
24A-11: RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY:
City shall remove at its own expense all city owned equipment from all poles
required to be removed hereunder in ample time to enable the owner or user of
such poles to remove the same within the time specified in the resolution
enacted pursuant to section
24A-4 hereof. (Ord. 922 § A, 10-3-1968)
24A-12: EXTENSION OF TIME:
In the event that any act required by this chapter or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to section
24A-4 of this chapter cannot be performed within the time provided on account
of shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience, or any other circumstances beyond the control
of the actor, then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be
extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation. (Ord. 922 § A,
10-3-1968)
24A-13: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter; or failing to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Each such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each day during any portion of which any violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by such
person, and shall be punishable therefor as provided for in this chapter. (Ord.
922 § A, 10-3-1968)
ARTICLE I. REGULATION OF STATE VIDEO FRANCHISE HOLDERS
SECTION:
24B-1: Purpose And Authority
24B-2: Definitions
24B-3: Requirements
24B-4: Authority To Examine Business Records
24B-5: Customer Service Standards And Penalties
24B-6: Application Procedure
24B-7: Development Review For Facilities In Streets And Public Rights Of Way
24B-8: Construction Standards
24B-9: Environmental Review
24B-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
This article is designed to regulate video service providers holding state
video franchises and operating within the city. As of January 1, 2007, the
state of California will have the sole authority to grant state video
franchises pursuant to the digital infrastructure and video competition act of
2006. Pursuant to the act the city of Porterville shall receive a franchise fee
and shall receive a fee for public educational and government PEG purposes from
all state video franchise holders operating within the city. Additionally the
city will acquire the responsibility to establish and enforce penalties
consistent with state law against all state video franchise holders operating
within the city for violations of customer service standards; however, the act
grants all authority to adopt customer service standards to the state. The act
leaves unchanged the city's authority to regulate the city's current cable
franchise and the cable franchise currently in effect until such time as the
cable franchisee no longer holds a city franchise or is no longer operating
under a current or expired city franchise. (Ord. 1735, 11-20-2007)
24B-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly set forth in this section or elsewhere in this
article, the definitions of the terms herein shall have the same meaning as
defined in the California Public Utilities Code section 5830, and as otherwise
defined in the digital infrastructure and video competition act of 2006, as
amended. For the purposes of this chapter, the words, terms, phrases, and
abbreviations have the meanings set forth below. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, and words in
the singular include the plural number. Unless otherwise expressly stated,
words, terms, phrases, and abbreviations not defined in this section either
directly or by reference to state law will be given their meaning as used in
title 47 of the United States Code, as amended, and, if not defined in that
code, their meaning as used in title 47 of the code of federal regulations.
   AFFILIATE: When used in relation to any person, another person who owns or
controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control
with, such person.
   CFR: The code of federal regulations. Thus, the citation of "47 CFR 80.1"
refers to title 47, part 80, section 1, of the code of federal regulations.
   CABLE SYSTEM OPERATOR OR CABLE OPERATOR: Any person or group of persons:
   A.   Who provides cable service over a cable system and directly or through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system; or
   B.   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of that cable system.
   CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Porterville, or the city
manager's designee.
   COMMUNICATIONS ACT: The communications act of 1934 (47 USC section 153 et
seq.), as amended by the cable communications policy act of 1984, the cable
television consumer protection and competition act of 1992, and the
telecommunications act of 1996.
   FCC OR FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION: The federal administrative agency,
or any lawful successor, that is authorized to regulate cable and
telecommunications services and cable and telecommunications service providers
on a national level.
   FRANCHISE FEE: Any fee or assessment of any kind that is authorized by state
or federal law to be imposed by the city on a grantee as compensation in the
nature of rent for the grantee's use of the public rights of way. The term
"franchise fee" does not include:
   A.   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any such
tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their
services, but not including a tax, fee or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
   B.   Capital costs that are required by the franchise to be incurred by a
grantee for public, educational, or governmental access facilities;
   C.   Requirements or charges that are incidental to the award or enforcement
of the franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of
credit, insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
   D.   Any fee imposed under title 17, United States Code.
   FRANCHISE SERVICE AREA OR SERVICE AREA: The entire geographical area of the
city as it is now constituted, or may in the future be constituted, unless
otherwise specified in the ordinance or resolution granting a franchise, or in
a franchise agreement.
   GROSS REVENUE: Shall be defined in accordance to California Public Utilities
Code section 5860 subdivision (d).
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, limited liability company, association,
joint stock company, trust, corporation or governmental entity.
   PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENT ACCESS FACILITIES, PEG ACCESS FACILITIES,
OR PEG ACCESS: The total of the following:
   A.   Channel capacity designated for noncommercial public, educational, or
government use; and
   B.   Facilities and equipment for the use of that channel capacity.
   STREET OR PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Each of the following that has been dedicated
to the public and maintained under public authority or by others and is located
within the city limits: streets, roadways, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys,
sidewalks, easements, rights of way and similar public property that the city
from time to time authorizes within the definition of a street.
   SUBSCRIBER OR CUSTOMER OR CONSUMER: Any person who pays for or lawfully
receives cable or video services provided by a cable operator or video services
provider by means of the cable system or video system.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by
the user, of information of the user's choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT: Equipment, other than customer premises
equipment, used by a telecommunications service provider to provide
telecommunications service, including software that is integral to that
equipment.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The offering of telecommunications directly to
the public for a fee, or to such classes of users as to be effectively
available directly to the public, regardless of the equipment or facilities
that are used.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: Any provider of telecommunications
service.
   USC: The United States Code. Thus, the citation of "47 USC section 153"
refers to title 47, section 153, of the United States Code.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING PROVIDER: Any person or group of persons who has the right
under the federal copyright laws to select and to contract for the carriage of
specific video programming on a cable system or an open video system.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER: Any person, company, or service that provides one or
more channels of video programming to a residence, including a home, multi-
family dwelling complex, congregate living complex, condominium, apartment or
mobile home, where some fee is paid for that service, whether directly or as
included in dues or rental charges, and whether or not public rights of way are
used in the delivery of that video programming. A "video provider" includes,
without limitation, providers of cable television service, open video system
service, master antenna television, satellite master antenna providers, direct
broadcast satellite, multipoint distribution services and other providers of
video programming, whatever their technology. (Ord. 1735, 11-20-2007)
24B-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Video Franchise Holder Fee To The City: For any state video
franchise holder operating within the boundaries of the city of Porterville
there shall be a fee paid to the city equal to five percent (5%) of the gross
revenue of that state video franchise holder.
   B.   PEG Fee: A separate fee of one percent (1%) of gross revenues shall be
assessed on all state franchise holders that use the public rights of way,
including all local franchisees and all holders of state franchises as
consistent with state or federal law. The PEG fee shall be paid quarterly, to
be received by the city not later than forty five (45) days after the close of
each quarter of holder's fiscal year.
      1.   On a quarterly basis, holder shall provide the city a complete and
accurate statement verified by a financial officer of holder indicating gross
revenues for the past quarter, listing every revenue source, and depicting
gross revenue computations.
      2.   A video service provider subject to this section may recover the
amount of any fee by billing a recovery fee as a separate line item on the
regular bill of each subscriber.
   C.   Channel Designation: All video service providers that use the public
rights of way shall designate sufficient amount of capacity on its network to
allow the carriage of at least three (3) public, educational, or governmental
(PEG) access channels. For the purposes of this section, a PEG access channel
is deemed activated if it is being utilized for PEG access programming within
the city for at least eight (8) hours per day. PEG access channels shall be for
the exclusive use of the city or its designees to provide public, educational,
or governmental channels.
      1.   Advertising, underwriting, or sponsorship recognition may be carried
on the PEG access channels for the purpose of funding PEG related activities.
      2.   The PEG access channels shall all be carried on the basic service
tier of holder.
      3.   To the extent feasible, the PEG access channels shall not be
separated numerically from other channels carried on the basic service tier and
the channel numbers for the PEG access channels shall be the same channel
numbers used by the incumbent cable operator unless prohibited by federal law.
      4.   After the initial designation of PEG access channel numbers, the
channel numbers shall not be changed without the prior written consent of the
city unless the change is required by federal law.
      5.   Each PEG access channel shall be capable of carrying a national
television system committee (NTSC) television signal.
      6.   Requests by the city for additional channel capacity will be made in
accordance to PUC section 5870.
   D.   Interconnection: Where technically feasible, a state video franchise
holder and incumbent cable operator shall negotiate in good faith to
interconnect their networks for the purpose of providing PEG access channel
programming. Interconnection may be accomplished by direct cable, microwave
link, satellite, or other reasonable method of connection. State video
franchise holders and incumbent cable operators shall provide interconnection
of the PEG access channels on reasonable terms and conditions and may not
withhold the interconnection. If a state video franchise holder and an
incumbent cable operator cannot reach a mutually acceptable interconnection
agreement, the city may require the incumbent cable operator to allow the state
video franchise holder to interconnect its network with the incumbent's network
at a technically feasible point on the holder's network as identified by the
holder. If no technically feasible point for interconnection is available, the
state video franchise holder shall make an interconnection available to the
channel originator and shall provide the facilities necessary for the
interconnection. The cost of any interconnection shall be borne by the state
video franchise holder requesting the interconnection unless otherwise agreed
to by the parties.
   E.   Emergency Alert System And Emergency Overrides: A state video franchise
holder must comply with the emergency alert system requirements of the federal
communications commission in order that emergency messages may be distributed
over the holder's network. Provisions in city issued franchises authorizing the
city to provide local emergency notifications shall remain in effect, and shall
apply to all state video franchise holders in the city for the duration of the
city issued franchise, or until the term of the franchise would have expired
had it not been terminated pursuant to subdivision (m) of section 5840 of the
California Public Utilities Code, or until January 1, 2009, whichever is later.
   F.   Gross Revenue: Gross revenue, for the purpose of this section, shall
have the definition set forth in California Public Utilities Code section 5860.
(Ord. 1735, 11-20-2007)
24B-4: AUTHORITY TO EXAMINE BUSINESS RECORDS:
Not more than once annually, the city manager or his or her designee may
examine the business records of a holder of a state video franchise to ensure
compliance with section 24B-3 of this article, under the terms and conditions
set forth in the act. (Ord. 1735, 11-20-2007)
24B-5: CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS AND PENALTIES:
The holder of a state video franchise shall comply with all applicable state
and federal customer service and protection standards pertaining to the
provision of video service.
   A.   Compliance: Unless the customer protection and customer service
obligations of a video provider are specified in a franchise with the city, a
video provider must comply with all applicable provisions of the cable
television and video customer service and information act 1  and the video
customer service act 2 .
   B.   Registration: All video providers that are operating in the city on the
effective date of this chapter, or that intend to operate in the city after the
effective date of this chapter, and are not required under applicable law to
operate under a franchise, license, lease, or similar written agreement with
the city, must register with the city. The registration form must include or be
accompanied by the following:
      1.   The video provider's name, address, and local telephone numbers.
      2.   The names of the officers of the video provider.
      3.   A copy of the video provider's written policies and procedures
relating to customer service standards and the handling of customer complaints,
as required by California Government Code section 53054 et seq. These customer
service standards must include, without limitation, standards regarding the
following:
         a.   Installation, disconnection, service and repair obligations,
employee identification, and service call response time and scheduling.
         b.   Customer telephone and office hours.
         c.   Procedures for billing, charges, refunds, and credits.
         d.   Procedures for termination of service.
         e.   Notice of the deletion of a programming service, the changing of
channel assignments, or an increase in rates.
         f.   Complaint procedures and procedures for bill dispute resolution.
         g.   The video provider's written acknowledgment of its obligation
under California Government Code section 53055.1 to provide to new customers a
notice describing the customer service standards specified in subsections B3a
through B3f of this section at the time of installation or when service is
initiated. The notice must also include, in addition to all of the information
described in subsections B3a through B3f of this section, all of the following:
            (1)   A listing of the services offered by the video provider that
clearly describes all levels of service and the rates for each level of
service.
            (2)   The telephone number or numbers through which customers may
subscribe to, change, or terminate service, request customer service, or seek
general or billing information.
            (3)   A description of the rights and remedies that the video
provider may make available to its customers if the video provider does not
materially meet its customer service standards.
         h.   The video provider's written commitment to distribute annually to
its employees and customers, and to the city, a notice describing the customer
service standards specified in subsections B3a through B3f of this section.
This annual notice must include the report of the video provider on its
performance in meeting its customer service standards, as required by
California Government Code section 53055.2.
      4.   Unless a video provider is exempt under federal law from its
payment, a registration fee in an amount established by resolution of the city
council to cover the reasonable costs incurred by the city in reviewing and
processing the registration form.
      5.   In addition to the registration fee specified in subsection B4 of
this section, the written commitment of the video provider to pay to the city,
when due, all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the city in resolving
any disputes between the video provider and its subscribers, which dispute
resolution is mandated by California Government Code section 53088.2(o).
   C.   Customer Service Obligations: The customer service obligations imposed
upon video providers by the video customer service act 3  consist of the
following:
      1.   Every video provider must render reasonably efficient service, make
repairs promptly, and interrupt service only as necessary.
      2.   All video provider personnel contacting subscribers or potential
subscribers outside the office of the provider must be clearly identified as
associated with the video provider.
      3.   At the time of installation, and annually thereafter, all video
providers must provide to all customers a written notice of the programming
offered, the prices for that programming, the provider's installation and
customer service policies, and the name, address, and telephone number of the
city's office that is designated for receiving complaints.
      4.   All video providers must have knowledgeable, qualified company
representatives available to respond to customer telephone inquiries Monday
through Friday, excluding holidays, during normal business hours.
      5.   All video providers must provide to customers a toll free or local
telephone number for installation, service, and complaint calls. These calls
must be answered promptly by the video providers.
      6.   All video providers must render bills that are accurate and
understandable.
      7.   All video providers must respond promptly to a complete outage in a
customer's service. The response must occur within twenty four (24) hours of
the reporting of such outage to the provider, except in those situations beyond
the reasonable control of the video provider. A video provider will be deemed
to respond to a complete outage when a company representative arrives at the
outage location within twenty four (24) hours and begins to resolve the
problem.
      8.   All video providers must provide a minimum of thirty (30) days'
written notice before increasing rates or deleting channels. All video
providers must make every reasonable effort to submit the notice to the city in
advance of the distribution to customers. The thirty (30) day notice is waived
if the increases in rates or deletion of channels are outside the control of
the video provider. In those cases, the video provider must make reasonable
efforts to provide customers with as much notice as possible.
      9.   Every video provider must allow every residential customer who pays
his or her bill directly to the video provider at least fifteen (15) days from
the date the bill for services is mailed to the customer, to pay the listed
charges unless otherwise agreed to pursuant to a residential rental agreement
establishing tenancy. Customer payments must be posted promptly. No video
provider may terminate residential service for nonpayment of a delinquent
account unless the video provider furnishes notice of the delinquency and
impending termination at least fifteen (15) days prior to the proposed
termination. The notice must be mailed, postage prepaid, to the customer to
whom the service is billed. Notice must not be mailed until the sixteenth day
after the date the bill for services was mailed to the customer. The notice of
delinquency and impending termination may be part of a billing statement. No
video provider may assess a late fee any earlier than the twenty second day
after the bill for service has been mailed.
      10.   Every notice of termination of service pursuant to subsection C9 of
this section must include all of the following information:
         a.   The name and address of the customer whose account is delinquent.
         b.   The amount of the delinquency.
         c.   The date by which payment is required in order to avoid
termination of service.
         d.   The telephone number of a representative of the video provider
who can provide additional information and handle complaints or initiate an
investigation concerning the service and charges in question.
      11.   Service may only be terminated on days in which the customer can
reach a representative of the video provider either in person or by telephone.
      12.   Any service terminated without good cause must be restored without
charge for the service restoration. Good cause includes, but is not limited to,
failure to pay, payment by check for which there are insufficient funds, theft
of service, abuse of equipment or system personnel, or other similar subscriber
actions.
      13.   All video providers must issue requested refund checks promptly,
but no later than forty five (45) days following the resolution of any dispute,
and following the return of the equipment supplied by the video provider, if
service is terminated.
      14.   All video providers must issue security or customer deposit refund
checks promptly, but no later than forty five (45) days following the
termination of service, less any deductions permitted by law.
      15.   Video providers must not disclose the name and address of a
subscriber for commercial gain to be used in mailing lists or for other
commercial purposes not reasonably related to the conduct of the businesses of
the video providers or their affiliates, unless the video providers have
provided to the subscriber a notice, separate or included in any other customer
notice, that clearly and conspicuously describes the subscriber's ability to
prohibit the disclosure. Video providers must provide an address and telephone
number for a local subscriber to use without toll charge to prevent disclosure
of the subscriber's name and address.
   D.   Penalties For Noncompliance:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection D is to authorize the
imposition of monetary penalties for the violation of the customer service
standards established by this section. The imposition of penalties authorized
by this subsection D will not prevent the city or any other affected party from
exercising any other remedy to the extent permitted by law, including, but not
limited to, any judicial remedy as provided in subsection D2d of this section.
      2.   Administration And Appeals:
         a.   Authority: The city manager or the city manager's designee is
authorized to administer this subsection D. Decisions by the city manager to
assess monetary penalties against the holder must be in writing and must
contain findings supporting the decisions. Decisions by the city manager are
final, unless appealed by the holder or aggrieved party.
         b.   Appeal: A state video franchise holder may appeal a penalty
assessed by the city manager to the city council within thirty (30) days of the
initial assessment. The city council shall hear all evidence and relevant
testimony and may uphold, modify or vacate the penalty. The city council's
decision on the imposition of a penalty shall be final.
         c.   Schedule Of Penalties: The following schedule of penalties shall
apply to state franchise holders, in the event of a violation of any
requirement or obligation established by applicable law:
            (1)   For the first occurrence of a violation, a monetary penalty
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed for each day the violation
remains in effect, not to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
for each violation.
            (2)   For a second violation of the same nature within twelve (12)
months, a monetary penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be imposed
for each day the violation remains in effect, not to exceed three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00) for each violation.
            (3)   For a third or further violation of the same nature within
twelve (12) months, a monetary penalty of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) shall be imposed for each day the violation remains in effect, not
to exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) for each violation.
            (4)   The maximum penalties referenced above may be increased by
any additional amount authorized by state law.
         d.   Judicial Remedy: This subsection does not preclude any affected
party from pursuing any judicial remedy available to that party without regard
to this subsection.
         e.   Notice Of Violation: The city must give the holder written notice
of any alleged violation of the consumer service standards and allow the holder
at least thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
violation.
         f.   Assessment Of Monetary Penalties:
            (1)   If a violation has not been corrected or cured by holder
within the time specified by the city, the monetary penalties specified in
subsection D2c of this section may be assessed from the date of delivery to
holder of the city's written notice of violation.
            (2)   In assessing monetary penalties under this subsection, the
city manager or the city council, as applicable, may take into account the
nature, circumstances, extent and gravity of the violation and, with respect to
the holder, the degree of culpability, any history of prior violations, and
such other matters as may be relevant. If warranted under the circumstances,
the monetary penalty to be assessed may be less than the maximum penalty amount
specified in subsection D2c of this section.
   E.   Additional Consumer Protection And Service Standards:
      1.   In addition to the consumer protection and service standards that
are specified in subsections B3a through B3h of this section, the franchise
agreement with a holder may require compliance with the following:
         a.   Federal statutes, and the rules, regulations, and orders of the
federal communications commission, including the following:
            (1)   The provisions of section 76.309(c) of chapter 47 of the code
of federal regulations, as it now exists or may later be amended.
            (2)   The provisions of section 76.630 of chapter 47 of the code of
federal regulations, as it now exists or may later be amended.
            (3)   The provisions of section 551 of chapter 47, United States
Code, as it now exists or may later be amended.
            (4)   The provisions of California Government Code section 53054 et
seq., entitled the "cable television and video provider customer service and
information act".
            (5)   The provisions of California Government Code section 53088 et
seq., entitled the "video customer service act".
            (6)   The provisions of California Civil Code section 1722(b)(1)–
(6) relating to service or repair transactions between cable television
companies and their subscribers.
            (7)   The provisions of California Penal Code section 637.5
relating to subscribers' rights to privacy protection.
      2.   The city may, in its discretion, incorporate in a franchise
agreement those customer service and protection standards referenced in
subsection E1 of this section that are the most stringent, and that afford the
greatest protection to consumers. These standards will apply, to the extent
authorized by law, to all video, voice, and data services that are provided by
the holder to its subscribers within the franchise service area.
   F.   Quarterly Reports: A state franchise holder and any franchisee, upon
request by the city, shall prepare quarterly reports showing compliance
customer service standards for telephone response performance. Such reports
will be due to the city within forty five (45) days from the end of each
calendar quarter. The report should detail customer call center performance
within all call centers serving the city showing data tracked and aggregated
for the entire market area served by the call centers. The report shall
include:
      1.   Calls offered to interactive voice router (IVR);
      2.   Calls handled within IVR;
      3.   Percentage of calls handled within IVR;
      4.   Calls offered to agents;
      5.   Calls handled within thirty (30) seconds;
      6.   Service level or percentage of calls answered within thirty (30)
seconds;
      7.   Number of abandoned calls;
      8.   Percentage of calls abandoned;
      9.   Average speed to answer a call;
      10.   Number of calls reaching a busy signal;
      11.   Percentage of busy calls as a function of total calls. (Ord. 1735,
11-20-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 53054 et seq.
2 2. Gov.C. § 53088 et seq.
3 1. Gov.C. § 53088 et seq.
24B-6: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Applicants for state video franchises within the boundaries of the city of
Porterville must concurrently provide complete copies to the city of any
application or amendments to applications filed with the public utilities
commission. One complete copy must be provided to the city manager. Within
thirty (30) days of receipt the city manager will provide any appropriate
comments to the PUC regarding an application or an amendment to an application
for a state video franchise. (Ord. 1735, 11-20-2007)
24B-7: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FOR FACILITIES IN STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
Prior to construction or alteration of any facilities in, on, over, under,
upon, across, and along the public streets and rights of way within the city of
Porterville, a state video franchise holder shall for each facility submit
plans and drawings to the community development and/or public works directors
for review pursuant to the city's applicable regulations. For purposes of this
section facilities includes wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults,
manholes, amplifiers, appliances, pedestals, attachments, and other property
and equipment as are necessary and appurtenant to the operation of the video
service system. (Ord. 1735, 11-20-2007)
24B-8: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All applicable construction standards as set forth in the city regulations
shall apply to state video service franchise holders constructing or altering
any facilities within the city. (Ord. 1735, 11-20-2007)
24B-9: ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW:
The city of Porterville shall serve as the lead agency for any environmental
review that is required for construction or alteration of facilities by a state
video service franchise holder within the city of Porterville and may impose
conditions to mitigate environmental impacts of the applicant's use of the
public rights of way that may be required by the California environmental
quality act, division 13 commencing with section 21000 of the Public Resources
Code. (Ord. 1735, 11-20-2007)
CHAPTER 25
WATER, SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
ARTICLE I. WATER
SECTION:
Division 1. Generally
25-1: Enforcement Of Article
25-2: Right Of Entry For Inspection; Authority To Order Repair Of Defects
25-3: Unauthorized Interference With Water System Generally
25-4: Right To Discontinue Service For Repairs
Division 2. Installation Of Service
25-6: Application For Service Generally; Connection Charges
25-7: Application For Service For Fire Protection
25-8: Guarantee Of Payment Of Water Bills By Property Owners; Authorized
Generally; Lien
25-9: Guarantee Of Payment Of Water Bills By Property Owners; Required When
Multiple Users Occupy Premises Under Single Ownership
25-10: Deposit; Required When Property Owner Does Not Guarantee Payment Of Bill
25-11: Deposit; Refund
25-12: Limits Of Common Service Generally
25-13: Common Service Unauthorized For Premises Separately Owned
25-13.1: City Not Responsible For Water Damage
25-13.2: Consumer Responsible For Equipment Receiving Water
Division 3. Water Service Rates
25-14: Use Of Meter Required; Exceptions
25-15: Rates Generally
25-16: Water Service Outside City; Rate
25-16.1: Rates For Independent Water Companies
25-16.2: Approval For Water Service Outside City Limits
25-17: Resale Of Water Prohibited
25-18: City Collector To Collect Water Rates; Records; Disposition Of Revenues
25-19: Due Date Of Payments; Penalty For Delinquent Payment
25-20: Method Of Delivery Of Bills
25-21: Shutoff For Nonpayment; Additional Payment To Reconnect; Deposit
Required For Consumers
25-22: Disconnection At New Location For Nonpayment At Old Location
25-23: Written Demand For Change In Service Required
25-24: Collection Of Unpaid Water Bill By Suit
Division 4. Meters, Stopcocks And Hydrants
25-25: Two Stopcocks To Be Placed In Each Connection
25-26: Testing And Adjustments To Meters
25-27: Obstruction Of Stopcocks And Hydrants Generally
Division 5. Extension Of Water Mains Generally
25-28: Size And Specifications Generally
25-29: Estimate Of Cost; Application Accompanied By Deposit Of Amount Of
Estimate
25-30: Developer Construction Of Facilities
25-31: Cost To Include Cost Of Excavation, Backfill, Fittings, Etc.
25-32: Mains, Fittings, Etc., To Remain Property Of City
25-32.1: Connection Not Made Until Prorated Charge Paid
25-32.2: Construction Of Fire Hydrants And Financing Thereof
25-32.3: Acreage Fee
25-32.4: Cross Connections
Division 6. Water Conservation And Efficiency
25-32A.1: Purpose
25-32A.2: Applicability
25-32A.3: Definitions
25-32A.4: Compliance With Landscape Documentation Package
25-32A.5: Elements Of The Landscape Documentation Package
25-32A.6: Water Efficient Landscape Worksheet
25-32A.7: Soil Management Report
25-32A.8: Landscape Design Plan
25-32A.9: Irrigation Design Plan
25-32A.10: Grading Design Plan
25-32A.11: Certificate Of Completion
25-32A.12: Irrigation Scheduling
25-32A.13: Landscape And Irrigation Maintenance Schedule
25-32A.14: Irrigation Audit, Irrigation Survey, And Irrigation Water Use
Analysis
25-32A.15: Irrigation Efficiency
25-32A.16: Recycled Water
25-32A.17: Gray Water Systems
25-32A.18: Stormwater Management And Rainwater Retention
25-32A.19: Public Education
25-32A.20: Irrigation Audit, Irrigation Survey, And Irrigation Water Use
Analysis, Existing
25-32A.21: Water Waste Prevention
25-32A.22: Effective Precipitation
25-32A.23: Prescriptive Compliance Option
25-32A.24: Penalties
25-32A.25: Reporting
25-32A.26: Wasteful Use Of Water Prohibited
25-32A.27: City Water Conservation Plan
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
25-1: ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE:
It shall be unlawful for officials of the city or of the water department to
disregard or fail to enforce the provisions of this article in their
administration of the same. (Ord. Code § 3534)
25-2: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION; AUTHORITY TO ORDER REPAIR OF DEFECTS:
The city or its authorized representative shall have authority to enter any
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspecting any equipment
that may be installed on such premises, when there is reason to believe such
installation of equipment is such as to be a hazard to the water system or any
portion thereof. The city shall have the authority to order the correction of
any faulty installation, or to order the owner or consumer to install at his
own expense, any fixture or apparatus that may be necessary to protect the
water system from damage, and if necessary, may shut off the water from that
connection until the service shall be made safe. (Ord. 1537 § B76, 8-6-1996)
25-3: UNAUTHORIZED INTERFERENCE WITH WATER SYSTEM GENERALLY:
No person, except the public works director or designee, or someone authorized
by him, shall tap the mains or pipes of the city water system, or in any way
interfere with the works or service of such system, nor shall anyone without
authority from the public works director, or designee, turn on or shut off
water to or from any building or premises connected with such system, except by
the use of a stop valve located on their own premises. No person shall without
the permission of the public works director or designee enter into any building
or enclosure, climb up any ladder or onto any tower or reservoir, or touch any
machinery, materials, or tools, change any meter gauge or register, or molest
in any way any of the property of the city water system. (Ord. 1537 § B77, 8-6-
1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
25-4: RIGHT TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE FOR REPAIRS:
The city reserves the right to shut off the water at any time for the purpose
of making repairs or making extensions to the system or for any other purpose
and will not be responsible for any damage resulting from the same. (Ord. Code
§ 3554)
DIVISION 2. INSTALLATION OF SERVICE
25-6: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE GENERALLY; CONNECTION CHARGES:
Before water shall be supplied to any premises, the consumer or owner shall
file a written application with the department of community development and
services. The public works director or designee, as a condition precedent to
the granting of such application and furnishing any water to such owner or
consumer, is authorized to and shall require payment in advance therefor at
rates as fixed by resolution of the city council.
On payment of the proper service charge, as above specified, the public works
director, or designee, shall make connection by installing a water meter of the
designated size, and the consumer, at his own cost, shall extend the pipe
therefrom to his property. The city shall be required to make service
connections only where there is a water main passing along the street or alley
adjoining the applicant's property.
Nothing in this section shall obligate the city to install a meter of larger
size than two inches (2"); but a meter of larger size with service enlargement
may be installed by special agreement at actual cost to the consumer, including
cost of meter. (Ord. 1537 § B79, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
25-7: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE FOR FIRE PROTECTION:
Whenever water service, exclusively for fire protection, is requested by a
consumer or owner and the service pipe is in excess of two and one-half inches
(21/2") in diameter, the city shall install such service to the property line
on payment by the applicant of the cost thereof, and no water meter shall be
installed unless the service line shall contain a suitable valve for
controlling the water supply to the premises. No charge is to be made for water
consumed in the event of fire or water used for testing fire equipment.
Periodically the fire department shall inspect the service and satisfy
themselves that no water is being used through such service except for fire
purposes or in testing fire equipment on the premises. (Ord. 1537 § B80, 8-6-
1996)
25-8: GUARANTEE OF PAYMENT OF WATER BILLS BY PROPERTY OWNERS; AUTHORIZED
GENERALLY; LIEN:
The owners of any property where water is furnished by the city may assume
responsibility for the payment of such water by filing with the water
department a written acceptance of such responsibility in a form approved by
the city attorney, guaranteeing payment of all water bills accruing against
such property or utilized by consumers on such property. The writing shall
provide that unpaid water bills may be a lien on said property and the amount
of said unpaid water bill may be added to the tax statement for said real
property and collected in the same manner as real property taxes. (Ord. Code §
3543; Ord. 845 § A, 11-16-1965)
25-9: GUARANTEE OF PAYMENT OF WATER BILLS BY PROPERTY OWNERS; REQUIRED WHEN
MULTIPLE USERS OCCUPY PREMISES UNDER SINGLE OWNERSHIP:
Where there is more than one consumer occupying premises held under the same
ownership, each owner shall file with the finance department a written
acceptance of responsibility in the same form as provided for in section 25-
8 of this article for payment of all water bills accruing against such property
or utilized by consumers on such property and guaranteeing payment of said
water bills.
In the event of a refusal by an owner to do so, the city shall after thirty
(30) days' notice to the consumer so served, and to the owner of such premises,
or the person in charge thereof, cut off the water from such premises until an
independent service is provided from the curb line to each independent consumer
for which the owner has not assumed such responsibility. (Ord. 1537 § B81, 8-6-
1996)
25-10: DEPOSIT; REQUIRED WHEN PROPERTY OWNER DOES NOT GUARANTEE PAYMENT OF
BILL:
In the event of the refusal of the property owner to become responsible for
utility bills as set forth in section 25-8 of this article, the city shall
require a cash deposit to be made with the department of finance by the
consumer or the owner as follows:
   A.   In the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) before beginning water
service.
   B.   In the amount of five dollars ($5.00) before beginning refuse removal
service only.
   C.   In the amount of five dollars ($5.00) before beginning sewer rental
service only.
   D.   In the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) before beginning refuse removal
service and sewer rental service only.
   E.   In the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) before beginning water
service, refuse removal service, and sewer rental service.
   F.   In no case shall the combined deposits exceed twenty dollars ($20.00).
(Ord. Code § 3545; Ord. 704 § 2; Ord. 845 § C, 11-16-1965; Ord. 925 § A, 10-1-
1968)
25-11: DEPOSIT; REFUND:
Deposits made to secure payment of utility bills shall be returned to the
person making the deposit under the following conditions:
   A.   When change of ownership or occupancy shall relieve such person from
liability for the utility services, provided that all charges against such
services shall have been paid.
   B.   When, in the opinion of the administrative services director or
designee, the person has established a good payment record by paying all
utility bills without tardiness or penalty for a minimum of one year.
No charge shall be made for beginning or terminating a utility service when
same is made at the request of the owner or consumer, after all charges due
against that service are paid. (Ord. Code § 3546; Ord. 925 § B, 10-1-1968; Ord.
1614 § 1, 9-17-2002)
25-12: LIMITS OF COMMON SERVICE GENERALLY:
No service connection shall be hereafter made for the purpose of supplying
through a common service, two (2) or more independent consumers occupying
premises held under the same ownership, unless such houses are on the same lot,
or the property is what is known as a court, campground, apartment house, or
building covering more than one lot, and then only provided the owner of such
premises shall agree in writing to pay all charges for water service thereto.
(Ord. Code § 3547.1)
25-13: COMMON SERVICE UNAUTHORIZED FOR PREMISES SEPARATELY OWNED:
No water shall be served to two (2) or more parcels of separately owned
property through a common service pipe. (Ord. Code § 3547)
25-13.1: CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR WATER DAMAGE:
The city shall not maintain or repair any water pipe from the meter or the
premises served, and the city shall in no case be liable for damages occasioned
by water running free from open or faulty fixtures or from broken or damaged
pipes. When city personnel are called by the consumer for turnon and/or turnoff
service, the consumer shall pay the city the actual cost of time spent for such
service performed as adopted by resolution of the council. (Ord. 1228 § A, 2-
17-1981)
25-13.2: CONSUMER RESPONSIBLE FOR EQUIPMENT RECEIVING WATER:
The consumer, at his own expense, shall furnish, install, and keep in repair,
free from leakage and in safe condition, all service pipes, fixtures,
stopcocks, and other apparatus and appliances, which may be required for
receiving and controlling water. The city shall not be responsible for any loss
or damage caused by the improper installation of such apparatus and appliances,
negligence, want of proper care, or wrongful act of the consumer, or any member
of his family, or any person in his employ. (Ord. 1228 § B, 2-17-1981)
DIVISION 3. WATER SERVICE RATES
25-14: USE OF METER REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
The service of all water to consumers shall be by measurement through a meter
and at rates prescribed in this article; provided, however, that for service
during construction or other temporary purposes, or where meter service may for
any reason be impracticable, a flat rate price to be agreed upon between the
public works director or designee and purchaser may be used instead of the
meter service. (Ord. 1537 § B82, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
25-15: RATES GENERALLY:
The regular water rates to be charged by the city for its water and to be
collected monthly by the finance department for the use and benefit of the city
shall be fixed by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 1537 § B83, 8-6-1996)
25-16: WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY; RATE:
Except as provided by section 25-16.2 of this article pertaining to water
connections outside city limits, the city council may, at its option and sole
discretion, elect to make available water services to inhabitants outside the
boundaries of the city and under such rules and regulations as the city council
may, at its discretion, determine, and discontinue such service at its option
and election; and at such rates and under such conditions as the city council
may elect; provided, however, that water consumers receiving such service
outside of the city shall be required to pay for such service at a service rate
fixed and established for such consumers. (Ord. 1537 § B84, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1564
§ 1, 12-1-1998)
25-16.1: RATES FOR INDEPENDENT WATER COMPANIES:
The city council may, by resolution, establish rates of independent water
companies owned by the city of Porterville. For the purpose of this section, an
"independent water company" is one that is not connected to the water
distribution operated by said city within its city limits. (Ord. 963 § A, 12-4-
1969)
25-16.2: APPROVAL FOR WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The city council shall have authority for approval of requests for water
service outside city limits, if applicant meets all other conditions as
required by this code and the annexation and municipal services policy, and all
other pertinent regulations. Consideration of said request shall be in
conjunction with approval of required city permits, Tulare LAFCo
extraterritorial service agreement, and payment of applicable fees. (Ord. 1830,
11-17-2015)
25-17: RESALE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
It is hereby made unlawful for any consumer or purchaser of city water to
furnish or resell water from his service to any other person or to any premises
not his own for remuneration without the approval of the city. (Ord. 1537 §
B85, 8-6-1996)
25-18: CITY COLLECTOR TO COLLECT WATER RATES; RECORDS; DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to collect all water rates and
receipts therefor, keeping an accurate record of such collections, and
depositing such collections daily for the benefit of the city. (Ord. 1537 §
B86, 8-6-1996)
25-19: DUE DATE OF PAYMENTS; PENALTY FOR DELINQUENT PAYMENT:
All utility bills shall be delinquent if they remain unpaid at five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. on the thirtieth day after their billing date and a charge of ten
percent (10%) as a penalty for said delinquency shall be made and added to the
amount of and become a part of said delinquent utility bill, and the service
for all utility bills which shall remain unpaid at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on
the sixtieth (60th) day after their billing date shall be subject to service
discontinuance, as described in this Article, and in accordance with applicable
State law and any applicable policies adopted by the City. (Ord. Code § 3526;
Ord. 846 § A, 11-16-1965; Ord. 964 § A, 1-1-1970; Ord. 1537 § B87, 8-6-1996;
Ord. 1869, 2-4-2020)
25-20: METHOD OF DELIVERY OF BILLS:
Rendering bills for water service, or the service, or the service of notice of
delinquency, or any other notice or communication regarding such service under
the provisions of this chapter may be made by personal delivery to the party to
be served, or by mail deposited to the party to be served, or by mail deposited
in the United States post office at Porterville, postage prepaid, addressed to
such party at his last known address, or as required by applicable law.
Service by mail shall be complete upon the expiration of two (2) days after the
deposit of such mail in post office as aforesaid. Failure of the addressee to
receive such bills or notices shall not excuse the addressee's obligation(s) as
set forth by this chapter. (Ord. Code § 3527; Ord. 1869, 2-4-2020)
25-21: SHUTOFF FOR NONPAYMENT; ADDITIONAL PAYMENT TO RECONNECT; DEPOSIT
REQUIRED FOR CONSUMERS:
Any delinquent water rate bills which remain unpaid at five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
on the sixtieth (60th) day after the billing date, shall be listed by the
finance department for shutoff and this shutoff list may be executed as soon as
the following working day. The shutoff shall be implemented in accordance with
any applicable policies adopted by the City Council, and as required by
applicable State law. The finance director, or designee, may proceed to make a
personal demand for payment on the delinquent consumer or person responsible
for the payment of the bill if he can be conveniently located; provided, that
the failure to make this personal demand shall in no case invalidate the
provisions of this article. If the consumer or responsible person does not, at
this time, make immediate payment, the finance director, or his designee, shall
shut off the water, and the water so shut off shall not be turned on until the
amount of the delinquent bill, with the accrued penalties and with an
additional sum as fixed by resolution of the city council for turning on and
off the service, shall be paid to the finance department.
A consumer's water service may be discontinued for the nonpayment of a bill for
water service rendered, provided, that the bill has not been paid by the
sixtieth (60th) day after the billing date. Such bill shall be deemed presented
to the consumer when delivered to him personally, when left at the property
served, or at his place of business, or when deposited in the United States
post office at Porterville, postage prepaid, addressed to the consumer's last
known address.
A consumer who has failed to pay his water bills in accordance with the
provisions of this article and whose service has been discontinued therefor,
shall be required to pay all accrued bills and penalties and may be required to
reestablish his credit by making a cash deposit with the city finance
department not to exceed twenty dollars ($20.00). (Ord. 1537 § B88, 8-6-1996;
Ord. 1614 § 1, 9-17-2002; Ord. 1869, 2-4-2020)
25-22: DISCONNECTION AT NEW LOCATION FOR NONPAYMENT AT OLD LOCATION:
A consumer's water service may be discontinued for the nonpayment of a bill for
water service of the same class rendered to him at a previous location by the
city; provided, that such bill is not paid within thirty (30) days after
presentation at the new location. (Ord. Code § 3528.1)
25-23: WRITTEN DEMAND FOR CHANGE IN SERVICE REQUIRED:
The consumer or owner shall notify the city finance department in writing of
any changes in the service desired, or if they want the water turned off or on.
In cases of the failure of the owner or consumer to give such notice in
writing, the full amount of water consumed, as shown by the meter shall be
charged, or in case no consumption is shown by the meter or the consumption
shall be less than one thousand (1,000) cubic feet, the monthly minimum water
rate as specified in this division shall be charged and collected monthly.
(Ord. 1537 § B89, 8-6-1996)
25-24: COLLECTION OF UNPAID WATER BILL BY SUIT:
The city may sue in any court of competent jurisdiction, any person from whom
any unpaid bill for water service is delinquent, for the amount of such
delinquent bill for water service together with all penalties and reasonable
costs of collection. (Ord. Code § 3530)
DIVISION 4. METERS, STOPCOCKS AND HYDRANTS
25-25: TWO STOPCOCKS TO BE PLACED IN EACH CONNECTION:
There shall be a stopcock in every connection at a point designated by the city
engineer. Such stopcock and the box containing the same shall be furnished by
the city and shall be for its exclusive use and under its exclusive control.
The city shall not be responsible for damage to any building or its contents
from any break beyond the service box and the water consumers are hereby
required for their own protection, to provide, at their own expense, another
stopcock or valve to be placed at the first suitable joint outside the meter
box beyond the stop or service of the city. (Ord. 1537 § B90, 8-6-1996)
25-26: TESTING AND ADJUSTMENTS TO METERS:
Any consumer may demand that the meter through which water is being furnished,
be examined and tested by the water division for the purpose of ascertaining
whether or not it is correctly registering the amount of water which is
delivered through it. Such demand shall be in writing, filed with the water
division and shall be accompanied by a fee which shall be fixed by a resolution
of the city council. Upon receipt of such written demand and the fee, it shall
be the duty of the water division to cause the meter to be examined and tested,
and for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not it is correctly registering
the water being delivered through it. If on such examination and test, the
meter shall be found to register over three percent (3%) more water than
actually passes through it, another meter shall be substituted therefor, at no
cost to the consumer, and the water bill for the current period adjusted in
such manner as the administrative services director, or designee, may deem fair
and just. If the meter be found on test to register not over three percent (3%)
of the actual water passing therethrough, the water bills shall be paid as
rendered. (Ord. 1537 § B91, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 1, 9-17-2002)
25-27: OBSTRUCTION OF STOPCOCKS AND HYDRANTS GENERALLY:
No person shall place on or about any hydrant or stopcock connecting with the
pipes of the waterworks of the city any building material or other obstruction
as to prevent the free access to the same. (Ord. Code § 3553)
DIVISION 5. EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS GENERALLY
25-28: SIZE AND SPECIFICATIONS GENERALLY:
   A.   Water Mains: All city water mains hereafter installed shall have a
minimum inside diameter of six inches (6") and shall be of polyvinyl chloride
(PVC) or ductile iron, American Water Works Association, classifications or
specifications, class 150 or equal. Effective July 1, 1986, asbestos cement
pipe will no longer be considered acceptable.
   B.   Fittings And Valves: All fittings and valves shall be American Water
Works Association specifications, class 150 ductile iron or equal. All fire
hydrants shall be American Water Works Association specifications and type to
be installed shall be approved by the city engineer and the chief of the fire
department. (Ord. 623 § 1; Ord. 1352 § A, 6-3-1986)
25-29: ESTIMATE OF COST; APPLICATION ACCOMPANIED BY DEPOSIT OF AMOUNT OF
ESTIMATE:
Any application for the extension or installation of water mains shall be
accompanied by a deposit of money equal to the estimate of the public works
director or designee for the cost of actual demand size, plus fittings, valves
and fire hydrants. Should the actual cost for the installation of the water
line be less than the estimate, the applicant will be refunded the difference
between the actual cost and the estimated cost. Should the actual cost be
greater than the estimate, the applicant must deposit the additional money
between the actual cost and the estimated cost and no water service shall be
furnished through or by means of the installed line until the additional money
has been deposited.
The city council hereby declares it to be its intention that the full cost and
expense of actual demand size together with all fittings, valves and fire
hydrants be paid by and borne by the applicant. (Ord. 623 § 2; Ord. 1438, 8-21-
1990; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
25-30: DEVELOPER CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES:
Whenever a developer is required, as a condition of approval of a development
permit, to construct a public facility described in a resolution adopted
pursuant to this section, and when such construction is necessary to ensure
efficient and timely construction of the facilities network, a reimbursement
agreement with the developer shall be offered. The reimbursement amount shall
not exceed the actual cost of the construction of the facility by the
developer. In the event the actual construction cost of the facility exceeds
the fee required of the development project, the city shall enter into a
reimbursement agreement for the cost in excess of the fee required for the
project, to be paid from the special account established pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
25-31: COST TO INCLUDE COST OF EXCAVATION, BACKFILL, FITTINGS, ETC.:
The cost of water mains shall include the cost of all pipes, excavations,
backfill, replacement of pavement, block work, safety precautions, valve
connections, fittings and fire hydrants cost together with all pipe valve
fittings in connection therewith. (Ord. 623 § 4)
25-32: MAINS, FITTINGS, ETC., TO REMAIN PROPERTY OF CITY:
All city mains, valves, fittings and fire hydrants constructed or installed in
connection with the aforesaid plan shall be and remain the exclusive property
of the city. (Ord. 623 § 5)
25-32.1: CONNECTION NOT MADE UNTIL PRORATED CHARGE PAID:
In no event shall any owner of property benefited by the water line constructed
pursuant to this division, or other person in possession or control of such
real property, be permitted to connect thereto without first paying, or by
written agreement arranging to pay, the prorated charges placed against the
property by the city manager. The council may, by resolution, establish
provisions whereby property owners may pay water connection fees in
installments over a period of time not to exceed three (3) years. (Ord. 901 §
B, 4-16-1968)
25-32.2: CONSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS AND FINANCING THEREOF:
   A.   The city may install fire hydrants into all areas within the city and
areas subsequently annexed into the city which are not yet served by same as
rapidly as funds are available and budgeted therefor by the city council.
   B.   In the event that a private individual installs fire hydrants in
advance of the time the city is able to do so, the city may enter into an
agreement with such individual under the terms of which the city will reimburse
him for that portion of the total cost of the fire hydrant installation over
and above the cost applicable to his premises; provided, however, that the
source of funds for such reimbursement shall be the fire hydrant installation
charges collected from other users of the hydrant and provided that such an
agreement shall terminate within ten (10) years from the date thereof; and,
provided further, that the cost returned shall not exceed the actual cost to
the individual nor the then current costs for similar quantities of work
performed by the city, whichever is smaller. (Ord. 1135 § C, 3-21-1978)
25-32.3: ACREAGE FEE:
   A.   Purpose: In order to implement the goals and objectives of the water
system master plan of the city, and to provide needed water facilities for new
development in the planning area, certain public water facilities must be
constructed. The city council has determined that a development impact fee is
needed in order to finance these public improvements and to pay for the
development's fair share of the construction costs of these improvements. In
establishing the fee described in the following subsections, the city council
has found the fee to be consistent with its general plan and, pursuant to
Government Code section 65913.2, has considered the effects of the fee with
respect to the city's housing needs as established in the housing element of
the general plan.
   B.   Established: An acreage fee is hereby established upon issuance of
certificate of occupancy for development in the city, or upon connection to the
city water system to pay for water system improvements. The city council shall,
in a council resolution, set forth the specific amount of the fee, describe the
benefit and impact area on which the development fee is imposed, list the
specific public improvements to be financed, describe the estimated cost of
these facilities, describe the reasonable relationships between this fee and
the various types of new development and set forth time for payment. As
described in the fee resolution, this development fee shall be paid by each
developer upon issuance of certificate of occupancy or connection to the water
system. On an annual basis, this fee shall be adjusted by the public works
director department in accordance with the "Engineering News Record
Construction Cost Index" publication.
   C.   Limited Use Of Fees: The revenues raised by payment of this fee shall
be placed in a separate and special account and such revenues, along with any
interest earnings on that account, shall be used solely to:
      1.   Pay for the city's future construction of water facilities described
in the resolution enacted with this section, or to reimburse the city for those
described or listed facilities constructed by the city with funds advanced by
the city from other sources; or
      2.   Reimburse developers who have been required or permitted as set
forth below, to install such listed facilities which are oversized with
supplemental size, length, or capacity. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
25-32.4: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water service connection shall be installed or maintained on the premises of
any consumer unless the city water supply is protected from contamination in
accordance with the city council resolution on standards for backflow
prevention. (Ord. 1237 § A, 5-19-1981)
DIVISION 6. WATER CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY
25-32A.1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The city of Porterville has found:
      1.   That the waters of the Tule Subbasin are of limited supply and are
subject to ever increasing demands;
      2.   That the continuation of Porterville's economic prosperity is
dependent on the availability of adequate supplies of water for future uses;
      3.   That it is the policy of the city of Porterville to promote the
conservation and efficient use of water and to prevent the waste of this
valuable resource;
      4.   That landscapes are essential to the quality of life in Porterville
by providing areas for active and passive recreation and as an enhancement to
the environment by cleaning air and water, preventing erosion, offering fire
protection, and replacing ecosystems lost to development;
      5.   That landscape design, installation, maintenance and management can,
and should be, water efficient; and
      6.   That section 2 of article X of the California constitution specifies
that the right to use water is limited to the amount reasonably required for
the beneficial use to be served and the right does not, and shall not, extend
to waste or unreasonable method of use.
   B.   Consistent with these legislative findings, the purpose of this
division is to:
      1.   Promote the values and benefits of landscaping practices that
integrate and go beyond the conservation and efficient use of water;
      2.   Establish a structure for planning, designing, installing,
maintaining and managing water efficient landscapes in new construction and
rehabilitated projects through a watershed approach that requires cross sector
collaboration of industry, government and property owners to achieve the many
benefits possible;
      3.   Establish provisions for water management practices and water waste
prevention for existing landscapes;
      4.   Use water efficiently without waste by setting a maximum applied
water allowance as an upper limit for water use and reduce water use to the
lowest practical amount; and
      5.   Establish economic incentives that promote the efficient use of
water, such as implementing a tiered rate structure.
   C.   Landscapes that are planned, designed, installed, managed and
maintained with the watershed based approach can improve California's and
Porterville's environmental conditions and provide benefits and realize
sustainability goals. Such landscapes will make the urban environment resilient
in the face of climatic extremes. Consistent with the legislative findings and
purpose of this division, conditions in the urban setting will be improved by:
      1.   Creating the conditions to support life in the soil by reducing
compaction, incorporating organic matter that increases water retention, and
promoting productive plant growth that leads to more carbon storage, oxygen
production, shade, habitat and aesthetic benefits;
      2.   Minimizing energy use by reducing irrigation water requirements,
reducing reliance on petroleum based fertilizers and pesticides, and planting
climate appropriate shade trees in urban areas;
      3.   Conserving water by capturing and reusing rainwater and gray water
wherever possible and selecting climate appropriate plants that need minimal
supplemental water after establishment;
      4.   Protecting air and water quality by reducing power equipment use and
landfill disposal trips, selecting recycled and locally sourced materials, and
using compost, mulch and efficient irrigation equipment to prevent erosion;
      5.   Protecting existing habitat and creating new habitat by choosing
local native plants, climate adapted nonnatives and avoiding invasive plants;
and
      6.   Utilizing integrated pest management with least toxic methods as the
first course of action. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This division shall apply to all of the following landscape projects:
      1.   New development projects with an aggregate landscape area equal to
or greater than five hundred (500) square feet requiring a building or
landscape permit, plan check or design review;
      2.   Rehabilitated landscape projects with an aggregate landscape area
equal to or greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet
requiring a building or landscape permit, plan check, or design review;
      3.   Existing landscapes limited to sections
25-32A.20 and
25-32A.21 of this article; and
      4.   Cemeteries; recognizing the special landscape management needs of
cemeteries, new and rehabilitated cemeteries are limited to sections
25-32A.6,
25-32A.13 and
25-32A.14 of this article; and existing cemeteries are limited to sections
25-32A.20 and
25-32A.21 of this article; and
      5.   All new commercial and/or industrial developments requiring building
permits where the landscape area will be modified or rehabilitated.
   B.   Any project with an aggregate landscape area of two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet or less may comply with the performance
requirements of this division or conform to the prescriptive measures contained
in section
25-32A.23 of this article.
   C.   For projects using treated or untreated gray water or rainwater
captured on site, any lot or parcel within the project that has less than two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of landscape and meets the lot's or
parcel's landscape water requirement (estimated total water use) entirely with
treated or untreated gray water or through stored rainwater captured on site is
subject only to subsection
25-32A.23B5 of this article.
   D.   This division does not apply to:
      1.   Registered local, state or federal historical sites;
      2.   Ecological restoration projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system;
      3.   Mined land reclamation projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system; or
      4.   Existing plant collections, as part of botanical gardens and
arboretums open to the public.
   E.   This division further applies to all properties within the city limits
of the city of Porterville, as well as any property beyond the limits of the
city of Porterville but that receives municipal water service from the city.
(Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.3: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this division have the meaning set forth below:
   APPLIED WATER: The portion of water supplied by the irrigation system to the
landscape.
   AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION CONTROLLER: An automatic timing device used to remotely
control valves that operate an irrigation system. Automatic irrigation
controllers are able to self-adjust and schedule irrigation events using either
evapotranspiration (weather based) or soil moisture data.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A safety device used to prevent pollution or
contamination of the water supply due to the reverse flow of water from the
irrigation system.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION: The document required under section 25-32A.11 of
this article.
   CERTIFIED IRRIGATION DESIGNER: A person certified to design irrigation
systems by an accredited academic institution, a professional trade
organization or other program such as the U.S. environmental protection
agency's WaterSense irrigation designer certification program and Irrigation
Association's certified irrigation designer program.
   CERTIFIED LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION AUDITOR: A person certified to perform
landscape irrigation audits by an accredited academic institution, a
professional trade organization or other program such as the U.S. environmental
protection agency's WaterSense irrigation auditor certification program and
Irrigation Association's certified landscape irrigation auditor program.
   CHECK VALVE OR ANTIDRAIN VALVE: A valve located under a sprinkler head, or
other location in the irrigation system, to hold water in the system to prevent
drainage from sprinkler heads when the sprinkler is off.
   COMMON INTEREST DEVELOPMENTS: Community apartment projects, condominium
projects, planned developments, and stock cooperatives per Civil Code section
1351.
   COMPOST: The safe and stable product of controlled biologic decomposition of
organic materials that is beneficial to plant growth.
   CONVERSION FACTOR (0.62): The number that converts acre-inches per acre per
year to gallons per square foot per year.
   DISTRIBUTION UNIFORMITY: The measure of the uniformity of irrigation water
over a defined area.
   DRIP IRRIGATION: Any nonspray low volume irrigation system utilizing
emission devices with a flow rate measured in gallons per hour. Low volume
irrigation systems are specifically designed to apply small volumes of water
slowly at or near the root zone of plants.
   ET ADJUSTMENT FACTOR (ETAF): A factor of 0.55 for residential areas and 0.45
for nonresidential areas that, when applied to reference evapotranspiration,
adjusts for plant factors and irrigation efficiency, two (2) major influences
upon the amount of water that needs to be applied to the landscape. The ETAF
for new and existing (nonrehabilitated) special landscape areas shall not
exceed 1.0. The ETAF for existing nonrehabilitated landscapes is 0.8.
   ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION PROJECT: A project where the site is intentionally
altered to establish a defined, indigenous, historic ecosystem.
   EFFECTIVE PRECIPITATION OR USABLE RAINFALL (Eppt): The portion of total
precipitation which becomes available for plant growth.
   EMITTER: A drip irrigation emission device that delivers water slowly from
the system to the soil.
   ESTABLISHED LANDSCAPE: The point at which plants in the landscape have
developed significant root growth into the soil. Typically, most plants are
established after one or two (2) years of growth.
   ESTABLISHMENT PERIOD OF THE PLANTS: The first year after installing the
plant in the landscape or the first two (2) years if irrigation will be
terminated after establishment. Typically, most plants are established after
one or two (2) years of growth. Native habitat mitigation areas and trees may
need three (3) to five (5) years for establishment.
   ESTIMATED TOTAL WATER USE (ETWU): The total water used for the landscape as
described in section
25-32A.6 of this article.
   EVAPOTRANSPIRATION RATE: The quantity of water evaporated from adjacent soil
and other surfaces and transpired by plants during a specified time.
   FLOW RATE: The rate at which water flows through pipes, valves and emission
devices, measured in gallons per minute, gallons per hour, or cubic feet per
second.
   FLOW SENSOR: An in-line device installed at the supply point of the
irrigation system that produces a repeatable signal proportional to flow rate.
Flow sensors must be connected to an automatic irrigation controller, or flow
monitor capable of receiving flow signals and operating master valves. This
combination flow sensor/controller may also function as a landscape water meter
or submeter.
   FRIABLE: A soil condition that is easily crumbled or loosely compacted down
to a minimum depth per planting material requirements, whereby the root
structure of newly planted material will be allowed to spread unimpeded.
   FUEL MODIFICATION PLAN GUIDELINE: Guidelines from a local fire authority to
assist residents and businesses that are developing land or building structures
in a fire hazard severity zone.
   GRAY WATER: Untreated wastewater that has not been contaminated by any
toilet discharge, has not been affected by infectious, contaminated, or
unhealthy bodily wastes, and does not present a threat from contamination by
unhealthful processing, manufacturing, or operating wastes. "Gray water"
includes, but is not limited to, wastewater from bathtubs, showers, bathroom
washbasins, clothes washing machines, and laundry tubs, but does not include
wastewater from kitchen sinks or dishwashers. Health And Safety Code section
17922.12.
   HARDSCAPES: Any durable material (pervious and nonpervious).
   HYDROZONE: A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water
needs and rooting depth. A hydrozone may be irrigated or nonirrigated.
   INFILTRATION RATE: The rate of water entry into the soil expressed as a
depth of water per unit of time (e.g., inches per hour).
   INVASIVE PLANT SPECIES: Species of plants not historically found in
California that spread outside cultivated areas and can damage environmental or
economic resources. Invasive species may be regulated by county agricultural
agencies as noxious species. Lists of invasive plants are maintained at the
California invasive plant inventory and USDA invasive and noxious weeds
database.
   IRRIGATION AUDIT: An in depth evaluation of the performance of an irrigation
system conducted by a certified landscape irrigation auditor. An irrigation
audit includes, but is not limited to: inspection, system tune up, system test
with distribution uniformity or emission uniformity, reporting overspray or
runoff that causes overland flow, and preparation of an irrigation schedule.
The audit must be conducted in a manner consistent with the Irrigation
Association's landscape irrigation auditor certification program or other U.S.
environmental protection agency "WaterSense" labeled auditing program.
   IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY (IE): The measurement of the amount of water
beneficially used divided by the amount of water applied. Irrigation efficiency
is derived from measurements and estimates of irrigation system characteristics
and management practices. The irrigation efficiency for purposes of this
division are 0.75 for overhead spray devices and 0.81 for drip systems.
   IRRIGATION SURVEY: An evaluation of an irrigation system that is less
detailed than an irrigation audit. An irrigation survey includes, but is not
limited to: inspection, system test, and written recommendations to improve
performance of the irrigation system.
   IRRIGATION WATER USE ANALYSIS: A review of water use data based on meter
readings and billing data.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT: A person who holds a license to practice landscape
architecture in the state of California Business And Professions Code, section
5615.
   LANDSCAPE AREA: All the planting areas, turf areas, and water features in a
landscape design plan subject to the maximum applied water allowance
calculation. The landscape area does not include footprints of buildings or
structures, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, decks, patios, gravel or stone
walks, other pervious or nonpervious hardscapes, and other nonirrigated areas
designated for nondevelopment (e.g., open spaces and existing native
vegetation).
   LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR: A person licensed by the state of California to
construct, maintain, repair, install, or subcontract the development of
landscape systems.
   LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE: The documents required under section
25-32A.5 of this article.
   LANDSCAPE PROJECT: Total area of landscape in a project as defined in
"landscape area" for the purposes of this division, meeting requirements under
section
25-32A.2 of this article.
   LANDSCAPE WATER METER: An in-line device installed at the irrigation supply
point that measures the flow of water into the irrigation system and is
connected to a totalizer to record water use.
   LATERAL LINE: The water delivery pipeline that supplies water to the
emitters or sprinklers from the valve.
   LOCAL AGENCY: The city of Porterville. The city of Porterville is
responsible for the enforcement of this division including, but not limited to,
approval of a permit and plan check or design review of a project.
   LOCAL WATER PURVEYOR: Any entity, including a public agency, city, county,
or private water company that provides retail water service.
   LOW VOLUME IRRIGATION: The application of irrigation water at low pressure
through a system of tubing or lateral lines and low volume emitters such as
drip, drip lines, and bubblers. Low volume irrigation systems are specifically
designed to apply small volumes of water slowly at or near the root zone of
plants.
   MAIN LINE: The pressurized pipeline that delivers water from the water
source to the valve or outlet.
   MASTER SHUTOFF VALVE: An automatic valve installed at the irrigation supply
point which controls water flow into the irrigation system. When this valve is
closed water will not be supplied to the irrigation system. A master valve will
greatly reduce any water loss due to a leaky station valve.
   MAXIMUM APPLIED WATER ALLOWANCE (MAWA): The upper limit of annual applied
water for the established landscaped area as specified in section 25-32A.6 of
this article. It is based upon the area's reference evapotranspiration, the ET
adjustment factor, and the size of the landscape area. The estimated total
water use shall not exceed the maximum applied water allowance. Special
landscape areas, including recreation areas, areas permanently and solely
dedicated to edible plants such as orchards and vegetable gardens, and areas
irrigated with recycled water are subject to the MAWA with an ETAF not to
exceed 1.0. MAWA = (ETo)(0.62) [(ETAF x LA) + ((1-ETAF) x SLA)].
   MEDIAN: An area between opposing lanes of traffic that may be unplanted or
planted with trees, shrubs, perennials, and ornamental grasses.
   MICROCLIMATE: The climate of a small, specific area that may contrast with
the climate of the overall landscape area due to factors such as wind, sun
exposure, plant density, or proximity to reflective surfaces.
   MINED LAND RECLAMATION PROJECTS: Any surface mining operation with a
reclamation plan approved in accordance with the surface mining and reclamation
act of 1975.
   MULCH: Any organic material such as leaves, bark, straw, compost, or
inorganic mineral materials such as rocks, gravel, and/or decomposed granite
left loose and applied to the soil surface for the beneficial purposes of
reducing evaporation, suppressing weeds, moderating soil temperature, and
preventing soil erosion.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of this division, a new building with a
landscape or other new landscape, such as a park, playground, or greenbelt
without an associated building.
   NONRESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE: Landscapes in commercial, institutional,
industrial and public settings that may have areas designated for recreation or
public assembly. It also includes portions of common areas of common interest
developments with designated recreational areas.
   OPERATING PRESSURE: The pressure at which the parts of an irrigation system
are designed by the manufacturer to operate.
   OVERHEAD SPRINKLER IRRIGATION SYSTEMS: Systems that deliver water through
the air (e.g., spray heads and rotors).
   OVERSPRAY: The irrigation water which is delivered beyond the target area.
   PERMIT: An authorizing document issued by local agencies for new
construction or rehabilitated landscapes.
   PERVIOUS: Any surface or material that allows the passage of water through
the material and into the underlying soil.
   PLANT FACTOR OR PLANT WATER USE FACTOR: A factor, when multiplied by ETo,
estimates the amount of water needed by plants. For purposes of this division,
the plant factor range for very low water use plants is 0 to 0.1, the plant
factor range for low water use plants is 0.1 to 0.3, the plant factor range for
moderate water use plants is 0.4 to 0.6, and the plant factor range for high
water use plants is 0.7 to 1.0. Plant factors cited in this division are
derived from the publication "Water Use Classification Of Landscape Species".
Plant factors may also be obtained from horticultural researchers from academic
institutions or professional associations as approved by the California
department of water resources (DWR).
   PROJECT APPLICANT: The individual or entity submitting a landscape
documentation package required under section
25-32A.5 of this article to request a permit, plan check, or design review from
the local agency. A project applicant may be the property owner or his or her
designee.
   RAIN SENSOR OR RAIN SENSING SHUTOFF DEVICE: A component which automatically
suspends an irrigation event when it rains.
   RECORD DRAWING OR AS BUILTS: A set of reproducible drawings which show
significant changes in the work made during construction and which are usually
based on drawings marked up in the field and other data furnished by the
contractor.
   RECREATIONAL AREA: Areas, excluding private single-family residential areas,
designated for active play, recreation or public assembly in parks, sports
fields, picnic grounds, amphitheaters or golf course tees, fairways, roughs,
surrounds and greens.
   RECYCLED WATER, RECLAIMED WATER, OR TREATED SEWAGE EFFLUENT WATER: Treated
or recycled wastewater of a quality suitable for nonpotable uses such as
landscape irrigation and water features. This water is not intended for human
consumption.
   REFERENCE EVAPOTRANSPIRATION OR ETo: A standard measurement of environmental
parameters which affect the water use of plants. ETo is expressed in inches per
day, month, or year as represented in section
25-32A.6 of this article, and is an estimate of the evapotranspiration of a
large field of four (4) to seven inch (7") tall, cool season grass that is well
watered. Reference evapotranspiration is used as the basis of determining the
maximum applied water allowance so that regional differences in climate can be
accommodated.
   REGIONAL WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE: A local ordinance adopted by
two (2) or more local agencies, water suppliers and other stakeholders for
implementing a consistent set of landscape provisions throughout a geographical
region. Regional ordinances are strongly encouraged to provide a consistent
framework for the landscape industry and applicants to adhere to.
   REHABILITATED LANDSCAPE: Any relandscaping project that requires a permit,
plan check, or design review, meets the requirements of section
25-32A.2 of this article, and the modified landscape area is equal to, or
greater than, two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
   RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE: Landscapes surrounding single- or multi- family
homes.
   RUNOFF: Water which is not absorbed by the soil or landscape to which it is
applied and flows from the landscape area. For example, runoff may result from
water that is applied at too great a rate (application rate exceeds
infiltration rate) or when there is a slope.
   SOIL MOISTURE SENSING DEVICE OR SOIL MOISTURE SENSOR: A device that measures
the amount of water in the soil. The device may also suspend or initiate an
irrigation event.
   SOIL TEXTURE: The classification of soil based on its percentage of sand,
silt, and clay.
   SPECIAL LANDSCAPE AREA (SLA): An area of the landscape dedicated solely to
edible plants, recreational areas, areas irrigated with recycled water, or
water features using recycled water.
   SPRINKLER HEAD: A device which delivers water through a nozzle.
   STATIC WATER PRESSURE: The pipeline or municipal water supply pressure when
water is not flowing.
   STATION: An area served by one valve or by a set of valves that operate
simultaneously.
   SUBMETER: A metering device to measure water applied to the landscape that
is installed after the primary utility water meter.
   SWING JOINT: An irrigation component that provides a flexible, leak free
connection between the emission device and lateral pipeline to allow movement
in any direction and to prevent equipment damage.
   TURF: A ground cover surface of mowed grass. Annual bluegrass, Kentucky
bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, red fescue, and tall fescue are cool season
grasses. Bermuda grass, kikuyu grass, seashore paspalum, St. Augustine grass,
zoysia grass, and buffalo grass are warm season grasses.
   VALVE: A device used to control the flow of water in the irrigation system.
   WUCOLS: The "Water Use Classification Of Landscape Species" published by the
University Of California cooperative extension, and the department of water
resources, 2014.
   WATER CONSERVING PLANT SPECIES: A plant species identified as having a very
low or low plant factor.
   WATER FEATURE: A design element where open water performs an aesthetic or
recreational function. Water features include ponds, lakes, waterfalls,
fountains, artificial streams, spas, and swimming pools (where water is
artificially supplied). The surface area of water features is included in the
high water use hydrozone of the landscape area. Constructed wetlands used for
on site wastewater treatment or stormwater best management practices that are
not irrigated and used solely for water treatment or stormwater retention are
not water features and, therefore, are not subject to the water budget
calculation.
   WATERING WINDOW: The time of day irrigation is allowed. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-
2015)
25-32A.4: COMPLIANCE WITH LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE:
   A.   Prior to construction, the zoning administrator or his designee shall:
      1.   Provide the project applicant with the ordinance and procedures for
permits, plan checks, or design reviews;
      2.   Review the landscape documentation package submitted by the project
applicant;
      3.   Approve or deny the landscape documentation package;
      4.   Issue a permit or approve the plan check or design review for the
project applicant; and
      5.   Upon approval of the landscape documentation package, retain a copy
of the water efficient landscape worksheet for use in reporting as may be
required.
   B.   Prior to construction, the project applicant shall:
      1.   Submit a landscape documentation package to the city prior to, or as
a part of, the building permit submittal package.
   C.   Upon approval of the landscape documentation package by the zoning
administrator, the project applicant shall:
      1.   Receive a permit or approval of the plan check or design review and
record the date of the permit in the certificate of completion; and
      2.   Submit a copy of the approved landscape documentation package along
with the record drawings, and any other information to the property owner or
his/her designee. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.5: ELEMENTS OF THE LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE:
   A.   The landscape documentation package shall include the following six (6)
elements:
      1.   Project information:
         a.   Date;
         b.   Project applicant;
         c.   Project address (if available, parcel and/or lot number(s));
         d.   Total landscape area (square feet);
         e.   Project type (e.g., new, rehabilitated, public, private,
cemetery, homeowner installed);
         f.   Water supply type (e.g., potable, recycled, well) and identify
the local retail water purveyor if the service is other than city of
Porterville;
         g.   Checklist of all documents in landscape documentation package;
         h.   Project contacts to include contact information for the project
applicant and property owner;
         i.   Applicant signature and date with statement,
I agree to comply with the requirements of the water efficient landscape
ordinance and submit a complete Landscape Documentation Package.
      2.   Water efficient landscape worksheet:
         a.   Water budget calculations:
            (1)   Maximum applied water allowance (MAWA);
            (2)   Estimated total water use (ETWU).
      3.   Soil management report;
      4.   Landscape design plan;
      5.   Irrigation design plan; and
      6.   Grading design plan. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.6: WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE WORKSHEET:
   A.   A project applicant shall complete the water efficient landscape
worksheet which contains information on the plant factor, irrigation method,
irrigation efficiency, and area associated with each hydrozone. Calculations
are then made to show that the evapotranspiration adjustment factor (ETAF) for
the landscape project does not exceed a factor of 0.55 for residential areas
and 0.45 for nonresidential areas, exclusive of special landscape areas. The
ETAF for a landscape project is based on the plant factors and irrigation
methods selected. The maximum applied water allowance is calculated based on
the maximum ETAF allowed (0.55 for residential areas and 0.45 for
nonresidential areas) and expressed as annual gallons required. The estimated
total water use (ETWU) is calculated based on the plants used and irrigation
method selected for the landscape design. ETWU must be below the MAWA.
      1.   In calculating the maximum applied water allowance and estimated
total water use, a project applicant shall use the ETo values listed below, as
excerpted from the reference evapotranspiration table in appendix A of the
state model water efficiency landscape ordinance, 2015.
 
            Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Annual ETo
Porterville 1.2 1.8 3.4 4.7 6.6 7.7 8.5 7.3 5.3 3.4 1.4 0.7 52.0
 
   B.   Water budget calculations shall adhere to the following requirements:
      1.   The plant factor used shall be from WUCOLS or from horticultural
researchers with academic institutions or professional associations as approved
by the California department of water resources (DWR). The plant factor ranges
from 0 to 0.1 for very low water using plants, 0.1 to 0.3 for low water use
plants, from 0.4 to 0.6 for moderate water use plants, and from 0.7 to 1.0 for
high water use plants.
      2.   All water features shall be included in the high water use hydrozone
and temporarily irrigated areas shall be included in the low water use
hydrozone.
      3.   All special landscape areas shall be identified and their water use
calculated as shown in the water efficient landscape worksheet.
      4.   ETAF for new and existing (nonrehabilitated) special landscape areas
shall not exceed 1.0. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.7: SOIL MANAGEMENT REPORT:
   A.   In order to reduce runoff and encourage healthy plant growth, a soil
management report shall be completed by the project applicant, or his/her
designee, as follows:
      1.   Submit soil samples to a laboratory for analysis and
recommendations.
         a.   Soil sampling shall be conducted in accordance with laboratory
protocol, including protocols regarding adequate sampling depth for the
intended plants.
         b.   The soil analysis shall include:
            (1)   Soil texture;
            (2)   Infiltration rate determined by laboratory test or soil
texture infiltration rate table;
            (3)   pH;
            (4)   Total soluble salts;
            (5)   Sodium;
            (6)   Percent organic matter; and
            (7)   Recommendations.
         c.   In projects with multiple landscape installations (i.e.,
production home developments) a soil sampling rate of one in seven (7) lots or
approximately fifteen percent (15%) will satisfy this requirement. Large
landscape projects shall sample at a rate equivalent to one in seven (7) lots.
      2.   The project applicant, or his/her designee, shall comply with one of
the following:
         a.   If significant mass grading is not planned, the soil analysis
report shall be submitted to the zoning administrator as part of the landscape
documentation package; or
         b.   If significant mass grading is planned, the soil analysis report
shall be submitted to the zoning administrator as part of the certificate of
completion.
      3.   The soil analysis report shall be made available, in a timely
manner, to the professionals preparing the landscape design plans and
irrigation design plans to make any necessary adjustments to the design plans.
      4.   The project applicant, or his/her designee, shall submit
documentation verifying implementation of soil analysis report recommendations
to the zoning administrator with certificate of completion. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-
2015)
25-32A.8: LANDSCAPE DESIGN PLAN:
   A.   For the efficient use of water, a landscape shall be carefully designed
and planned for the intended function of the project. A landscape design plan
meeting the following design criteria shall be submitted as part of the
landscape documentation package:
      1.   Plant Material:
         a.   Any plant may be selected for the landscape providing the
estimated total water use in the landscape area does not exceed the maximum
applied water allowance. Methods to achieve water efficiency shall include one
or more of the following:
            (1)   Protection and preservation of native species and natural
vegetation;
            (2)   Selection of water conserving plant, tree and turf species,
especially local native plants;
            (3)   Selection of plants based on local climate suitability,
disease and pest resistance;
            (4)   Selection of trees based on applicable local tree ordinances
or tree shading guidelines, and size at maturity as appropriate for the
planting area; and
            (5)   Selection of plants from local and regional landscape program
plant lists.
         b.   Each hydrozone shall have plant materials with similar water use,
with the exception of hydrozones with plants of mixed water use, as specified
in subsection
25-32A.9A2d of this article.
         c.   Plants shall be selected and planted appropriately based upon
their adaptability to the climatic, geologic, and topographical conditions of
the project site. Methods to achieve water efficiency shall include one or more
of the following:
            (1)   Use the sunset western climate zone system which takes into
account temperature, humidity, elevation, terrain, latitude, and varying
degrees of continental and marine influence on local climate;
            (2)   Recognize the horticultural attributes of plants (i.e.,
mature plant size, invasive surface roots) to minimize damage to property or
infrastructure (e.g., buildings, sidewalks, power lines); allow for adequate
soil volume for healthy root growth; and
            (3)   Consider the solar orientation for plant placement to
maximize summer shade and winter solar gain.
         d.   Turf is not allowed on slopes greater than twenty five percent
(25%) where the toe of the slope is adjacent to an impermeable hardscape and
where twenty five percent (25%) means one foot (1') of vertical elevation
change for every four feet (4') of horizontal length (rise divided by run x 100
= slope percent).
         e.   High water use plants, characterized by a plant factor of 0.7 to
1.0, are prohibited in street medians.
         f.   The use of invasive plant species, such as those listed by the
California invasive plant council, is strongly discouraged.
         g.   The architectural guidelines of a common interest development,
which includes community apartment projects, condominiums, planned
developments, and stock cooperatives, shall not prohibit or include conditions
that have the effect of prohibiting the use of low water use plants as a group.
         h.   Natural turf is prohibited in commercial and industrial zone
districts. However, when the city council finds that a logical and
substantiated need exists for natural turf, e.g., for uses such as daycare
centers or commercial recreation facilities, a conditional use permit may be
approved with conditions specifying the reason natural grass is deemed
necessary by the applicant, the allowed area of turf, and that all other water
conservation requirements of this code are applied, regardless of the total
landscape area.
         i.   Warm season grasses are the only approved natural turf for new
installations.
      2.   Water Features:
         a.   Recirculating water systems shall be used for water features.
         b.   Where available, recycled water shall be used as a source for
decorative water features.
         c.   Surface area of a water feature shall be included in the high
water use hydrozone area of the water budget calculation.
         d.   Pool and spa covers are highly recommended.
      3.   Soil Preparation, Mulch And Amendments:
         a.   Prior to the planting of any materials, compacted soils shall be
transformed to a friable condition. On engineered slopes, only amended planting
holes need meet this requirement.
         b.   Soil amendments shall be incorporated according to
recommendations of the soil report and what is appropriate for the plants
selected (see section
25-32A.7 of this article).
         c.   For landscape installations, compost at a rate of a minimum of
four (4) cubic yards per one thousand (1,000) square feet of permeable area
shall be incorporated to a depth of six inches (6") into the soil. Soils with
greater than six percent (6%) organic matter in the top six inches (6") of soil
are exempt from adding compost and tilling.
         d.   A minimum three inch (3") layer of mulch shall be applied on all
exposed soil surfaces of planting areas except in turf areas, creeping or
rooting ground covers, or direct seeding applications where mulch is
contraindicated. To provide habitat for beneficial insects and other wildlife,
up to five percent (5%) of the landscape area may be left without mulch.
Designated insect habitat must be included in the landscape design plan as
such.
         e.   Stabilizing mulching products shall be used on slopes that meet
current engineering standards.
         f.   The mulching portion of the seed/mulch slurry in hydroseeded
applications shall meet the mulching requirement.
         g.   Organic mulch materials made from recycled or postconsumer
products shall take precedence over inorganic materials or virgin forest
products unless the recycled postconsumer organic products are not locally
available.
   B.   The landscape design plan, at a minimum, shall:
      1.   Delineate and label each hydrozone by number, letter, or other
method;
      2.   Identify each hydrozone as low, moderate, high water, or mixed water
use. Temporarily irrigated areas of the landscape shall be included in the low
water use hydrozone for the water budget calculation;
      3.   Identify recreational areas;
      4.   Identify areas permanently and solely dedicated to edible plants;
      5.   Identify areas irrigated with recycled water;
      6.   Identify type of mulch and application depth;
      7.   Identify soil amendments, type, and quantity;
      8.   Identify type and surface area of water features;
      9.   Identify hardscapes (pervious and nonpervious);
      10.   Identify location, installation details, and twenty four (24) hour
retention or infiltration capacity of any applicable stormwater best management
practices that encourage on site retention and infiltration of stormwater.
Project applicants shall refer to the city of Porterville or regional water
quality control board for information on any applicable stormwater technical
requirements. Stormwater best management practices are encouraged in the
landscape design plan and examples are provided in section
25-32A.18 of this article.
      11.   Identify any applicable rain harvesting or catchment technologies
as discussed in section
25-32A.18 of this article and their twenty four (24) hour retention or
infiltration capacity;
      12.   Identify any applicable gray water discharge piping, system
components and area(s) of distribution;
      13.   Contain the following statement: "I have complied with the criteria
of the ordinance and applied them for the efficient use of water in the
landscape design plan"; and
      14.   Bear the signature of a licensed landscape architect, licensed
landscape contractor, or any other person authorized to design a landscape.
(See sections 5500.1, 5615, 5641, 5641.1, 5641.2, 5641.3, 5641.4, 5641.5,
5641.6, 6701, 7027.5 of the Business And Professions Code, section 832.27 of
title 16 of the California code of regulations, and section 6721 of the Food
And Agricultural Code.) (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.9: IRRIGATION DESIGN PLAN:
   A.   This section applies to landscaped areas requiring permanent
irrigation, not areas that require temporary irrigation solely for the plant
establishment period. For the efficient use of water, an irrigation system
shall meet all the requirements listed in this section and the manufacturers'
recommendations. The irrigation system and its related components shall be
planned and designed to allow for proper installation, management, and
maintenance. An irrigation design plan meeting the following design criteria
shall be submitted as part of the landscape documentation package.
      1.   System:
         a.   Landscape water meters, defined as either a dedicated water
service meter or private submeter, shall be installed for all nonresidential
irrigated landscapes of one thousand (1,000) square feet but not more than five
thousand (5,000) square feet (the level at which Water Code 535 applies) and
residential irrigated landscapes of five thousand (5,000) square feet or
greater. A landscape water meter may be either:
            (1)   A customer service meter dedicated to landscape use provided
by the city of Porterville; or
            (2)   A privately owned meter or submeter.
         b.   Automatic irrigation controllers utilizing either
evapotranspiration or soil moisture sensor data utilizing nonvolatile memory
shall be required for irrigation scheduling in all irrigation systems.
         c.   If the water pressure is below or exceeds the recommended
pressure of the specified irrigation devices, the installation of a pressure
regulating device is required to ensure that the dynamic pressure at each
emission device is within the manufacturer's recommended pressure range for
optimal performance.
            (1)   If the static pressure is above or below the required dynamic
pressure of the irrigation system, pressure regulating devices such as in-line
pressure regulators, booster pumps, or other devices shall be installed to meet
the required dynamic pressure of the irrigation system.
            (2)   Static water pressure, dynamic or operating pressure and flow
reading of the water supply shall be measured at the point of connection. These
pressure and flow measurements shall be conducted at the design stage. If the
measurements are not available at the design stage, the measurements shall be
conducted at installation.
         d.   Sensors (rain, freeze, wind, etc.), either integral or auxiliary,
that suspend or alter irrigation operation during unfavorable weather
conditions shall be required on all irrigation systems, as appropriate for
local climatic conditions. Irrigation should be avoided during windy or
freezing weather or during rain.
         e.   Manual shutoff valves (such as a gate valve, ball valve, or
butterfly valve) shall be required, as close as possible to the point of
connection of the water supply, to minimize water loss in case of an emergency
(such as a main line break) or routine repair.
         f.   Backflow prevention devices shall be required to protect the
water supply from contamination by the irrigation system. A project applicant
shall refer to the applicable local agency code (i.e., public health) for
additional backflow prevention requirements.
         g.   Flow sensors that detect high flow conditions created by system
damage or malfunction are required for all nonresidential landscapes and
residential landscapes of five thousand (5,000) square feet or larger.
         h.   Master shutoff valves are required on all projects except
landscapes that make use of technologies that allow for the individual control
of sprinklers that are individually pressurized in a system equipped with low
pressure shutdown features.
         i.   The irrigation system shall be designed to prevent runoff, low
head drainage, overspray, or other similar conditions where irrigation water
flows onto nontargeted areas, such as adjacent property, nonirrigated areas,
hardscapes, roadways, or structures.
         j.   Relevant information from the soil management plan, such as soil
type and infiltration rate, shall be utilized when designing irrigation
systems.
         k.   The design of the irrigation system shall conform to the
hydrozones of the landscape design plan.
         l.   The irrigation system must be designed and installed to meet, at
a minimum, the irrigation efficiency criteria as described in section
25-32A.6 of this article regarding the maximum applied water allowance.
         m.   All irrigation emission devices must meet the requirements set in
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard, American Society Of
Agricultural And Biological Engineers'/International Code Council's (ASABE/ICC)
802-2014 "landscape irrigation sprinkler and emitter standard". All sprinkler
heads installed in the landscape must document a distribution uniformity low
quarter of 0.65 or higher using the protocol defined in ASABE/ICC 802-2014.
         n.   Through the project review process, or, if an applicable project
is not subject to project review, during the building permit review process,
the public works director will provide information regarding peak water
operating demands (on the water supply system) or water restrictions that may
impact the effectiveness of the irrigation system.
         o.   In mulched planting areas, the use of low volume irrigation is
required to maximize water infiltration into the root zone.
         p.   Sprinkler heads and other emission devices shall have matched
precipitation rates, unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer's
recommendations.
         q.   Head to head coverage is recommended. However, sprinkler spacing
shall be designed to achieve the highest possible distribution uniformity using
the manufacturer's recommendations.
         r.   Swing joints or other riser protection components are required on
all risers subject to damage that are adjacent to hardscapes or in high traffic
areas of turf grass.
         s.   Check valves or antidrain valves are required on all sprinkler
heads where low point drainage could occur.
         t.   Areas less than ten feet (10') in width in any direction shall be
irrigated with subsurface irrigation or other means that produces no runoff or
overspray.
         u.   Overhead irrigation shall not be permitted within twenty four
inches (24") of any nonpermeable surface. Allowable irrigation within the
setback from nonpermeable surfaces may include drip, drip line, or other low
flow nonspray technology. The setback area may be planted or unplanted. The
surfacing of the setback may be mulch, gravel, or other porous material. These
restrictions may be modified if:
            (1)   The landscape area is adjacent to permeable surfacing and no
runoff occurs; or
            (2)   The adjacent nonpermeable surfaces are designed and
constructed to drain entirely to landscaping; or
            (3)   The irrigation designer specifies an alternative design or
technology as part of the landscape documentation package and clearly
demonstrates strict adherence to irrigation system design criteria in
subsection A1i of this section. Prevention of overspray and runoff must be
confirmed during the irrigation audit.
         v.   Slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%) shall not be
irrigated with an irrigation system with an application rate exceeding 0.75
inches per hour. This restriction may be modified if the landscape designer
specifies an alternative design or technology, as part of the landscape
documentation package, and clearly demonstrates no runoff or erosion will
occur. Prevention of runoff and erosion must be confirmed during the irrigation
audit.
      2.   Hydrozone:
         a.   Each valve shall irrigate a hydrozone with similar site, slope,
sun exposure, soil conditions, and plant materials with similar water use.
         b.   Sprinkler heads and other emission devices shall be selected
based on what is appropriate for the plant type within that hydrozone.
         c.   Where feasible, trees shall be placed on separate valves from
shrubs, ground covers, and turf to facilitate the appropriate irrigation of
trees. The mature size and extent of the root zone shall be considered when
designing irrigation for the tree.
         d.   Individual hydrozones that mix plants of moderate and low water
use, or moderate and high water use, may be allowed if:
            (1)   The plant factor calculation is based on the proportions of
the respective plant water uses and their plant factor; or
            (2)   The plant factor of the higher water using plant is used for
calculations.
         e.   Individual hydrozones that mix high and low water use plants
shall not be permitted.
         f.   On the landscape design plan and irrigation design plan,
hydrozone areas shall be designated by number, letter, or other designation. On
the irrigation design plan, designate the areas irrigated by each valve, and
assign a number to each valve. Use this valve number in the water efficient
landscape worksheet. This table can also assist with the irrigation audit and
programming the controller.
   B.   The irrigation design plan, at a minimum, shall contain:
      1.   Location and size of separate water meters for landscape;
      2.   Location, type and size of all components of the irrigation system,
including controllers, main and lateral lines, valves, sprinkler heads,
moisture sensing devices, rain switches, quick couplers, pressure regulators,
and backflow prevention devices;
      3.   Static water pressure at the point of connection to the public water
supply;
      4.   Flow rate (gallons per minute), application rate (inches per hour),
and design operating pressure (pressure per square inch) for each station;
      5.   Recycled water irrigation systems as specified in section
25-32A.16 of this article;
      6.   The following statement: "I have complied with the criteria of the
ordinance and applied them accordingly for the efficient use of water in the
irrigation design plan"; and
      7.   The signature of a licensed landscape architect, certified
irrigation designer, licensed landscape contractor, or any other person
authorized to design an irrigation system. (See sections 5500.1, 5615, 5641,
5641.1, 5641.2, 5641.3, 5641.4, 5641.5, 5641.6, 6701, 7027.5 of the Business
And Professions Code, section 832.27 of title 16 of the California code of
regulations, and section 6721 of the Food And Agricultural Code.) (Ord. 1830,
11-17-2015)
25-32A.10: GRADING DESIGN PLAN:
   A.   For the efficient use of water, grading of a project site shall be
designed to minimize soil erosion, runoff, and water waste. A grading plan
shall be submitted as part of the landscape documentation package. A
comprehensive grading plan prepared by a civil engineer for other building
permits satisfies this requirement.
      1.   The project applicant shall submit a landscape grading plan that
indicates finished configurations and elevations of the landscape area
including:
         a.   Height of graded slopes;
         b.   Drainage patterns;
         c.   Pad elevations;
         d.   Finish grade; and
         e.   Stormwater retention improvements, if applicable.
      2.   To prevent excessive erosion and runoff, it is highly recommended
that project applicants:
         a.   Grade so that all irrigation and normal rainfall remains within
property lines and does not drain onto nonpermeable hardscapes;
         b.   Avoid disruption of natural drainage patterns and undisturbed
soil; and
         c.   Avoid soil compaction in landscape areas.
      3.   The grading design plan shall contain the following statement: "I
have complied with the criteria of the ordinance and applied them accordingly
for the efficient use of water in the grading design plan" and shall bear the
signature of a licensed professional as authorized by law. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-
2015)
25-32A.11: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION:
   A.   The certificate of completion shall include the following six (6)
elements:
      1.   Project information sheet that contains:
         a.   Date;
         b.   Project name;
         c.   Project applicant name, telephone, and mailing address;
         d.   Project address and location;
         e.   Property owner name, telephone, and mailing address;
      2.   Certification by either the signer of the landscape design plan, the
signer of the irrigation design plan, or the licensed landscape contractor that
the landscape project has been installed per the approved landscape
documentation package;
         a.   Where there have been significant changes made in the field
during construction, these "as built" or record drawings shall be included with
the certification;
         b.   A diagram of the irrigation plan showing hydrozones shall be kept
with the irrigation controller for subsequent management purposes;
      3.   Irrigation scheduling parameters used to set the controller (see
section
25-32A.12 of this article);
      4.   Landscape and irrigation maintenance schedule (see section
25-32A.13 of this article);
      5.   Irrigation audit report (see section
25-32A.14 of this article); and
      6.   Soil analysis report, if not submitted with landscape documentation
package, and documentation verifying implementation of soil report
recommendations (see section
25-32A.7 of this article).
   B.   The project applicant shall:
      1.   Submit the signed certificate of completion to the city of
Porterville for review; and
      2.   Ensure that copies of the approved certificate of completion are
submitted to the property owner or his or her designee.
   C.   The city of Porterville shall:
      1.   Receive the signed certificate of completion from the project
applicant; and
      2.   Approve or deny the certificate of completion. If the certificate of
completion is denied, the city of Porterville shall provide information to the
project applicant regarding reapplication, appeal, or other assistance. (Ord.
1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.12: IRRIGATION SCHEDULING:
   A.   For the efficient use of water, all irrigation schedules shall be
developed, managed, and evaluated to utilize the minimum amount of water
required to maintain plant health. Irrigation schedules shall meet the
following criteria:
      1.   Irrigation scheduling shall be regulated by automatic irrigation
controllers.
      2.   Irrigation shall be scheduled in a manner consistent with the
current phase of the city's water conservation plan.
      3.   For implementation of the irrigation schedule, particular attention
must be paid to irrigation run times, emission device, flow rate, and current
reference evapotranspiration, so that applied water meets the estimated total
water use. Total annual applied water shall be less than or equal to maximum
applied water allowance (MAWA). Actual irrigation schedules shall be regulated
by automatic irrigation controllers using current reference evapotranspiration
data (e.g., CIMIS) or soil moisture sensor data.
      4.   Parameters used to set the automatic controller shall be developed
and submitted for each of the following:
         a.   The plant establishment period;
         b.   The established landscape; and
         c.   Temporarily irrigated areas.
      5.   Each irrigation schedule shall consider for each station all of the
following that apply:
         a.   Irrigation interval (days between irrigation);
         b.   Irrigation run times (hours or minutes per irrigation event to
avoid runoff);
         c.   Number of cycle starts required for each irrigation event to
avoid runoff;
         d.   Amount of applied water scheduled to be applied on a monthly
basis;
         e.   Application rate setting;
         f.   Root depth setting;
         g.   Plant type setting;
         h.   Soil type;
         i.   Slope factor setting;
         j.   Shade factor setting; and
         k.   Irrigation uniformity or efficiency setting. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-
2015)
25-32A.13: LANDSCAPE AND IRRIGATION MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Landscapes shall be maintained to ensure water use efficiency. A
regular maintenance schedule shall be submitted with the certificate of
completion.
   B.   A regular maintenance schedule shall include, but not be limited to,
routine inspection; auditing, adjustment and repair of the irrigation system
and its components; aerating and dethatching turf areas; top dressing with
compost, replenishing mulch; fertilizing; pruning; weeding in all landscape
areas, and removing obstructions to emission devices.
   C.   Repair of all irrigation equipment shall be done with the originally
installed components or their equivalents or with components with greater
efficiency.
   D.   A project applicant is encouraged to implement established landscape
industry sustainable best practices for all landscape maintenance activities.
(Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.14: IRRIGATION AUDIT, IRRIGATION SURVEY, AND IRRIGATION WATER USE
ANALYSIS:
   A.   All landscape irrigation audits shall be conducted by a third party
certified landscape irrigation auditor. Landscape audits shall not be conducted
by the person who designed the landscape or installed the landscape.
   B.   In large projects or projects with multiple landscape installations
(i.e., production home developments) an auditing rate of one in seven (7) lots
or approximately fifteen percent (15%) will satisfy this requirement.
   C.   For new construction and rehabilitated landscape projects installed
after December 3, 2015, as described in section
25-32A.2 of this article:
      1.   The project applicant shall submit an irrigation audit report with
the certificate of completion to the city of Porterville that may include, but
is not limited to: inspection, system tune up, system test with distribution
uniformity, reporting overspray or runoff that causes overland flow, and
preparation of an irrigation schedule, including configuring irrigation
controllers with application rate, soil types, plant factors, slope, exposure
and any other factors necessary for accurate programming; and
      2.   The city of Porterville shall administer programs that may include,
but not be limited to, irrigation water use analysis, irrigation audits, and
irrigation surveys for compliance with the maximum applied water allowance.
(Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.15: IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY:
   A.   For the purpose of determining estimated total water use, average
irrigation efficiency is assumed to be 0.75 for overhead spray devices and 0.81
for drip system devices. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.16: RECYCLED WATER:
   A.   The installation of recycled water irrigation systems shall allow for
the current and future use of recycled water.
   B.   All recycled water irrigation systems shall be designed and operated in
accordance with all applicable local and state laws.
   C.   Landscapes using recycled water are considered special landscape areas.
The ET adjustment factor for new and existing (nonrehabilitated) special
landscape areas shall not exceed 1.0. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.17: GRAY WATER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Gray water systems promote the efficient use of water and are
encouraged to assist in on site landscape irrigation. All gray water systems
shall conform to the California plumbing code (title 24, part 5, chapter 16)
and any applicable local ordinance standards. Refer to subsection 25-32A.2C of
this article for the applicability of this division to landscape areas less
than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet with the estimated total
water use met entirely by gray water. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.18: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND RAINWATER RETENTION:
   A.   Stormwater management practices minimize runoff and increase
infiltration which recharges groundwater and improves water quality.
Implementing stormwater best management practices into the landscape and
grading design plans to minimize runoff and to increase on site rainwater
retention and infiltration are encouraged.
   B.   Project applicants shall refer to the city of Porterville and regional
water quality control board for information on any applicable stormwater
technical requirements.
   C.   All planted landscape areas are required to have friable soil to
maximize water retention and infiltration. Refer to subsection 25-32A.8A3 of
this article.
   D.   It is strongly recommended that landscape areas be designed for capture
and infiltration capacity that is sufficient to prevent runoff from impervious
surfaces (i.e., roof and paved areas) from either:
      1.   The 1-inch, 24-hour rain event, or
      2.   The eighty fifth percentile, 24-hour rain event, and/or
      3.   Additional capacity as required by any applicable local, regional,
state or federal regulation.
   E.   It is recommended that stormwater projects incorporate any of the
following elements to improve on site stormwater and dry weather runoff capture
and use:
      1.   Grade impervious surfaces, such as driveways, during construction to
drain to vegetated areas.
      2.   Minimize the area of impervious surfaces such as paved areas, roof
and concrete driveways.
      3.   Incorporate pervious or porous surfaces (e.g., gravel, permeable
pavers or blocks, pervious or porous concrete) that minimize runoff.
      4.   Direct runoff from paved surfaces and roof areas into planting beds
or landscaped areas to maximize site water capture and reuse.
      5.   Incorporate rain gardens, cisterns, and other rain harvesting or
catchment systems.
      6.   Incorporate infiltration beds, swales, basins and drywells to
capture stormwater and dry weather runoff and increase percolation into the
soil.
      7.   Consider constructed wetlands and ponds that retain water, equalize
excess flow, and filter pollutants. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.19: PUBLIC EDUCATION:
   A.   Publications: Education is a critical component to promote the
efficient use of water in landscapes. The use of appropriate principles of
design, installation, management and maintenance that save water is encouraged
in the community.
      1.   The city of Porterville shall provide information to owners of
permitted renovations and new single-family residential homes regarding the
design, installation, management, and maintenance of water efficient landscapes
based on a water budget.
   B.   Model Homes: All model homes shall be landscaped and use signs and
written information to demonstrate the principles of water efficient landscapes
described in this division.
      1.   Signs shall be used to identify the model as an example of a water
efficient landscape featuring elements such as hydrozones, irrigation
equipment, and others that contribute to the overall water efficient theme.
Signage shall include information about the site water use as designed per this
division; specify who designed and installed the water efficient landscape; and
demonstrate low water use approaches to landscaping such as using native
plants, gray water systems, and rainwater catchment systems.
      2.   Information shall be provided about designing, installing, managing,
and maintaining water efficient landscapes. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.20: IRRIGATION AUDIT, IRRIGATION SURVEY, AND IRRIGATION WATER USE
ANALYSIS, EXISTING:
   A.   This section shall apply to all existing landscapes that were installed
before December 3, 2015, and are over one acre in size.
      1.   For all landscapes in this subsection A that have a water meter, the
city of Porterville shall administer programs that may include, but not be
limited to, irrigation water use analyses, irrigation surveys, and irrigation
audits to evaluate water use and provide recommendations as necessary to reduce
landscape water use to a level that does not exceed the maximum applied water
allowance for existing landscapes. The maximum applied water allowance for
existing landscapes shall be calculated as:   MAWA = (0.8)(ETo)(LA)(0.62).
      2.   For all landscapes in this subsection A that do not have a meter,
the city of Porterville shall administer programs that may include, but not be
limited to, irrigation surveys and irrigation audits to evaluate water use and
provide recommendations as necessary in order to prevent water waste.
   B.   All landscape irrigation audits shall be conducted by a third party
certified landscape irrigation auditor. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.21: WATER WASTE PREVENTION:
   A.   The city of Porterville shall prevent water waste resulting from
inefficient landscape irrigation by prohibiting runoff from leaving the target
landscape due to low head drainage, overspray, or other similar conditions
where water flows onto adjacent property, nonirrigated areas, walks, roadways,
parking lots, or structures.
   B.   Restrictions regarding overspray and runoff may be modified if:
      1.   The landscape area is adjacent to permeable surfacing and no runoff
occurs; or
      2.   The adjacent nonpermeable surfaces are designed and constructed to
drain entirely to landscaping. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.22: EFFECTIVE PRECIPITATION:
   A.   The city of Porterville will consider effective precipitation (25
percent of annual precipitation) in tracking water use and will use the
following equation to calculate maximum applied water allowance:
   MAWA = (ETo - Eppt)(0.62)[(0.55 x LA) + (0.45 x SLA)] for residential areas.
   MAWA = (ETo - Eppt)(0.62)[(0.45 x LA) + (0.55 x SLA)] for nonresidential
areas.
(Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.23: PRESCRIPTIVE COMPLIANCE OPTION:
   A.   Any project with an aggregate landscape area of two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet or less may comply with the prescriptive compliance
option as an alternative to the other performance requirements of this
division.
   B.   Compliance with the following items is mandatory and must be documented
on a landscape plan in order to use the prescriptive compliance option:
      1.   Submit a landscape documentation package which includes the
following elements:
         a.   Date;
         b.   Project applicant;
         c.   Project address (if available, parcel and/or lot number(s));
         d.   Total landscape area (square feet), including a breakdown of turf
and plant material;
         e.   Project type (e.g., new, rehabilitated, public, private,
cemetery, homeowner installed);
         f.   Water supply type (e.g., potable, recycled, well) and identify
the local retail water purveyor if the applicant is not served by a private
well;
         g.   Contact information for the project applicant and property owner;
         h.   Applicant signature and date with statement,
I agree to comply with the requirements of the prescriptive compliance option
to the MWELO.
      2.   Incorporate compost at a rate of at least four (4) cubic yards per
one thousand (1,000) square feet to a depth of six inches (6") into landscape
area (unless contraindicated by a soil test).
      3.   Plant material shall comply with all of the following:
         a.   For residential areas, install climate adapted plants that
require occasional, little or no summer water (average WUCOLS plant factor 0.3)
for seventy five percent (75%) of the plant area excluding edibles and areas
using recycled water. For nonresidential areas, install climate adapted plants
that require occasional, little or no summer water (average WUCOLS plant factor
0.3) for one hundred percent (100%) of the plant area excluding edibles and
areas using recycled water;
         b.   A minimum three inch (3") layer of mulch shall be applied on all
exposed soil surfaces of planting areas except in turf areas, creeping or
rooting ground covers, or direct seeding applications where mulch is
contraindicated.
      4.   Turf shall comply with all of the following:
         a.   Turf shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the landscape
area in residential areas, and there shall be no turf in nonresidential areas;
         b.   Turf shall not be planted on sloped areas which exceed a slope of
one foot (1') vertical elevation change for every four feet (4') of horizontal
length;
         c.   Turf is prohibited in parkways less than ten feet (10') wide,
unless the parkway is adjacent to a parking strip and used to enter and exit
vehicles. Any turf in parkways must be irrigated by subsurface irrigation or by
other technology that creates no overspray or runoff.
      5.   Irrigation systems shall comply with the following:
         a.   Automatic irrigation controllers are required and must use
evapotranspiration or soil moisture sensor data.
         b.   Irrigation controllers shall be of a type which does not lose
programming data in the event the primary power source is interrupted.
         c.   Pressure regulators shall be installed on the irrigation system
to ensure the dynamic pressure of the system is within the manufacturer's
recommended pressure range.
         d.   Manual shutoff valves (such as a gate valve, ball valve, or
butterfly valve) shall be installed as close as possible to the point of
connection of the water supply.
         e.   All irrigation emission devices must meet the requirements set in
the ANSI standard, ASABE/ICC 802-2014, "landscape irrigation sprinkler and
emitter standard". All sprinkler heads installed in the landscape must document
a distribution uniformity low quarter of 0.65 or higher using the protocol
defined in ASABE/ICC 802-2014.
   C.   At the time of final inspection, the permit applicant must provide the
owner of the property with a certificate of completion, certificate of
installation, irrigation schedule and a schedule of landscape and irrigation
maintenance. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.24: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalties for violation of this division will be imposed as prescribed
in chapter 1 of this code. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.25: REPORTING:
   A.   The city of Porterville will report on implementation and enforcement
of this division to the department of water resources on an annual basis, not
later than January 31 of each year.
   B.   The report shall include the following information:
      1.   The number and types of projects subject to the ordinance during the
specified reporting period.
      2.   The total area (in square feet or acres) subject to the ordinance
over the reporting period, if available.
      3.   The number of new housing starts, new commercial projects, and
landscape retrofits during the reporting period.
      4.   The procedure for review of projects subject to the ordinance.
      5.   Actions taken to verify compliance. If a plan check was performed,
note by which entity. If a site inspection was performed, note by which entity.
If a postinstallation audit was required, note by whom.
      6.   Describe enforcement measures.
      7.   Explain challenges to implementing and enforcing the ordinance.
      8.   Describe educational and other needs to properly apply the
ordinance. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.26: WASTEFUL USE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
In addition to all protocols within this division adopted with the intent to
increase efficient outdoor water use, property owners and residents shall use
reasonable care to prevent the waste of water. Water shall not be allowed to
run or waste from a property onto streets or highways, and shall not be used to
wash sidewalks, building entrances or lobbies or other properties to such
excess that water shall flow in street gutters beyond the frontage of the
properties occupied by them. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
25-32A.27: CITY WATER CONSERVATION PLAN:
The city council has adopted by resolution its water conservation plan which
sets forth water conservation phases and conservation measures including
mandatory restrictions on water usage by property owners and water consumers.
Violation of the measures in effect, currently and as may be amended by
resolution from time to time, pursuant to the applicable phase of the water
conservation plan, shall be enforceable as set forth per any applicable remedy
provisions in this code, including, but not limited to, sections 1-9 and 1-10
of this code, and chapter 2, article XIV of this code, and/or this division.
The city's water conservation plan is deemed to be the city's "water shortage
contingency plan" as per applicable state law. (Ord. 1830, 11-17-2015)
ARTICLE II. SEWER SYSTEM GENERALLY
SECTION:
Division 1. Generally
25-33: Definitions
25-34: Permit Required For Construction Of Sewer Or Connection To Sewer System
25-34.1: Connection To Public Sewer Required
25-35: House Connection Installed At Owner's Expense; Tapping Line
25-36: Sewer Rental Charges
25-36.1: Service To Inhabitants Outside City Boundaries; Charges
25-36.2: Approval For Sewer Service Outside City Limits
25-37: Collection Of Sewer Rentals; Penalties; Discontinuance Of Water Service
For Nonpayment; Charges To Be Lien
25-38: Disposition Of Revenue
Division 2. Laterals And Trunks
25-39: Construction Of Laterals Generally And Financing Thereof
25-40: Construction Of Trunk Lines And Financing Thereof
25-41: Connection Charges
25-42: Sewer Extension Revolving Fund
25-43: Ownership And Maintenance Of Lines
Division 3. Extension Of Sewer Mains
25-44: Application For Extension Of Sewer Mains Not Under Assessment District
Or Bond Issue; Deposit Of Estimated Cost Required
25-45: Preparation Of Plans For New Construction By City When Extension
Requested
25-45.1: Acreage Fee
25-46: Plans For New Construction By City Put Out For Bid; Submission Of Bids
25-47: Estates Benefited To Deposit Additional Amount If Bids In Excess Of
Deposit
25-48: Where Funds Deposited; Dispersal
25-49: Costs Of Construction Prorated Among Estates Benefited
25-50: Refunds When Construction Cost Less Than Deposit
25-51: Unclaimed Refunds To Escheat To City
25-52: Contract Between City And Property Owners; Required Upon Completion
25-53: Contract Between City And Property Owners; Terms
25-54: Connection Not Made Until Prorated Charge Paid Or Payment Arranged
25-55: Permit And Fee Required To Connect
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
25-33: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   CONNECTION CHARGE: A general term referring to one or more of the charges
hereinafter established and defined, made at the time of connecting onto the
city sewer system.
   CONNECTIONS: A privately owned and maintained pipe conveying sewage from a
single building or premises into a lateral or other common sewer; and shall
also mean the act of installing and connecting the privately owned pipe onto
such sewer.
   LATERAL: A common sewer into which two (2) or more connections are made and
shall normally, but not exclusively, be considered to be any sewer six (6) or
eight inches (8") in diameter.
   SEWAGE: Sanitary wastewater carrying human excrement and like material
derived principally from dwelling, business buildings, institutions and welfare
rooms of industrial buildings.
   SEWERS: Only those pipes carrying sewage, and shall not include those
primarily carrying storm drainage and industrial wastes.
   TRUNK: A common sewer larger than a lateral and receiving sewage from
several laterals and house connections. (Ord. 680 § 2)
25-34: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SEWER OR CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a sewer in a city street,
alley or easement, or connect onto the sewer system of the city without first
receiving a permit to do so and complying with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 680 § 1)
25-34.1: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED:
All new construction, including residential, commercial, and all other
development within the city of Porterville shall be connected to a public
sanitary sewer, unless the city council shall determine by resolution that a
different method of sewage disposal shall be utilized. (Ord. 1039 § A, 6-5-
1973)
25-35: HOUSE CONNECTION INSTALLED AT OWNER'S EXPENSE; TAPPING LINE:
Each parcel of land under separate ownership shall be served through at least
one house connection. The owner shall install, or cause to be installed, the
house connection at his own expense and under the supervision and inspection of
the city. (Ord. 680 § 3; Ord. 1214 § 1, 9-16-1980)
25-36: SEWER RENTAL CHARGES:
Sewer rental charges for domestic, commercial and industrial use outside of the
city are hereby established and at rates fixed by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. Code § 3635; Ord. 919 § A, 7-19-1968; Ord. 929 § A, 11-12-1968;
Ord. 954 § A, 9-19-1969; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973)
25-36.1: SERVICE TO INHABITANTS OUTSIDE CITY BOUNDARIES; CHARGES:
Except as provided by section 25-36.2 of this article pertaining to sewer
connections outside city limits, the city council may, at its option and sole
discretion, elect to make available sewer services to inhabitants outside the
boundaries of the city and under such rules and regulations as the city council
may, at its discretion, determine, and discontinue such service at its option
and election. Said service shall be made available only to the owners of the
property to be served. (Ord. 1564 § 2, 12-1-1998)
25-36.2: APPROVAL FOR SEWER SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The city manager, or his/her designee, shall have authority for the
administrative approval of requests for sewer service outside city limits, if
applicant meets all other conditions as required by this code and the
annexation policy manual and all other pertinent regulations.
Consideration of said request shall be in conjunction with approval of required
city permits and payment of applicable fees. (Ord. 1564 § 2, 12-1-1998)
25-37: COLLECTION OF SEWER RENTALS; PENALTIES; DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE
FOR NONPAYMENT; CHARGES TO BE LIEN:
Charges for sewer rentals shall be included with the water bill and if the
charge for sewer rental shall remain unpaid at the due date for the payment of
water bills, there shall be added to the sewer rental charge the same penalties
and interest as are required for delinquencies or nonpayment of water bills.
Water services may be discontinued for nonpayment of the charge for sewer
rental or sewer rental penalties and interest, and any unpaid charge for sewer
rental or sewer rental penalties or interest may be placed as a lien on the
real property involved. (Ord. Code § 3635.1)
25-38: DISPOSITION OF REVENUE:
All money received from the collection of sewer rental charges together with
penalties and interest shall be deposited by the city treasurer who shall
establish and maintain a "sewer rental fund". This fund shall be used for the
payment of bond redemption and interest charges for sanitary sewer and
wastewater treatment facilities and for the payment of the cost of land
acquisitioned, rights of way, easements, construction, reconstruction,
maintenance, management, operations and repair of the sewerage system, sewage
treatment works, sewage disposal system of sewage pumping, treatment and
disposal works; provided, however, that such fund shall not be used for the
acquisition or construction of new location sewers or laterals as designated
from interceptor and outfall sewers. (Ord. 1537 § B93, 8-6-1996)
DIVISION 2. LATERALS AND TRUNKS
25-39: CONSTRUCTION OF LATERALS GENERALLY AND FINANCING THEREOF:
The city will assist in the design and supervision of lateral construction. The
city may construct laterals, and the cost of such construction shall be
recovered from an assessment district formed to purchase such laterals or from
the minimum lateral connection charge as provided in section
25-41 of this article.
In the event that a private individual constructs laterals, and such laterals
are later included within the boundaries of an assessment district formed to
finance a sewer collector system, the cost of such lateral construction will be
returned to such individual by the district; provided, that the costs returned
shall not exceed the actual costs to the individual nor the district costs for
a similar quantity of work, whichever is smaller. In the absence of such
district financing, the city may enter into an agreement with such individual
under the terms of which the city will reimburse him for that portion of the
cost of the lines over and above the cost applicable to his premises; provided,
that the source of funds for such reimbursement shall be the lateral connection
charges collected from other users of the lines; and provided further, that
such agreements shall terminate within ten (10) years from date thereof. (Ord.
680 § 3)
25-40: CONSTRUCTION OF TRUNK LINES AND FINANCING THEREOF:
The city may construct trunk sewers into all areas within the city and areas
subsequently annexed into the city which are not yet served by sewers as
rapidly as funds are available and budgeted therefor by the city council.
In the event that a private individual constructs trunk lines in advance of the
time the city is able to do so, the city may enter into an agreement with such
individual under the terms of which the city will reimburse him for that
portion of the cost of the lines over and above the cost applicable to his
premises; provided, however, that the source of funds for such reimbursement
shall be the trunk sewer connection charges collected from other users of the
lines and provided that such an agreement shall terminate within ten (10) years
from the date thereof, and; provided further, that the cost returned shall not
exceed the actual cost to the individual nor the then current costs for similar
quantities of work performed by the city, whichever is smaller. (Ord. 680 § 3)
25-41: CONNECTION CHARGES:
The charges enumerated in this section shall be paid to the city prior to the
issuance of the sewer connection permit and connection to the line.
   A.   Line Taps: When a wye branch is not available to connect into, the
person requesting connection shall pay a fee as fixed by resolution of the city
council.
   B.   Laterals: If a house connection is made directly into a main or into a
lateral which has not been constructed or financed through an assessment
district, or by the party desiring to make the connection, there shall be paid
a connection charge as fixed by resolution of the city council. Such lateral
construction charges shall be in addition to any other charge enumerated in
this article.
   C.   Reserved.
   D.   Wastewater Treatment Plant Fees: Before any connection can be made into
any sewer, there shall be paid a wastewater treatment plan construction charge
as fixed by resolution of the city council to reimburse the city for
construction of expansion of wastewater treatment plant facilities.
   E.   Additional Requirements: The city council may add, by resolution, rules
and requirements implementing the resolutions adopting fees referred to in this
section. (Ord. 680 § 4; Ord. 1046 § A, 9-18-1973; Ord. 1206 § 1, 7-1-1980; Ord.
1439, 8-21-1990)
25-42: SEWER EXTENSION REVOLVING FUND:
There is hereby established and set up a sewer extension revolving fund, and
all money collected from main line connection charges and lateral connection
charges shall be placed in such sewer extension revolving fund and disbursed
therefrom to reimburse the city for construction and replacement of trunk
sewers, lateral sewers and to reimburse others who have advanced the cost of
constructing lines as provided in this article. (Ord. 680 § 5)
25-43: OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF LINES:
Lines on private property belong to the property owner, unless a line is or
becomes a part of a community system serving more than one piece of property;
however, before such a multiple use may be permitted, the lines and an
acceptable utility easement along such lines must be approved by and granted to
the city.
All lines on public streets, alleys, roads and easements, shall be the property
of the city when connected to the city lines and when the job is completed and
approved by the city engineer and accepted by the city council.
The city will maintain all lines belonging to the city, but the property owners
shall maintain all others including the house connection for its full distance
from the main or lateral to the house or premises. (Ord. 680 § 6)
DIVISION 3. EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS
25-44: APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS NOT UNDER ASSESSMENT DISTRICT
OR BOND ISSUE; DEPOSIT OF ESTIMATED COST REQUIRED:
One or more property owners desiring to have public sewer facilities
constructed to serve their property and not wishing to have such sewer
facilities or water facilities constructed under an assessment district and
bond issue may deposit with the city manager an amount which in the estimation
of the city manager will be sufficient to cover the entire cost of such
construction, including preparation and specifications. Such monies so
deposited shall not draw interest. (Ord. Code § 3612.1)
25-45: PREPARATION OF PLANS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION BY CITY WHEN EXTENSION
REQUESTED:
When requests for the extension of sewer mains are received as provided in
section 25-44 of this article and when the deposit required by section
25-44 of this article has been made, then, if, in the opinion of the city
manager, sewer facilities are necessary and the construction thereof feasible,
he shall cause plans and specifications for the construction thereof to be
prepared. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
25-45.1: ACREAGE FEE:
   A.   Purpose: In order to implement the goals and objectives of the
wastewater facilities master plan of the city, and to provide needed wastewater
facilities for new development in the planning area, certain public wastewater
facilities must be constructed. The city council has determined that a
development impact fee is needed in order to finance these public improvements
and to pay for the development's fair share of the construction costs of these
improvements. In establishing the fee described below, the city council has
found the fee to be consistent with its general plan and, pursuant to
Government Code section 65913.2, has considered the effects of the fee with
respect to the city's housing needs as established in the housing element of
the general plan.
   B.   Established: An acreage fee is hereby established upon issuance of
certificate of occupancy for development in the city, or upon connection to the
city sewer system for development in the city, or upon connection to wastewater
facilities. The city council shall, in a council resolution, set forth the
specific amount of the fee, describe the benefit and impact area on which the
development fee is imposed, list the specific public improvements to be
financed, describe the estimated cost of these facilities, describe the
reasonable relationships between this fee and the various types of new
development and set forth time for payment. As described in the fee resolution,
this development fee shall be paid by each developer prior to issuance of
certificate of occupancy or connection to the sewer system.
On an annual basis, this fee shall be adjusted by the public works director or
designee in accordance with the "Engineering News Record Construction Cost
Index" publication.
   C.   Limited Use Of Fees: The revenues raised by payment of this fee shall
be placed in a separate and special account, and such revenues, along with any
interest earnings on that account, shall be used solely to:
      1.   Pay for the city's future construction of wastewater facilities
described in the resolution enacted with this section, or to reimburse the city
for those described or listed wastewater facilities constructed by the city
with funds advanced by the city from other sources; or
      2.   Reimburse developers who have been required or permitted as set
forth below, to install such listed wastewater facilities which are oversized
with supplemental size, length, or capacity.
   D.   Developer Construction Of Facilities: Whenever a developer is required,
as a condition of approval of a development permit, to construct a public
facility described in a resolution adopted pursuant to this section, and when
such construction is necessary to ensure efficient and timely construction of
the facilities network, a reimbursement agreement with the developer shall be
offered. The reimbursement amount shall not exceed the actual cost of the
construction of the facility by the developer. In the event the actual
construction cost of the facility exceeds the fee required of the development
project, the city shall enter into a reimbursement agreement for the cost in
excess of the fee required for the project, to be paid from the special account
established pursuant to this section. (Ord. 1754, 6-2-2009)
25-46: PLANS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION BY CITY PUT OUT FOR BID; SUBMISSION OF BIDS:
Immediately after the plans and specifications provided for in section 25-45 of
this article are prepared, the city manager shall call for bids and submit the
same to the city council for acceptance or rejection. (Ord. Code § 3622)
25-47: ESTATES BENEFITED TO DEPOSIT ADDITIONAL AMOUNT IF BIDS IN EXCESS OF
DEPOSIT:
If the amount estimated by the city manager, as set forth in section 25-44 of
this article, is not sufficient to cover the entire cost of such sewer
construction, including the preparation of plans and specifications, either at
a bid price or by force account, the city manager shall notify the property
owner, or owners, involved of the additional amount necessary to do such work,
and within ten (10) days thereafter such property owner, or owners, shall
deposit such additional amount with the city manager. Should the property
owner, or owners, fail to deposit such additional amount, the city manager
shall prepare a statement showing all expenditures on behalf of the proposed
sewer construction and after deducting the same from the deposit made by the
property owner, or owners, the city manager shall thereafter refund to the
property owner, or owners, all the money deposited by them, except that amount
shown by the city manager's statement to have been expended on behalf of the
proposed construction. (Ord. Code § 3623)
25-48: WHERE FUNDS DEPOSITED; DISPERSAL:
When the full amount necessary to cover the entire cost of the construction
pursuant to this article, has been so deposited with the city treasurer, it
shall be placed in a guaranteed deposit account against which only charges for
such sewer construction shall be drawn. (Ord. 1537 § B94, 8-6-1996)
25-49: COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION PRORATED AMONG ESTATES BENEFITED:
Immediately after the completion of the sewer construction pursuant to this
article, the city treasurer shall prorate or cause to be prorated, the entire
cost thereof against all lots, tracts of land or property that may be
ultimately benefited by direct connection to such sewer, in proportion to the
frontage thereof, or if the lot, lots, tract of land or property be irregular
in shape, then in such manner as may, in the opinion of the public works
director or designee, provide an equitable distribution of cost. (Ord. 1537 §
B95, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
25-50: REFUNDS WHEN CONSTRUCTION COST LESS THAN DEPOSIT:
After proper charges for the entire cost of the sewer construction pursuant to
this article has been paid, the excess, if any, remaining on deposit with the
city, shall be refunded to the property owner, or owners, in proportion to the
amount contributed by him or them. (Ord. Code § 3626)
25-51: UNCLAIMED REFUNDS TO ESCHEAT TO CITY:
Any person entitled to any refund under the provisions of this article shall
keep on file with the city his correct mailing address. In the event the city
is unable to locate any person entitled to receive a refund hereunder, it shall
send a written notice to such person by registered mail to the last address
filed by such person with the city. Such written notice shall contain a
statement of the amount of such refund and shall also advise such person that
if the refund is not called for within one year from the date of such notice,
all rights of such person to that particular refund will be forfeited. After
the period of one year, the refund or refunds shall be paid or deposited into
the general fund of the city. (Ord. Code § 3626.1)
25-52: CONTRACT BETWEEN CITY AND PROPERTY OWNERS; REQUIRED UPON COMPLETION:
Immediately upon the completion of the sewer construction pursuant to this
article, the property owner, or owners, who have contributed thereto shall
enter into a contract with the city. (Ord. Code § 3627.1)
25-53: CONTRACT BETWEEN CITY AND PROPERTY OWNERS; TERMS:
The city manager is hereby authorized on behalf of the city to enter into a
written contract with the property owner, or owners, depositing funds as
provided in this article, which contract shall contain among other things, the
following conditions:
   A.   No property owner or person in possession or control of such property
shall be permitted to connect to such sewer unless he has first paid the charge
placed against such property as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   That the city shall endeavor to collect such charges and cause the same
so collected to be refunded, as provided in subsection C of this section, but
shall not be liable for any failure to make such collection or refund.
   C.   That all sums so paid by any property owner or person in possession of
such property shall be refunded to the property owner, or owners, or person in
possession, who deposited the amount necessary to complete such sewer in the
proportion that the amount contributed bears to the entire cost, until such
property owner, or owners, or person making such deposit, have received the
entire amount deposited by them, less that proportion prorated against their
own property.
   D.   If the entire amount has not been refunded, as provided in subsection C
of this section, within a period of fifteen (15) years from the date of such
contract, the same shall terminate and be of no further force and effect.
   E.   No charge made or payment collected shall bear interest. (Ord. Code §
3627.2)
25-54: CONNECTION NOT MADE UNTIL PRORATED CHARGE PAID OR PAYMENT ARRANGED:
In no event shall any owner of property benefited by the sewer constructed
pursuant to this article or other person in possession or control of such real
property be permitted to connect thereto without first paying, or by written
agreement arranging to pay, the prorated charges placed against the property by
the public works director or designee. The council may, by resolution,
establish provisions whereby property owners may pay sewer connection fees in
installments over a period of time not to exceed three (3) years. (Ord. 1537 §
B96, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
25-55: PERMIT AND FEE REQUIRED TO CONNECT:
No person shall connect any property with the public sewer without first
obtaining the permit and paying the fee provided by the provisions of this code
and other ordinances of the city. (Ord. Code § 3632)
ARTICLE III. USE OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY
SECTION:
25-56: Permit Required; Fee
25-57: Compliance With Regulations Generally
25-58: Revocation Of Permit
25-56: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump, place, unload
or dispose sewage material, offal, cleanings from septic tanks, cesspools,
sewage seepage pits, or privies at the Porterville wastewater treatment
facility without first obtaining from the public works director or designee of
the city of Porterville a permit so to do. Every person, firm or corporation
using or employing the Porterville wastewater treatment facility in any form or
manner in the disposal of sewage material, offal, cleanings from septic tanks,
cesspools, sewage seepage pits, or privies shall first obtain from the public
works director or designee a permit and pay therefor to the city of Porterville
a fee as fixed by resolution of the city council for any material dumped.
No permit issued hereunder shall be transferable or assignable. (Ord. 1537 §
B97, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
25-57: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
Every person, firm or corporation holding a permit from the public works
director or designee shall comply with all ordinances of the county of Tulare,
ordinances of the city of Porterville and the city of Porterville uniform
plumbing code and shall not suffer, allow or permit any strong acids, alkalis,
petroleum oils or greases, chrome solutions or other deleterious material to be
disposed of at the Porterville wastewater treatment facility under said permit
and all disposal and all dumping under permits so issued shall be accomplished
in a clean and orderly manner and at the times and places designated by the
public works director or designee. (Ord. 1537 § B97, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3,
9-17-2002)
25-58: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked by the
public works director or designee for cause or for violation of any of the
terms and provisions of this article on five (5) days' notice to the permittee.
An appeal may be taken from the decision of the public works director or
designee revoking any permit, within ten (10) days after the issuance of the
revocation, such appeal to be directed to the council of the city of
Porterville by written notice of such appeal and the council shall set the
matter for hearing, after five (5) days' notice to the permittee of the time
and place of said hearing, and the decision of the council shall be final in
the matter.
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for the appellant or any permittee to
operate under any revoked permit pending the decision of the council upon
appeal. (Ord. 1537 § B97, 8-6-1996; Ord. 1614 § 3, 9-17-2002)
ARTICLE IV. REQUIREMENTS AND SURCHARGES FOR SEWAGE DISCHARGES INTO CITY
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
25-59: Definitions
25-60: Permissible Sewage Discharges And Requirements
25-61: Prohibited Sewage Discharge
25-62: Industrial Wastes Discharges
25-63: Violation Of Article
25-59: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5): The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory conditions for five (5) days at a temperature of
twenty degrees Celsius (20°C).
   CITY: The city of Porterville.
   MANHOLE: A hole through which a person may go to gain access to an
underground or enclosed structure.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in moles per liter.
   STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater", published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Environment Federation.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that are in suspension in water, sewage, or
industrial waste, and which are removable by a laboratory filtration device and
retained on a glass fiber filter with a nominal pore size of 1.5 µm and dried
at one hundred three (103) to one hundred five degrees Celsius (105°C) to a
constant weight in accordance with the procedure set forth in standard methods.
(Ord. 1047 § 1, 11-6-1973; Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-60: PERMISSIBLE SEWAGE DISCHARGES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Normal sewage discharges shall consist of waters or wastes having the
following:
      1.   Suspended solids content not in excess of one hundred seventy five
milligrams per liter (175 mg/l); and
      2.   BOD5 not in excess of two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250
mg/l).
Sewage discharges exceeding any of the limits as set forth herein for normal
sewage discharges shall be classified as industrial wastes, and may be subject
to article V of this chapter.
   B.   Water which has been used as a cooling medium in any cooler, appliance,
device or other apparatus, may be discharged directly or indirectly into the
city sanitary sewer system, provided, however, that such discharge is not in
excess of fifteen percent (15%) of intake water.
   C.   Swimming pools may discharge into the city sanitary sewer system.
   D.   Any person proposing to discharge industrial wastes into the city
sanitary sewer system shall first obtain a permit for nonresidential wastewater
discharge from the city. Application for such permit shall be made in writing
to the city and shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Location of connection or proposed connection with the city sanitary
sewer system.
      3.   Estimated gallons of wastes proposed to be discharged and a
statement as to approximate time of discharging same, together with information
as to peak loads, and such other similar data as the city may require.
      4.   Statement of the character of the waste proposed to be discharged,
including such detail in connection therewith as the city engineer may require.
The city engineer may, at his discretion, require that an applicant for an
industrial waste permit file a bond in an amount deemed adequate by the city
engineer to indemnify the city and any other person against all loss, expense,
or damage which may result from or arise out of the granting of the permit and
the discharge of industrial wastes into the city sanitary sewer system. The
city engineer may require the bond as a condition precedent to the issuance of
an industrial waste permit or at any time after a permit is granted.
   E.   No person shall be permitted to maintain or use any facility or
connection to the city sanitary sewer system which is in violation of this
article, and any such facility or connection in existence at the time of the
effective date hereof shall be immediately corrected or disconnected from the
city sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 1047 § 1, 11-6-1973; Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-61: PROHIBITED SEWAGE DISCHARGE:
No person, firm or corporation shall discharge or cause to be discharged into
the city sanitary sewer system any of the following:
A – D. Reserved.
   E.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) or sixty five degrees Celsius (65°C).
   F.   Any waters or wastes containing emulsified oil and grease exceeding
fifty milligrams per liter (50 mg/l). In addition, disposal of petroleum oil,
nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral oil origin which may cause
interference or pass through is prohibited.
   G.   Any waters or wastes which contain grease or oil or other substance
which will become discernibly viscous at temperatures between thirty two
degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
   H.   Any radioactive isotopes having a half life of more than one hundred
(100) days.
   I.   Any noxious or malodorous gas such as hydrogen sulfide, sulphur dioxide
or nitrous oxide or other substance which either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of
preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and repair.
   J.   Any household garbage that has not been properly comminuted or
triturated. All ground garbage shall be capable of passing through a one-half
inch (1/2") mesh screen before being introduced into the city sanitary sewer
system.
   K.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
lime slurry, lime residues, beer or distillery slops, chemical residues, paint
residues, unscreened cannery waste, bulk solids, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing an obstruction to flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the city sanitary sewer system.
   L.   Any waters of nonsewage or nonindustrial waste origin, such as waters
from water well developments, storm water, etc., except by special permission
of the city.
All waters or wastes not meeting the applicable requirements of this section
shall be pretreated to meet such requirements before such waters or wastes
enter the city sanitary sewer system. Pretreatment shall be approved by the
city. (Ord. 1047 § 1, 11-6-1973; Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-62: INDUSTRIAL WASTES DISCHARGES:
   A.   All persons or corporations discharging industrial wastes into the city
sanitary sewer system shall be subject to a surcharge, in addition to any other
sewer service charges. The amount of surcharge shall reflect the cost incurred
by the city in removing the excess BOD5 and suspended solids in the waste load.
This surcharge will be determined as follows:
The excess pounds of BOD5 and suspended solids will be computed by multiplying
the industrial wastes flow volume in million gallons per day by the constant
8.345, and then multiplying this product by the difference between the
industrial wastes concentration of BOD5, and suspended solids and the
aforementioned "normal" concentration in milligrams per liter. The surcharge
for each constituent will then be determined by multiplying the excess pounds
of each constituent by the rate of surcharge and by the number of days in the
billing period.
The city may charge a surcharge fee for excess BOD and/or TSS at five (5) times
the established rate to encourage pretreatment of waste discharges.
The rates of surcharge for BOD5 per pound and suspended solids per pound shall
be established by resolution of the city council.
The rates of surcharge are to be reviewed periodically by the city in order to
determine whether or not they are sufficient to defray the fixed charges,
amortization costs, and annual cost of operation as determined from city
records. However, failure of the city to so review, shall not invalidate any
provision of this article and the fee established shall remain in effect until
changed by resolution of the city council.
   B.   The volume of flow used for computing industrial waste surcharges shall
be the metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the city. If the person or corporation discharging industrial
wastes into the city sanitary sewer system procures any part, or all, of his
water from sources other than the city, the person or corporation shall install
and maintain a water meter of a type approved by the city, for the purpose of
determining the volume of water obtained from these other sources. Devices for
measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by the city if these
volumes cannot be otherwise determined from the metered water consumption
records. Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by said person or corporation. Following
approval and installation, such meters shall not be removed without the consent
of the city.
   C.   Each person or corporation discharging industrial wastes into the city
sanitary sewer system shall, when required by the city, construct and maintain
one or more industrial waste monitoring manholes or access points to facilitate
observation, measurement and sampling of wastes, including domestic sewage.
Industrial waste monitoring manholes or access facilities shall be located and
built in a manner acceptable to the city.
   D.   Industrial wastes discharged to the city shall be subject to periodic
inspection and a determination of character and concentration of said wastes.
Said inspections and determination shall be made as often as may be determined
necessary by the city.
   E.   Industrial waste surcharges provided for in this article shall be
included as a separate item on the regular bill for sewer charges or sent as a
separate bill.
For sewer surcharge bills that remain unpaid at the due date for the payment of
said bills, there shall be added to the sewer surcharge the same penalties and
interest as are required for delinquencies or nonpayment of water bills. Water
services may be discontinued for nonpayment of the charge for sewer surcharge
or sewer surcharge penalties and interest, and any unpaid charge for sewer
surcharge or sewer surcharge penalties or interest may be placed as a lien on
the real property involved.
   F.   Significant industrial users as defined by section
25-75 of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions in article V of this
chapter. (Ord. 1047 § 1, 11-6-1973; Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-63: VIOLATION OF ARTICLE:
   A.   Cost Of Repair, Cleaning: In the event that any person or corporation
discharges any substance into the city sanitary sewer system in violation of
the provisions of this article, in addition to any other penalties provided by
this article, such person or corporation shall pay the city for the damage
caused thereby and for the cost of any repair or cleaning of any portion of
said sanitary sewer system made necessary by reason thereof. The city shall
determine the amount of such damage and costs.
   B.   Shutoff Of Premises: The city shall have the authority to shut off any
premises from the use of the city sanitary sewer system where the occupant or
user of such premises is placing, discharging or conducting any water or wastes
into the city sanitary sewer system in violation of this article.
   C.   Penalty For Violation: Any person or corporation violating any
provision of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of said provisions is committed, continued or
permitted, and upon conviction of any such violation such person or corporation
shall be punishable by a fine in accordance with minimum federal penalty
guidelines for each offense.
   D.   Additional Penalties, Enforcement: Additional penalties and enforcement
action will apply if a violation involves a "significant industrial user" as
defined by section 25-75 of this chapter. (Ord. 1047 § 1, 11-6-1973; Ord. 1636
§ A, 7-1-2003)
ARTICLE V. WASTEWATER DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
Division 1. Generally
25-74: Purpose And Policy
25-75: Definitions
25-76: Abbreviations
Division 2. Regulations
25-82: General Discharge Prohibitions
25-83: National Pretreatment Standards; Categorical Standards
25-84: Modifications Of Categorical Pretreatment Standards
25-85: Specific Pollutant Limitations
25-85.1: Grease, Oil And Sand Traps
25-86: State Requirements
25-87: City's Right Of Revision
25-88: Excessive Discharge
25-89: Accidental Discharges
25-90: Hazardous Waste Discharge
Division 3. Fees
25-95: Purpose
25-96: Fees And Charges
Division 4. Administration
25-102: Wastewater Dischargers
25-103: Industrial User Wastewater Permit Application
25-104: Reporting Requirements For Permittee
25-105: Monitoring Facilities
25-106: Inspection And Sampling
25-107: Pretreatment
25-108: Confidential Information
Division 5. Enforcement
25-109: Enforcement Program
25-110: Notice Of Violation
25-111: Consent Orders
25-112: Compliance Orders
25-113: Cease And Desist Order
25-114: Emergency Suspension
25-115: Termination Of Discharge
25-116: Reserved
25-117: Show Cause Hearing
25-118: Legal Action
25-119: Administrative Fines
Division 6. Penalty Costs
25-124: Civil Penalties
25-125: Falsifying Information
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
25-74: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
This article sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributions into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the clean water act of 1972 and amendments thereto, and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 CFR, part 403), as amended from time to time.
The objectives of this article are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city's municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city's wastewater
system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
   C.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
   D.   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
This article provides for the regulation of direct and indirect contributors to
the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits to certain
nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements for the other
users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user
reporting, assumes that existing customers' capacity will not be preempted, and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
This article shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city who are,
by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city's POTW. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the city manager shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this article. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-75: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions given in this section shall be used in the interpretations of
this article, the issuance of permits, the establishment of charges for service
and all other operations of this article unless the context specifically
indicates otherwise.
   ACT OR THE ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the
clean water act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   APPLICANT: Any person or group of persons, who applies for sewer service or
a wastewater discharge permit.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY: California regional water quality control board, Central
Valley region.
   AVERAGE DAILY FLOW: The total quantity of liquid tributary to a point
divided by the number of days of flow measurement.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5): Shall mean the quantity of oxygen,
expressed in milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory conditions for five (5) days at a
temperature of twenty degrees Celsius (20°C).
   BUILDING SEWER: A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the publicly operated treatment works (POTW).
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS: National pretreatment standards specifying quantities
or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties which may be discharged
to a POTW by existing or new industrial users in specific industrial
subcategories.
   CITY: The city of Porterville.
   CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Porterville or his or her
designee.
   CODE: Porterville municipal code.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS: Pollutants that are capable of being processed a)
under normal loading conditions by a biological wastewater treatment plant, and
b) in concentrations that are normally present in wastewater without any
detrimental effect on the city's POTW.
   COMPLIANCE DETERMINATION: The sampling and analysis conducted on specific
industrial wastes to ascertain compliance with applicable federal or state
pretreatment standards, whichever is more stringent.
   COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE: The time period allowed by the city in which an
industry shall comply with permit conditions or discharge requirements.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLES: A combination of individual samples of sewage taken at
hourly or selected intervals to minimize the variability of the individual
sample. Individual samples may be combined in quantities that are proportional
to the flow at the time of sampling.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY: The city manager or his or her designee.
   COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: The liquid and waterborne wastes derived from, or
equivalent to that of, ordinary residential living processes and which are of
such a character as to permit satisfactory disposal, without special treatment,
into the service lateral.
   EPA: Environmental protection agency.
   GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   GREASE, OIL, FATS: Any material, or like material, that is extractable.
   HOLDING TANK OR POND WASTE: Any wastewater or processed wastewater received
from holding tanks or ponds such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers,
trailers, septic tanks, vacuum tank trucks, and industrial or agricultural
process or wastewater holding tanks or ponds.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The discharge or the introduction of pollutants,
including holding tank discharge, from any nondomestic source regulated under
section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the act into the city's POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL USER OR USER: A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: All wastewater of a community, excluding domestic and
pollutant free wastewater, and shall include all such wastewater from any
producing, manufacturing, processing, institutional, commercial, agricultural
or other operation which contains characteristics unlike that of domestic
wastewater.
   INTERFERENCE: A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from another source, contribute to an inhibition or disruption of
the city's POTW treatment process or operations, or its sludge processes, use
or disposal; and therefore is a cause of violation of any requirement of the
city's waste discharge requirements. Interference includes any discharge that
causes the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
section 405 of the clean water act, the solid waste disposal act (SWDA)
(including title II, more commonly referred to as the resource conservation and
recovery act (RCRA), and including any state regulations contained in any state
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the clean
air act, the toxic substances control act, and the marine protection, research
and sanctuaries act, as amended from time to time.
   MAY: "May" is permissive. "Shall" is mandatory.
   MONITORING: The practice of investigating, surveying and sampling wastewater
sources in an effort to obtain information on the quality and quantity of the
wastewater flow.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES): A permit issued to
a POTW pursuant to section 402 of the act.
   NEW SOURCE: A. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
      1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection A2 or A3 of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
   C.   Construction of a "new source" as defined under this definition has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on site
construction program:
         a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
         b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation,
or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
      2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
subsection.
   PASS-THROUGH: A discharge which exits the city's POTW into waters of the
United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of
any requirement of the city's waste discharge requirements.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine. The singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen
ions.
   POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
the city's POTW.
   POLLUTION: The manmade or man induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological and radiological integrity of water.
   PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes; process changes; or by
other means, except dilution is not an acceptable means to reduce the amounts
of pollutants in a waste stream.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with the act which applies to any user of
the city's POTW.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works as defined by the
act, including sewer lines, lift stations that convey wastewater to the POTW
plant and shall include any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by agreement with the city, users of the
city's POTW.
   RCRA: Resource conservation and recovery act.
   SAMPLING WELL: An approved opening to a building sewer for the purpose of
sampling and flow measurement.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user of the city's wastewater
disposal system that:
   A.   Is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR
403.6 and 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, as amended from time to time; or
   B.   Has an average discharge flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons
or more per day; or
   C.   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up five percent (5%) or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity in the city's
waste treatment system; or
   D.   Has in its waste discharge, any toxic pollutants defined in the act; or
   E.   Is found by the city, state agency or U.S. environmental protection
agency to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of
sludge, the system's effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the
system.
   SLUG DISCHARGE: Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or a noncustomary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC): A classification pursuant to the
"Standard Industrial Classification Manual" and as amended.
   STATE: The state of California.
   STORM WATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT: The person designated by the city manager to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works, and who is charged with
certain duties and responsibilities by this article, or his duly authorized
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Shall mean solids that are in suspension in water, sewage,
or industrial waste, and which are removable by a laboratory filtration device
and retained on a glass fiber filter with a nominal pore size of 1.5 µm and
dried at one hundred three (103) to one hundred five degrees Celsius (105°C) to
a constant weight in accordance with the procedure set forth in standard
methods.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT: Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the EPA under provision of
the act.
   USER OR INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER: The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic waste from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: As set forth in section
25-103 of this article. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-76: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD5  Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR   Code of federal regulations
EC    Electrical conductance
EPA   Environmental protection agency
l     Liter
mg    Milligram
mg/l  Milligrams per liter
NPDES National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA  Resource conservation and recovery act
SIC   Standard industrial classification
SWDA  Solid waste disposal act, 42 USC 6901 et seq.
TSS   Total suspended solids
USC   United States Code
 
(Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
DIVISION 2. REGULATIONS
25-82: GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will cause pass- through or interference with
the operation or performance of the city's POTW. These general prohibitions
apply to all such users of the city's POTW whether or not the user is subject
to national categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state or
local pretreatment standards or requirements. A user shall have an affirmative
defense in any action brought against it alleging a violation of general or
specific prohibitions where the user can demonstrate that it did not know or
have reason to know that its waste discharge, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, would cause pass- through or
interference and that the ongoing compliance of their waste discharge met all
federal, state and local limits or that their waste discharge experienced only
minimal deviation from their norm prior to or during the pass-through or
interference.
A user shall not contribute the following substances to the city's POTW:
   A.   Fire/Explosion Hazard: Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of
their nature or quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by
interaction with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in
any other way to the POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time, shall
two (2) successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of
discharge into the system (or at any point in the system) be more than five
percent (5%) nor any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower
explosion limit (LEL) of the meter. These hazards include, but are not limited
to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred forty
degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees Celsius (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21, as amended from time to time. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to: gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, sulfides and any other
substances which the city, the state, or the EPA has notified the user is a
fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
   B.   pH: Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 and higher than 9.0, or
wastewater having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and/or personnel of the POTW.
   C.   Solid Or Viscous Substances: Which may cause obstruction to the flow in
a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities, such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers,
ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood,
plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of
fuel or lubricating oil, mud, or glass grindings or polishing wastes.
   D.   Toxic Pollutants: Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to
injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the
POTW. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to section 307(a) of the act, as amended from time to time.
   E.   Noxious Or Malodorous Liquids: Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases
or solids which either singly or by interaction with other wastes are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
   F.   Substance Affecting Effluent, Residues: Any substance which may cause
the POTW's effluent or any other product of the POTW such as residues, sludges
or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the
reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause
the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed under section 405 of the act, as amended
from time to time; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use
or disposal developed pursuant to the solid waste disposal act, the clean air
act, the toxic substance control act, or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used.
   G.   Causing Pass-Through: Any substance which causes pass-through or
interference and, therefore, causes the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or state
waste discharge requirement permit.
   H.   Objectionable Color: Any wastewater with objectionable color not
removed in the treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye waste and
vegetable tanning solutions.
   I.   Reserved.
   J.   Flow Rate/Concentration: Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding
pollutants (BOD5, etc.), released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference or pass- through at the POTW. In no case shall a
slug load have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of pollutants
that exceed for any time period longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five
(5) times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration, quantities or flow
during normal operation.
   K.   Radioactive Wastes: Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or
isotopes of such half life or concentration as may exceed limits established by
the city.
   L.   Hazard; Nuisance: Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or
creates a public nuisance.
   M.   Sulfide: Any sulfide forming pollutants or wastes which, when
discharged to the sewer, generate sulfide concentrations in excess of one
milligram per liter (1 mg/l).
   N.   Reserved.
   O.   Reserved.
   P.   Hauled Pollutants: Any trucked or hauled pollutants are prohibited from
disposal except at those discharge points so designated by the POTW.
   Q.   Heat: Heat in any amount which will inhibit biological growth activity
in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case, heat in such quantities
that the temperature at the POTW exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C) (104°F)
unless the approval authority approves alternate temperature limits.
   R.   Oils: Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
(Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-83: NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS; CATEGORICAL STANDARDS:
The city, as legal control authority, will require compliance by all industrial
users of all applicable categorical standards and requirements. The reporting
requirements for industrial users subject to categorical standards are covered
in section 25-104 of this article. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-84: MODIFICATIONS OF CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
Where the city's wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of a
pollutant or pollutants limited by categorical pretreatment standards, the city
may apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the
categorical pretreatment standards. "Consistent removal" shall mean the average
of the lowest fifty percent (50%) of the removal measured by approved methods.
(Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-85: SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS:
The specific pollutant limitations will be set by resolution of the city. (Ord.
1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-85.1: GREASE, OIL AND SAND TRAPS:
   A.   Generally: Grease, oil and sand traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, they are necessary for the protection of the sewage system
from liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such traps shall not be
required for buildings used solely for residential purposes. Such traps shall
be required, for example, on discharges from all service stations, dry cleaning
establishments, eating establishments and food preparation establishments.
   B.   Construction: All traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
city and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. Restaurant traps shall be gastight, of a type approved for
restaurant use by the state and/or county health departments. Traps for all
other facilities, including service stations and garages, shall be in
accordance with the adopted plan of the city for such traps or shall be
approved equal thereof, as determined by the city.
   C.   Maintenance: When installed, all grease, oil and sand traps shall be
inspected and maintained by the owner at his expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-86: STATE REQUIREMENTS:
State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where
they apply to charter cities and are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this article. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-87: CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION:
   A.   The city reserves the right to establish by resolution more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in section
25-74 of this article.
   B.   In addition to the limitations upon the characteristics or quantity of
wastewater discharged, caused to be discharged or permitted to be discharged
into any public sewer pursuant to this article, the city may, in connection
with the issuance of permits pursuant to the provisions of this section,
establish additional specific limitations on wastewater strengths upon a
finding by the city that:
      1.   The limitations set forth in this article may not be sufficient to
protect the operation of the city's sewer system, treatment facilities or any
portion thereof, or the waste or wastewater proposed to be discharged otherwise
constitutes a hazard to, or unreasonable burden upon, such operation;
      2.   The limitation expressly set forth in this article may not be
sufficient to enable the operation of the city's sewage system of treatment
facilities to comply with water quality standards of effluent limitations
specified in the city's national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit and/or state waste discharge requirement permit; or
      3.   The permit for which application is made will cover new sources in
which case the permit shall require compliance with the best available
technology. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-88: EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE:
No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal categorical
pretreatment standards or in any other pollutant specific limitations developed
by the city or state. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-89: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES:
Each industrial user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this article. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner or user's own cost and expense. Detail plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the city for review and shall be approved by the city before
construction of the facility. No user who commences contribution to the POTW
after the effective date hereof shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into
the system until accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the
city. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user's
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this article. In the case of
an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately
telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include
location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective
actions.
   A.   Written Notice: All significant industrial users shall notify the POTW
immediately of all discharges (accidental or nonaccidental) that exceed their
permit limitations, including any slug loadings by the user. Within five (5)
days following an accidental or nonaccidental discharge, the user shall submit
to the city a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences.
Such modification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or
other liability which may be incurred as a result of the damage to the POTW or
any other damage to persons or property; nor shall such notification relieve
the user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed
by this article or other applicable laws.
   B.   Notice To Employees: A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's
bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the
event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who
may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-90: HAZARDOUS WASTE DISCHARGE:
Any industrial user, permitted or nonpermitted, shall notify the POTW in
writing of any discharge into the POTW of a substance, which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under federal regulations 40 CFR 261,
as amended from time to time. Notification must include the name of the
hazardous waste set forth in 40 CFR 261, as amended from time to time, the EPA
hazardous waste number, and type of discharge (continuous, batch, other). If
the industrial user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of such
wastes per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the
following information to the extent such information is known and readily
available to the industrial user: An identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the waste stream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following twelve months. All
notifications must take place within one hundred eighty (180) days after
discharge of the listed or characteristic hazardous waste. Any notification
under this section need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharged. However, all industrial users shall promptly notify the POTW in
advance of any substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in
their discharge, including the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for
which the industrial user has submitted initial notification. The notification
requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already reported under
the self-monitoring requirements of section
25-104 of this article.
Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of the above paragraph during a
calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen (15) kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), as amended from time to time, discharge of more
than fifteen (15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month,
or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d)
and 261.33(e), requires a one time notification.
Subsequent months during which the industrial user discharges more than such
quantities of any hazardous wastes do not require additional notification.
In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the POTW, the
EPA regional waste management waste division director, and state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety (90) days of
the effective date of such regulations.
In the case of any notification made under the preceding paragraphs, the
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has been
determined to be economically practical. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
DIVISION 3. FEES
25-95: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this division to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the city's wastewater disposal system and for the implementation of
the program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set
forth in the city's schedule of fees and charges. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-96: FEES AND CHARGES:
The city may adopt fees and charges which may include:
   A.   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the city's
pretreatment program;
   B.   Fees for monitoring inspection and surveillance procedures;
   C.   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
   D.   Fees for permit applications;
   E.   Fees for filing appeals;
   F.   Fees for consistent removal by the city of pollutants otherwise subject
to federal pretreatment standards; and
   G.   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein.
These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this article and are
separate from all other fees chargeable by the city and when new development
occurs, collectable upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 1754, 6-
2-2009)
DIVISION 4. ADMINISTRATION
25-102: WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge without city approval to any natural outlet
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city and/or to the
POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the city in accordance with the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-103: INDUSTRIAL USER WASTEWATER PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   General Permits: All significant industrial users connected to or
proposing to connect to the POTW shall obtain an industrial user wastewater
discharge permit before connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing
significant users connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain an
industrial user wastewater discharge permit within one hundred eighty (180)
days after the effective date hereof.
   B.   Industrial User Wastewater Discharge Permit Application: Users required
to obtain an industrial user wastewater discharge permit shall complete and
submit the nonresidential wastewater discharge permit application form,
accompanied by the required fee.
The city will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the city may issue an industrial user wastewater discharge permit subject to
terms and conditions provided herein.
   C.   Permit Modifications: The city may modify a wastewater discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city's POTW, personnel, or the receiving waters;
      5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      7.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit;
      9.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator.
   D.   Permit Conditions: Industrial user wastewater discharge permits shall
be expressly subject to all provisions of this article and all other applicable
regulations, user charges and fees established by the city. Permits shall
contain the following:
      1.   A statement of duration (in no case more than 5 years);
      2.   A statement of nontransferability without, at a minimum, prior
notification to the POTW and provision of a copy of the existing control
mechanism to the new owner or operator;
      3.   Effluent limits based on general pretreatment standards in section
25-82 of this article, categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and
state and local law;
      4.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record
keeping requirements, including an identification of the pollutants to be
monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample type, based on
applicable pretreatment standards, categorical pretreatment standards, local
limits, and state and local law;
      5.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the compliance date beyond applicable
federal deadlines.
   E.   Permit Duration: Permits shall be issued for a period not to exceed
five (5) years. A permit may be issued for a period of less than one year or
may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit
reissuance a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the user's
existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modifications by the city during the term of the permit as limitations or
requirements, as identified in division 2 of this article, sections
25-82 through
25-90, are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his permit at least sixty (60) days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   F.   Permit Transfer: Industrial user wastewater discharge permits are
issued to a specific user for a specific operation. An industrial user
wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a
new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed operation without
the approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with
the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
   G.   Permit Revisions: If an industrial user increases the concentration or
type of pollutants in their discharge over their permitted levels, they must
reapply for a permit to cover the increased discharge.
Discharge from a new source shall require a revision of the user's industrial
user wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-104: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE:
Significant industrial users and categorical users shall submit monitoring
reports and compliance schedule reports as described below:
   A.   Baseline Monitoring Report: Industrial users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards shall submit a baseline report within one hundred eighty
(180) days after the effective date of the standard or one hundred eighty (180)
days after the final administrative decision made upon an industrial user that
the industrial user must comply with the categorical standards, which ever is
later. The report shall contain the following information: applicable
environmental permits, description of operations, flow measurements,
measurements of pollutants, certification by an authorized representative of
the industrial user of whether pretreatment standards are being met on a
consistent basis and, if not, a compliance schedule of additional operation and
maintenance and/or additional pretreatment required to be in compliance.
      1.   Name and address of the facility including the name of the operator
and owners;
      2.   A list of any environmental permits held;
      3.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production, and
standard industrial classification of the operation(s) carried out by the
industrial user. This description should include a schematic diagram which
indicates points of discharge from the regulated process to the POTW;
      4.   The user shall submit information showing the measured average daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from each of the following:
         a.   Regulated process streams; and
         b.   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula if so used;
      5.   a. The user shall identify the pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process.
         b.   In addition, the user shall submit the results of sampling and
analysis identifying the nature and concentration of regulated pollutants in
the discharge from each regulated process. Both daily maximum and average
concentration shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations.
         c.   A minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organics. For all other
pollutants, twenty four (24) hour composite samples must be obtained through
flow proportional composite sampling techniques where feasible. The control
authority may waive flow proportional sampling for any industrial user that
demonstrates that flow proportional sampling is infeasible. In such cases,
samples may be obtained through time proportional sampling techniques or
through a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the industrial user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged.
         d.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile the data necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
         e.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from the
pretreatment facilities, if such exist, or immediately downstream from the
regulated process, if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure
the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula in order to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards.
         f.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 CFR
part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant
in question, or the approval authority determines that part 136 sampling and
analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling
and analysis shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any
other applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures
suggested by the POTW or other parties, approved by the approval authority.
         g.   The control authority may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures.
         h.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place, of
sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      6.   A statement, reviewed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user and certified to by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the industrial user to meet the pretreatment
standards and requirements.
      7.   If additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
industrial user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or operation and
maintenance. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard.
   B.   Compliance Schedule Progress Report: The report required by subsection
A7 of this section shall contain increments of progress (dates) for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the industrial user to meet
pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and
final plans, executing contract for major components, commencing and completion
of construction, etc.). No increment shall exceed nine (9) months. Not later
than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final date
for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a progress report to the city
indicating the status of compliance.
   C.   Contents Of Report: The report on compliance with categorical deadline
shall contain the information listed in subsections A4 to A6 of this section.
The reporting requirement may include the actual production during an
appropriate sampling period for those users subject to allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production. This report shall be submitted within ninety
(90) days of the final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards, or in
the case of a new source, following the commencement of the introduction of
waste discharge into the POTW system.
   D.   Periodic Reports, Categorical Users: Any industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of such
pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after commencement of
the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the city during the months of June
and December, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or
by the city, a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in
the effluent which are limited by such pretreatment standards. In addition,
this report shall include a record of measured or estimated average and maximum
daily flows for the reporting period for discharges from regulated process
streams. At the discretion of the city and in consideration of such factors as
local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the city may agree
to alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
Where the city has imposed mass limitations on industrial users this report
shall indicate the mass of pollutants, regulated by pretreatment standards, in
the discharge from the industrial user.
A certification is required by an authorized representative of the industrial
user of whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and,
if not, a compliance schedule of additional operation and maintenance and/or
additional pretreatment required to be in compliance. Records of all
information resulting from any required monitoring activities must be
maintained for a minimum of three (3) years.
   E.   Notice Of Potential Problems/Slug Loadings: All categorical and
noncategorical industrial users shall notify the POTW immediately of all
discharges, including any slug loadings, that could cause problems to the POTW.
   F.   Periodic Reports, Significant Industrial Users: Periodic compliance
reports are required from significant industrial users not subject to
categorical pretreatment standards. Reports are to be submitted to the city at
least once every six (6) months, describing the nature, concentration and flow
of the pollutants required to be reported. These reports shall be based on
sampling and analysis performed in the period covered by the report, and
performed in accordance with techniques outlined in 40 CFR 136 and as amended
from time to time. The sampling and analysis may be performed by the city in
lieu of the significant noncategorical industrial user. If this is the case,
the significant noncategorical industrial user will not be required to submit
the report.
   G.   Monitoring And Analysis To Demonstrate Compliance: Reports in
subsections A, C, D and F of this section shall contain the results of
samplings and analyses of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and
concentration, or production and mass where requested by the city, of
pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment
standards. The sampling and analysis may be performed by the city in lieu of
the industrial user. If this is the case, the industrial user will not be
required to submit the report. If sampling preformed by the industrial user
indicates a violation, the user shall notify the POTW within twenty four (24)
hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit the results to the city within thirty (30)
days of becoming aware of the violation.
   H.   General Reporting Requirements: All reports required by this section
shall contain the following certification:
I certify under penalty of law this document and all attachments were prepared
under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to
assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons immediately responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
   I.   Signatures: All reports in this section shall be signed as follows:
      1.   By a responsible corporate officer if the industrial user submitting
the reports required by subsections A, C and D of this section is a
corporation.
A "responsible corporate officer" shall mean:
         a.   A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation.
         b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than two hundred fifty (250) persons or
having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding twenty five million dollars
($25,000,000.00), if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated
to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      2.   By a general partner or proprietor if the industrial user submitting
the reports required by subsections A, C and D of this section is a partnership
or sole proprietorship, respectively.
      3.   By a duly authorized representative of the individual designated in
subsection I1 or I2 of this section if:
         a.   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described
in subsections I1 and I2 of this section;
         b.   The authorization specifies either an individual or a person
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
industrial discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager,
operator of a well, or well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for
the company; and
         c.   The written authorization is submitted to the control authority.
      4.   If an authorization under subsection I3 of this section is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
subsection I3 of this section must be submitted to the control authority prior
to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
All sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the administration pursuant to section 304(h) of the act and
contained in 40 CFR part 136 and as amended from time to time or any other test
and sampling procedures approved by the city.
If an industrial user subject to the reporting requirements of subsection D or
F of this section monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the
city using the procedures in subsection G of this section, then the industrial
user shall include the results of this monitoring in their report.
Records of all information resulting from any required monitoring activities
must be maintained for a minimum of three (3) years. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-105: MONITORING FACILITIES:
The city shall require, to be provided and operated at the user's own expense,
monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow measurement of the
building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The monitoring facility should
normally be situated on the user's premises; but the city may, when such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and monitoring
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's requirements and all
applicable local construction standards and specifications. Construction shall
be completed within ninety (90) days following written notification by the
city.
If the monitoring facility is inside the user's fence, there shall be
accommodations to allow access for city personnel, such as a gate secured with
a city lock. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-106: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this article is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
times for the purpose of inspections, sampling, records examination and record
copying or in the performance of any of their duties. Access to the primary
sampling point and meter location shall be unrestricted. All other access shall
be requested in advance. The city, approval authority, and (where the NPDES
state is the approval authority) the EPA shall have the right to set up on the
user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection,
compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements
with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, approval authority and the EPA will be
permitted to enter without delay for purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-107: PRETREATMENT:
Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply with
this article and shall achieve compliance with all federal categorical
pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by the federal
pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a
level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated and maintained at the
user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review and shall be
acceptable to the city before construction of the facility. The review of such
plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this article. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or methods of operation shall be
reported to, and acceptable to, the city prior to the user's initiation of the
changes. These requirements apply to both permitted and nonpermitted industrial
users.
In addition, all nonpermitted industrial users are required to provide notice
of changes in wastewater flow and characteristics to the city so that the city
can review and deny or condition these contribution changes.
The city shall annually publish in the largest daily newspaper published in the
municipality a list of the users which were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment requirements. "Significant noncompliance" is defined as
meeting one or more of the following:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as those in
which sixty six percent (66%), or more, of all of the measurements taken during
a six (6) month period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the
average limit for the same pollutant parameter;
   B.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty three percent (33%), or more, of all of the measurements for each
pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equal or exceed the
product of daily maximum limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum or
longer term average) that the control authority determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
   D.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority under section
25-114 of this article to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in the city's control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date,
required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
   H.   Any other violation or group of violations which the city determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the city's
pretreatment program.
All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request. (Ord.
1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-108: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the city that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user.
When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a report
which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this article, the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, state disposal system
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; however, such portions of a report
shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review
or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
Records of all information resulting from any required monitoring activities
must be maintained for a minimum of three (3) years and available for
inspection and copying by the city, state and EPA. This period of retention may
be extended during the course of unresolved litigation regarding the discharge
from an industrial user or the operation of the POTW pretreatment program or
when requested by the state or EPA. These requirements apply to both permitted
and nonpermitted industrial users. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
DIVISION 5. ENFORCEMENT
25-109: ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM:
Whenever the city finds that any user has violated or is violating this
article, their wastewater discharge permit, or any prohibition, or limitation
of requirements contained herein, the city may take enforcement action to
correct the violation. Enforcement action is through the issuance of notices of
violation, consent orders, compliance orders, cease and desist orders,
emergency suspension, termination of discharge, show cause hearings, legal
action, and administrative fines. The level of enforcement is dependent on the
level and/or frequency of the violation. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-110: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The city may issue a notice of violation to a user when a specific violation of
this article or their wastewater discharge permit has occurred. The notice will
state the nature of the violation and require the user, within thirty (30) days
of the date of the notice, to submit to the city a plan for the satisfactory
correction of the violation.
If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation, the user
must notify the city within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of each
violation. The user shall immediately repeat sampling, have the samples
analyzed and submit results to the city within thirty (30) days of becoming
aware of the violation. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-111: CONSENT ORDERS:
The city may enter into a consent order with any user responsible for
noncompliance of this article. The consent order will contain milestone tasks
and completion dates developed by the user to correct the noncompliance and
prevent future violations. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-112: COMPLIANCE ORDERS:
The city may issue a compliance order to the user to achieve compliance with
this article or with their wastewater discharge permit. The compliance order
shall contain milestone dates for the completion of intermediate tasks,
developed by the city, required for the user to achieve full compliance. (Ord.
1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-113: CEASE AND DESIST ORDER:
The city may issue a cease and desist order requiring the user to halt specific
activities that are releasing pollutants to the POTW in violation of this
article and/or their wastewater discharge permit. The cease and desist order
shall require the user take immediate action to reduce or eliminate the adverse
impact to the POTW caused by its discharge. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-114: EMERGENCY SUSPENSION:
The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater
discharge permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the city,
in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, causes interference to the POTW, or causes the
city to violate any condition of its NPDES permit and/or state waste discharge
requirement permit.
Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or
the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary,
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the city within fifteen (15) days of the date of the occurrence.
(Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-115: TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE:
Any user who violates the following conditions is subject to having their
permit revoked and their discharge terminated:
   A.   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge;
   B.   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operation or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   C.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   D.   Violation of conditions of the wastewater discharge permit.
The user will be notified of the proposed termination and offered an
opportunity to show cause under section 25-117 of this article why the proposed
action should not be taken. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-116: RESERVED:
25-117: SHOW CAUSE HEARING:
   A.   The city manager may order any user who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the city why the
proposed enforcement actions should not be taken. A notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the city
regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause before the
city why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the
hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return
receipt requested) at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   B.   The city may itself conduct a hearing and take the evidence, or may
designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the assigned
department to:
      1.   Issue in the name of the city notices of hearing, requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      2.   Take the evidence; and
      3.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, transcripts and other
evidence, together with recommendations to the city council for action thereon.
   C.   At any hearing held pursuant to this article, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   D.   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances shall have been installed on the
existing treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are
properly operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and
appropriate may be issued. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-118: LEGAL ACTION:
If any person discharges sewage, industrial waste or other waste into the
city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provision of this article,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any other order of the city, the
city attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable
relief. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-119: ADMINISTRATIVE FINES:
   A.   When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may fine
such user in an amount not to exceed the maximum fine allowed under state law.
Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of
monthly or other long term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed
for each day during the period of violation.
   B.   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after the due date, be
assessed the same penalties and interest as are required for delinquencies or
nonpayment of water bills. Water services may be discontinued for nonpayment of
the unpaid charges, fines, and penalties and any unpaid charge, fines,
penalties or interest may be placed as a lien on the real property involved.
   C.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the city to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within thirty (30) days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit the city may convene a show cause hearing on the matter under section 25-
117 of this article. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment,
together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The
city may add the costs of preparing administrative actions, such as notices and
orders to the fine.
   D.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-
1-2003)
DIVISION 6. PENALTY COSTS
25-124: CIVIL PENALTIES:
Any user who is found to have violated a lawful order of the city council or
who wilfully or negligently failed to comply with any provision of this article
and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, may be fined
in accordance with minimum federal penalty guidelines for each offense. Each
day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may
recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter fees and other
expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person found to
have violated this article or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-2003)
25-125: FALSIFYING INFORMATION:
Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this article or wastewater discharge
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this article shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or by both. (Ord. 1636 § A, 7-1-
2003)
CHAPTER 26
WELLS
SECTION:
26-1: Purpose And Intent
26-2: Well Abandonment Upon Municipal Service Connection
26-3: Adoption Of County Well Standards
26-4: Amendments
26-5: Conflicting Provisions
26-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the city by ensuring that the groundwaters of the city
and the Tule Subbasin will not be polluted, contaminated, or used in an
unsustainable manner. (Ord. 1832, 5-17-2016)
26-2: WELL ABANDONMENT UPON MUNICIPAL SERVICE CONNECTION:
   A.   Notwithstanding the county's authority to issue permits for wells, upon
connection of a property to the Porterville municipal water system, a private
well providing service to said property shall be abandoned, or if more than the
subject parcel receives water from the well, the connection from the property
to the well shall be abandoned. Parcels five (5) acres in size or greater are
exempt from this requirement. If a well serves both a structure and a
commercial agricultural crop, the structure shall be disconnected from the
well, but the well can remain in order to provide irrigation water in a manner
consistent with other chapters of this code.
   B.   Where a property owner is already connected to Porterville municipal
water service and maintains an existing and active well as of the date this
chapter is approved, the property owner may continue the beneficial use of the
well until:
      1.   Well failure or lack of performance for greater than twelve (12)
months results in a permanently inactive well, as defined in the Health And
Safety Code; or
      2.   The property owner obtains a building permit for improvements,
construction, or remodeling at a cost of twenty one thousand five hundred sixty
nine dollars ($21,569.00) or more within a two (2) year period. This valuation
is to be adjusted, by resolution, each year to reflect changes in the cost of
construction as indicated in the "Engineering News Record".
   C.   Abandonment of wells shall be completed in conformance with the
standards adopted by the department of water resources and the state water
resources control board, in accordance with the California Water Code. (Ord.
1832, 5-17-2016)
26-3: ADOPTION OF COUNTY WELL STANDARDS:
   A.   The city hereby adopts by reference the county well standards contained
in chapter 7 of the county code and such future county amendments as may be
required to satisfy the minimum requirements contained in the state model well
standards for construction, reconstruction, repair, and destruction of water
wells, cathodic protection wells, and monitoring wells.
   B.   The city hereby authorizes the county environmental health department
to issue permits, collect fees, and to use all appropriate enforcement powers
within the city limits to carry out the provisions of the county well
standards. (Ord. 1832, 5-17-2016)
26-4: AMENDMENTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or construed to forfeit or
otherwise restrict the rights or authority of the city to rescind or amend this
chapter, or to establish local well standards, as the city deems appropriate in
order to protect and address matters of local concern. (Ord. 1832, 5-17-2016)
26-5: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
All ordinances, municipal code sections, resolutions, city council motions, and
all actions of all city boards, commissions and committees in conflict with
this chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 1832, 5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 27
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
27-1: Policy And Purpose
27-2: Definitions
27-3: Applicability
27-4: Average Vehicle Ridership Goal
27-5: Transportation Demand Management Plan Preparation
27-6: Transportation Demand Management Strategies
27-7: Procedure
27-8: Administration
27-9: Fees
27-10: Appeals
27-11: Severability
27-12: Enforcement And Penalties
27-13: Exemptions
27-14: Applicability To Employers Participating In Transportation Management
Association(s) (TMA)
27-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the development of transportation
demand management (TDM) programs at all existing development and at new
development within the city. In order to accomplish this purpose, this chapter
establishes certain requirements to enable the city of Porterville to evaluate
the effectiveness of TDM programs and to chart progress toward achieving the
average vehicle ridership goals established in this chapter. It is also the
purpose of this chapter to require certain employers to designate specified
individuals to ensure the proper coordination of such reporting and
implementation programs.
This chapter is intended to meet the requirements of Government Code section
6508(a) et seq., which mandates the development of a trip reduction and travel
demand element of the congestion management program adopted by the Tulare
County Association of Government/Transportation Planning Agency (TCAG/TPA).
Further, the legislation requires all local agencies to prepare and adopt a TDM
ordinance. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
herein described:
   APCD: San Joaquin Valley unified air pollution control district.
   ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION MODES: Any mode of travel that serves as an
alternative to the single occupant vehicle. This can include all forms of
ridesharing such as carpooling or vanpooling, as well as public transit,
bicycling or walking.
   APPLICATION PROJECT: Any development project that is determined to be a
worksite for the number of employees equal to or greater than the employee
threshold number established by city council.
   AVERAGE VEHICLE RIDERSHIP (AVR): The total number of employees assigned to a
worksite, Monday through Friday, divided by the number of vehicles they drive
from home to work. Credit may be given and the calculation for employee work
trips eliminated during a biweekly no work period due to the use of compressed
work week or telecommuting.
   CARPOOLING: Two (2) or more persons traveling together in a single vehicle.
   CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Porterville or his/her duly
authorized designee.
   COMMUTE: A home to work or work to home trip.
   COMMUTE ALTERNATIVES: Any form of commute transportation except by single
occupancy vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine.
   COMMUTE COORDINATOR: An employee or contractor of an employer, whose
responsibility is the day to day management of any transportation demand
management program.
   COMPRESSED WORK WEEK: A work schedule for an employee which eliminates at
least one round trip commute biweekly. For example, forty (40) hours of work in
four (4) 10-hour days or a work plan that allows one day off every other week,
known as the "9/80 plan".
   DESIGNEE(S): Any private entity, governmental agency or city employee
designated by the city to administer all or any of the provisions of this
chapter except those related to the bringing of enforcement actions under this
chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: Any nonresidential or mixed use project which requires
discretionary approval by the city.
   DIRECTOR: The public works director or designee for the city of Porterville.
   EMPLOYEE: One who is assigned to the designated worksite. An employee who
works in the service of an employer for either wages or salary, as a contract
employee under the direction of the worksite employer or through a temporary
service agency during a period of more than ninety (90) days.
   EMPLOYEE THRESHOLD: The number of employees as defined in section 27-3 of
this chapter and set by resolution of the city council that determines when the
terms of this chapter apply to an employer.
   EMPLOYER: Any public or private employer, including the city of Porterville,
which has a worksite in the city. For purposes of this chapter, the annual
average number of full time employees on the day shift at the designated
worksite shall determine the size of the employer.
   FLEXIBLE WORK HOURS: A variation of an employee's work hours to provide an
incentive for the employer to use commute alternatives.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS: Plans submitted to the city as part of an application for
a building permit for new nonresidential development or expansion of existing
or change of use (as defined by the uniform building code) of any
nonresidential building facility.
   MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT: The development of a parcel(s) or structures(s) with
two (2) or more different land uses such as, but not limited to, a combination
of limited residential, office, commercial retail, public or entertainment in a
single or physically integrated group of structures.
   PEAK PERIOD: The hours from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday through
Friday, excluding federal holidays. Peak periods shall mean employees' commute
trips to a worksite where the employees' workday begins.
   PERSON: An individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation,
partnership, association or other business entity, city, county, district, the
state, department or agency thereof, or the United States, to the extent
authorized by law.
   SINGLE OCCUPANCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle occupied by one employee for
commute purposes.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan of development that is subject to public
hearing before the city council or project review committee.
   TELECOMMUTING: A system of either working at home or at an off site
workstation with computer facilities that link to the worksite.
   TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM): The provision of information,
assistance, incentives or other measures designed to meet an average vehicle
ridership (AVR) and which is intended to reduce the number of vehicles with
internal combustion engines driven on streets or highways to the worksite.
   TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (TMA): An organization through which
developers, employers and/or local governments cooperate in designing,
implementing or evaluating a TDM program.
   TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM MANAGEMENT (TSM): Low cost improvements to the
transportation system (roads and transit) which increase the operational
efficiency and/or capacity of the system.
   TRIP REDUCTION: Reducing the number of work related trips on streets or
highways taken during workweek hours in single occupancy vehicles powered by
internal combustion engines.
   VANPOOL: A van occupied by five (5) or more persons traveling together.
   WORKSITE: A building or group of buildings which are in actual physical
contact or separated solely by a private roadway or easement and which are
owned and operated by an employer. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992; Ord. 1614 § 3,
9-17-2002)
27-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all existing employers (both public and private)
within the city with the employee threshold number or more employees, defined
by resolution of the city council, or those existing employers which reach the
employee threshold, and all new development projects that are estimated to
generate, either in the project itself or as a result of adding the project to
an existing development, the employment of the employee threshold number or
more persons, as determined by using the methodology set forth in subsection B
of this section.
   A.   For purposes of determining whether an existing development is subject
to this chapter, the number of employees will be based on official payroll
records and shall be calculated on the annual average number of full time
employees.
   B.   For purposes of determining whether a new development project is
subject to this chapter, the total number of employees which the project is
estimated to generate will be determined by the city of Porterville as follows:
      1.   Employment projections developed by the project applicant, subject
to approval by the city engineer or responsible staff; or
      2.   Employment projections developed by the city engineer or responsible
staff using the latest institute of transportation engineer's "Trip Generation
Manual"; or
      3.   In the case of a multiuse development, the employment projection
shall be calculated on a case by case basis based upon the proportion of
development devoted to each type of use.
      4.   The employment projections for land uses not identified above shall
be determined pursuant to subsection B1 of this section.
   C.   The employer shall be responsible for complying with the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-4: AVERAGE VEHICLE RIDERSHIP GOAL:
An average vehicle ridership goal shall be established by a resolution of the
city council for each employer participating in this program and is intended to
measure progress toward a reduction in vehicle trips to the worksite. (Ord.
1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-5: TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT PLAN PREPARATION:
All employers both existing and proposed who meet the employee threshold
criteria shall be responsible for the preparation and submittal of a
transportation demand management plan. The plan shall be prepared to meet the
average vehicle ridership goal. The plan shall include the following sections:
   A.   Employee profile of the business.
   B.   Existing average vehicle ridership.
   C.   Transportation demand management strategies selected for
implementation.
   D.   Implementation timetable.
   E.   Monitoring program.
   F.   Contact person or commute coordinator. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-6: TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES:
The following strategies should be considered when developing employer based
transportation demand management plans or as part of the design of new projects
or the remodeling of existing development:
   A.   Rideshare Programs: The establishment of a carpool/vanpool program for
the employer (if practical) or the participation in an existing carpool/vanpool
matching service. The designation of parking spaces, located as close as is
practical to each entrance or at other preferential locations within the
employee parking area, for use by carpool and vanpool vehicles can be part of
this program. These spaces, may be reserved and designated for carpool/vanpool
parking by marking such spaces "carpool only".
   B.   Park And Ride Lots: The establishment of park and ride lots on or near
the development project site or at satellite locations should be coordinated
with public transit routing or carpool/vanpool services.
   C.   Bicycle Programs: Bicycle racks may be provided for use by employees
who commute to the site by bicycle. The bicycle parking area may be established
in a secure location and be in close proximity to employee entrances. Provision
of connections to existing and planned on street and off street bike trails may
also be incorporated into the site plans. Development projects may also wish to
include shower facilities into their facility design.
   D.   Transit Service Programs: Transit waiting shelters, including bus
pullouts, bus pads and right of way for bus stops may be provided for
development projects located along established or proposed bus routes. The
applicability of this provision shall be determined in conformance with
standard traffic engineering principles including, but not limited to, the
frequency and relative impact of blocked traffic due to stopped buses and the
level of transit ridership at the location. Transit information services or
employer based transit pass programs may also be considered as strategies.
   E.   Alternate Work Schedules: Employers may wish to establish flexible work
hours, compressed workweeks or staggered work schedules which move commute
trips out of the peak period (7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. to 6:00
P.M.).
   F.   Pedestrian Access: Sidewalks and other paved pathways may be provided
on site to connect off site external pedestrian circulation systems (planned or
existing) to the building site. Sidewalk locations may integrate existing and
planned waiting shelters with building entrance(s).
   G.   Joint Access And Shared Parking: For applicable developments designed
as a worksite, provision of joint access and shared parking across multiple
parcels may be incorporated into project design to facilitate integration of
TDM strategies.
   H.   Telecommunications: The employer's use of telecommunications,
teleconferencing and telecommuting can be made a part of the strategy as it
relates to the reduction in peak period trips to the worksite.
   I.   Commuter Information: An area within the facility may be provided to
disseminate information on alternative transportation modes. This area shall be
centrally located and accessible to all employees. The space shall be of
sufficient size to provide information on alternative transportation modes,
such as current maps, routes and schedules for public transit.
   J.   On Site Support Facilities: Mixed use developments which include such
services as daycare, lunchrooms/cafeterias, banks, restaurants and retail uses.
(Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-7: PROCEDURE:
   A.   All existing employers which are subject to the provisions of this
chapter shall submit a transportation demand management plan prepared in
conformance with the city's guidelines by July 1, 1993.
   B.   Any existing employer which attains the employee threshold contemplated
under this chapter shall be required to submit a transportation demand
management plan within twelve (12) months of reaching the employee threshold.
   C.   Any new development project which begins business at or above the
employee threshold established by resolution of the city council as determined
under subsection
27-3B of this chapter shall submit a transportation demand management plan for
review at the time an application for a discretionary permit is submitted.
   D.   An employer or new development project submitting a transportation
demand management plan under this chapter shall submit two (2) copies of the
plan to the city.
   E.   All transportation demand management plans shall be reviewed by the
city engineer or his designated representative. All employers with an approved
transportation demand management plan shall make annual reports to the city of
Porterville on the success of their efforts at achieving the average vehicle
ridership goal. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-8: ADMINISTRATION:
This chapter shall be implemented and enforced in accordance with customary
methods and procedures of the city of Porterville regarding developments. (Ord.
1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-9: FEES:
For the purposes of meeting its obligations under this chapter, the city of
Porterville may impose on each transportation demand management plan which is
submitted a fee, as set by resolution of the city council, for the cost of
processing and reviewing the plan. A separate fee may be collected for the
review of the annual report. This annual fee shall also be set by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-10: APPEALS:
An employer may, within ten (10) days following the date of a decision made by
the city engineer pursuant to this chapter, appeal said decision to the
director. The appeal shall be in writing and shall set forth the terms upon
which the appeal is based and state specifically the error or abuse of
discretion or lack of evidence to support said decision. If said employer is
still not satisfied by the decision of the director he shall submit in writing
an appeal to city council. The council shall consider and decide all issues
raised in the appeal, and may affirm, reverse or modify the decision appealed
to it. The decision of the council shall be final. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-11: SEVERABILITY:
The city council hereby declares that should any section, paragraph, sentence
or word of this chapter, hereby adopted, be declared for any reason to be
invalid, it is the intent of the city council that it would have passed all
other portions of this chapter independent of any such portion as may be
declared invalid. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-12: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
For the purpose of ensuring that applicable developments comply with the
provisions of this chapter, city shall, following written notice to the
employer, initiate enforcement action(s) against the employer which may
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Withholding the issuance of a building permit or certificate of use and
occupancy.
   B.   Issuance of a stop work order.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate any
provision or to fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter or
failing to comply with any of its requirements shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each such person, firm or
corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day during
which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed,
continued or permitted by such person, firm or corporation, and shall be
punishable therefor as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 1482 § 1, 12-15-
1992)
27-13: EXEMPTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, the following uses and
activities shall be specifically exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Development projects expected to employ fewer than the employee
threshold number.
   B.   Temporary construction activities on any affected project, including
activities performed by engineers, architects, contract subcontractors and
construction workers.
   C.   Other temporary activities, as defined in this code, or as authorized
by the city when such temporary activities shall discontinue at the end of the
designated time period.
   D.   Employers that can show that the implementation of the various
transportation demand management strategies will not achieve the goals of
transportation demand management, air quality and congestion management. (Ord.
1482 § 1, 12-15-1992)
27-14: APPLICABILITY TO EMPLOYERS PARTICIPATING IN TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT
ASSOCIATION(S) (TMA):
The requirements of this chapter do not apply individually to members of a
local transportation management association if the association is in compliance
with all sections of this chapter on behalf of its members. Should an employer
no longer participate in a transportation management association, this chapter
shall be applicable to his/her development immediately. As a result, the
affected employer must comply with all sections of this chapter. (Ord. 1482 §
1, 12-15-1992)
 
