CITY CODE
of
REEDLEY, CALIFORNIA
2007
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-011, passed 12-17-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Reedley, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2024-011, passed December 17, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-009
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF REEDLEY AMENDING CHAPTER 4 OF
TITLE 9 OF THE REEDLEY MUNICIPAL CODE CONCERNING BUILDING REGULATIONS OF
LIGHTING FIXTURES
 
The City Council of the City of Reedley does hereby ordain as follows:
 
SECTION 1. Section 9-4-4(E) of the Reedley Municipal Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
 
9-4-4: REAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS AND UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS:
 
E.   Lighting. All exterior light fixtures shall be maintained in good working
order free of broken lamps, lenses, and light bulbs. Furthermore, the
structural integrity of all supporting poles and mounting fixtures shall be
maintained. All insulation and connections shall be intact and free of exposed
wire. Outdoor lighting fixtures shall be directed downward or toward onsite
structures, fully shielded, and maintained in order to prevent glare, light
trespass, and light pollution and away from adjoining properties and public
rights-of-way, so that no light fixture directly illuminates an area outside of
the property it is installed on. Lighting fixtures operated in a manner as to
constitute a hazard or danger to persons or to obstruct pedestrian and
vehicular travel shall be prohibited.
 
SECTION 2. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this chapter. The council hereby declares that it would
have passed this chapter and adopted this chapter and each section, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
 
SECTION 3. This Ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days from the date of
its adoption.
 
SECTION 4. The City Clerk is directed to cause this ordinance or a summary of
this ordinance to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation
published and circulated within the City of Reedley, within fifteen (15) days
after its adoption. If a summary of the ordinance is published, the City Clerk
shall cause a certified copy of the full text of the proposed ordinance to be
posted in the office of the City Clerk at least five (5) days prior to the
Council meeting at which the ordinance is adopted and again after the meeting
at which the ordinance is adopted. The summary shall be approved by the City
Attorney.
 
///
 
///
ATTEST:
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 2024-009 was introduced and
given first reading at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Reedley held on October 22, 2024, and was thereafter duly adopted at a regular
meeting of said City Council held on November 12, 2024, by the following vote:
 
 
 
AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:
 
                        _______________________
                        Anita Betancourt, Mayor
                        City of Reedley
 
 
ATTEST:
___________________________
Ruthie Greenwood, City Clerk
City of Reedley
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-002
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF REEDLEY AMENDING SECTIONS 5-3-
20, 5-3-22, AND 5-3-27 OF CHAPTER 3 OF TITLE 5 OF THE REEDLEY MUNICIPAL CODE
CONCERNING ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
 
The City Council of the City of Reedley does hereby ordain as follows:
 
SECTION 1. Section 5-3-20 of the Reedley Municipal Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
 
   5-3-20: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
 
A.   The owner or person(s) entitled to the control of any animal, which is
impounded, may at any time prior to the lawful disposal of the animal redeem
the animal by paying all applicable fees.
 
B.   Licensing and Microchipping Impounded Animals.
1.   The poundmaster shall not release an unlicensed animal to its owner, or
adopt or foster an unlicensed animal, to any person who resides in the City,
unless the owner or purchaser, respectively, secures the required license, and
pays any fees and penalties required. The poundmaster shall not release an
animal from the Reedley Animal Shelter that is not microchipped to its owner,
or transfer ownership of an animal to any person until a microchip has been
implanted in the animal. The owner of the animal is solely responsible for all
costs associated with microchip implantation.
 
2.   In order to assist with the identification of animals and reunification in
the event an animal is lost or abandoned, the poundmaster shall implant any
animal to be released from the Reedley Animal Shelter with a microchip. The
cost of microchipping will be the responsibility of the owner or adopter of any
animal to be released. The fees for microchipping will be set forth by a
resolution of the City Council.
 
3.   Spay/Neuter Compliance for Shelter Animals.
A spay or neuter recommendation by the poundmaster will be made upon the
release of any unaltered dog or cat from the Reedley Animal Shelter pursuant to
Food and Agriculture Code section 30503. A spay/neuter fee may be deposited by
owner of the animal to the City, for assistance by the Animal Control Officer
to spay/neuter the animal, including transportation to a licensed veterinarian.
The fee will be pursuant to a resolution set forth by the City Council.
 
To further help reduce the pet overpopulation problem, any animal released from
the City animal shelter shall be required to be spayed or neutered within
thirty (30) days of release. Proof of spay/neuter must be provided to the
poundmaster within thirty (30) days of animal release from the shelter. If no
proof is provided, owner will be required to purchase and maintain a breeder
permit issued by the poundmaster.
 
 
SECTION 2. Section 5-3-22, subdivision (B) of the Reedley Municipal Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:
 
5-3-22: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; ABDANDONMENT:
 
B.   If any unlicensed dog, or any dog bearing no license tag, is taken and
impounded under the provisions of this chapter, and is not redeemed within five
(5) days of impoundment, the dog may be turned over to a rescue organization
for adoption or fostering. If rescue, adoption or fostering efforts have been
exhausted, or are not a viable or safe option, the poundmaster may humanely
euthanize such dog.
 
SECTION 3. Section 5-3-27 of the Reedley Municipal Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
 
   5-3-27: COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
 
A.   Breeder/Kennel Permit Regulations.
 
1.   Purpose of Regulations.
 
The City Council finds and declares that there exists a pet overpopulation
problem in the City of Reedley. Overpopulation has resulted in a threat to
public health and safety, inhumane treatment of animals, mass euthanasia of
dogs and cats at local animal shelters, and escalating costs for animal care
and control. The City Council further finds that uncontrolled breeding is a
contributing cause to this problem. In part, the solution is determined to be
that all dogs, four (4) months of age and older, be licensed and spayed and
neutered, unless the owners purchase the appropriated license/permit for the
privilege of maintaining the animal intact and allowing it to breed. The City
Council also finds that an increase in the license fee for unaltered dogs will
encourage dog owners to spay/neuter their dog(s) in order to help alleviate the
City’s pet overpopulation problem.
 
2.   Kennel/Breeder Permit Process.
 
An application for all kennel or breeder permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be filed with the poundmaster, on a prescribed form. Permit applications will
be reviewed, and approved or denied within thirty (30) days of submitting the
application. Fees charged for these permits shall be set annually by a
resolution of the City Council as recommended by the poundmaster. The kennel
and breeder permits shall be issued for the calendar year or any part thereof
and are effective from January 1st of each year and expire on December 31st of
that same year. The full amount of the permit fee shall be paid even though the
permit is issued for only a portion of a permit year. Renewal and payment of
the permit is due and payable on January 1st of each year. The poundmaster
shall collect a delinquent penalty in an amount equal to the amount as
established for license penalties.
 
The failure to obtain the appropriate permit is punishable as an infraction as
set forth herein. Any or all of the permits within this code may be immediately
suspended for any violations of the conditions for commercial animal
establishments, or for any health or safety reasons as determined by the
poundmaster, as prescribed in this section.
 
B.   Kennel Permit.
 
1.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to own, maintain, or harbor, any more
than a total of six (6) dogs and/or cats combined within the City limits
without first obtaining a kennel permit (or breeder permit for animals less
than four (4) months in age) from the poundmaster. The issuance of the permit
shall be at the discretion of the poundmaster who shall take into consideration
the manner in which the animals are housed, sanitation and noise factors, as
well as animal control regulations. The kennel permit may also require the
payment of a separate kennel permit fee at the rate set by City Council. Kennel
permits shall contain the same requirements as commercial establishments for
the health and safety of animals and the general public.
 
2.   All permitted kennels within the City limits shall be subject to
inspection by the poundmaster, or his or her designee, upon request or safety
as needed. The maximum number of animals permitted pursuant to any kennel
permit is ten (10) dogs or cats four (4) months of age or older. If any kennel
is found to be in violation of the maximum number of animals allowed, the
kennel permit may be revoked or suspended by the poundmaster.
 
3.   Non-Compliance Penalties:
i.   First violation; a penalty not to exceed one hundred dollars, ($100) per
animal covered under the issued kennel permit.
ii.   Second violation; a penalty not to exceed three hundred dollars ($200)
per animal covered under the issued kennel permit.
iii.   Kennel permit will be revoked, and the permit holder will be banned from
holding a kennel permit for a period of thirty-six (36) months.
 
C.   Breeder Permit.
 
1.   It is unlawful for any person to breed or allow any animal to be bred,
resulting in any number of litters of dogs and/or cats for sale or profit, or
to advertise for the sale/adoption of such animals, without first obtaining a
breeder permit.
2.   The fees for a breeder permit shall be set by a resolution of the City
Council and must be submitted to the poundmaster for the breeding of dogs or
cats that produce one (1) or more litters in a year, as well as advertising for
the sale of dogs and cats within the City limits.
 
3.   Breeding permit requirements are as follows:
i.   No offspring can be sold/adopted until eight (8) weeks of age;
ii.   No offspring can be sold/adopted until vaccinated against common
diseases;
iii.   The breeder permit holder must display the permit number when
advertising the animals for sale/adoption.
 
4.   Non-Compliance Penalties
i.   First violation: infraction punishable by a fine of up to $100, to be
issued through an Administrative Citation.
ii.   Second violation: If the owner/custodian fails to comply and correct the
cause of the first violation within (30) days, it will be considered a second
violation. Any violation within one (1) year of a first violation will be
considered a second violation. A second violation is considered an infraction
punishable by a fine of up to $200, to be issued through an Administrative
Citation.
iii.   A breeder permit will be revoked if a second violation occurs within
twenty-four (24) months of issuance of original breeder permit.
iv.   Permit holder will be banned from holding a valid breeder permit if a
second violation occurs.
 
5.   Breeder advertising.
It is unlawful for any person to advertise for the sale/adoption of a litter of
dogs or cats in the city without including in the advertisement a city breeder
permit number. A litter shall be defined as two or more offspring from the same
female dog or cat. Failure to properly advertise the sale of a litter of dogs
or cats will result in the suspension or revocation of a valid breeder permit.
 
6.   Reporting of Dog/Cat Sale Records
Every commercial animal establishment holder of a breeder permit, holder of a
kennel permit and others who sell/adopt animals for consideration must keep
permanent records of all dogs/cats sold/adopted and provide such information
upon the sale of any animal to the Poundmaster for licensing and confirmation
of rabies vaccination.
 
 
SECTION 4.
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this chapter. The council hereby declares that it would have passed
this chapter and adopted this chapter and each section, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
 
SECTION 5.
This Ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days from the date of its
adoption.
 
SECTION 6.
The City Clerk is directed to cause this ordinance or a summary of this
ordinance to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation published
and circulated within the City of Reedley, within fifteen (15) days after its
adoption. If a summary of the ordinance is published, the City Clerk shall
cause a certified copy of the full text of the proposed ordinance to be posted
in the office of the City Clerk at least five (5) days prior to the Council
meeting at which the ordinance is adopted and again after the meeting at which
the ordinance is adopted. The summary shall be approved by the City Attorney.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 2025-002 was introduced and
given first reading at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Reedley held on May 13, 2025, and was thereafter duly adopted at a regular
meeting of said City Council held on May 27, 2025, by the following vote:
 
 
 
AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:
 
                        _______________________
                        Matthew Tuttle, Mayor
                        City of Reedley
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
 
___________________________
Ruthie Greenwood, City Clerk
City of Reedley
 
 
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
REEDLEY CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Liability Of Officers And Employees
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the governing body this city code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Reedley, to be
known and cited as the REEDLEY CITY CODE. Any reference made to the number of
any section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of
the same under its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general
penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when
reference is made to this city code by title in any legal document 1 . (1964
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. §§ 50022.1 – 50022.8.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent
effect. (1964 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this city code. (1964 Code)
1-1-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
When the provisions of any section of this city code prohibit the commission of
an act, not only the person actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the
directed act, but also the employer and all other persons concerned with or in
aiding or abetting the said person shall be guilty of the offense described and
liable to the penalty set forth. (1964 Code; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still
in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and all special ordinances. (1964 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by
virtue of the preceding section, excepting as this city code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this city code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect of such provisions only.
(1964 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the city herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or
provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (1964
Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
Unless otherwise specifically defined in this code, terms used in this code
shall have the meanings prescribed by California law for the same terms. In the
construction of this code, and of all ordinances, the rules and definitions set
out in this chapter shall be observed, unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and city council. The rules
of construction and definitions set out herein shall not be applied to any
section of this code which shall contain any express provision excluding such
construction, or where the subject matter or context of such section may be
repugnant thereto.
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision
imposed by this code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or
regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city official to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      5.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      6.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      7.   Officers: Whenever any officer is referred to by title, such as
"recorder", "clerk", "treasurer", etc., such reference shall be construed as if
followed by the words "of the city of Reedley".
      8.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      9.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
city has been changed in the context of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not
intended to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(2007 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Reedley.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Reedley.
CITY SEAL: The common seal of the city of Reedley shall be argent, upon which
shall be engraved the arms of the state of California, surrounded by the
inscription, "City of Reedley, Incorporated Feb. 18, 1913".
CODE: This city code.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law 1 .
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE AND NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community 2 .
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Shall include the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or any other
form of association or organization.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1, 2-25-1913; Ord.
366, 11-3-1964; 2007 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Pen.C. § 17(b).
2 2. Pen.C. § 370.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such chapters, sections or subsections, nor be deemed to
govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of
the provisions of any division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so
provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the
catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Violation; Misdemeanor
1-4-2: Failure To Pay Fine
1-4-1: VIOLATION; MISDEMEANOR:
Except as otherwise specifically provided by state law or this code, any
person, firm, corporation or organization violating any of the provisions or
failing to comply with any of the requirements of this code or any city
ordinance, including, but not limited to, any violation of the provisions of
titles 9, 10, 11 and 12 of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punishable for each offense by:
   A.   A fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); or
   B.   A sentence not exceeding six (6) months' imprisonment in the Fresno
County jail; or
   C.   Both subsections A and B of this section.
Any change in the state law for misdemeanor penalties shall automatically apply
to the punishment set forth in this section. For good cause shown, and in
accordance with the provisions of law, the city attorney may elect
alternatively to prosecute any such offense as an infraction. Except as
otherwise provided by law, all provisions of law or ordinance relating to
misdemeanors shall apply to any such infraction.
Notwithstanding any provision of this code, when a person under the age of
eighteen (18) years is charged with a violation of this code and a peace
officer issues to that minor a notice to appear, the charge shall be deemed an
infraction unless the minor requests that a petition be filed under Welfare and
Institutions Code section 601 or 602. The amount of the fine imposed in such
case shall be set by the court. (Ord. 97-01, 2-25-1997)
1-4-2: FAILURE TO PAY FINE:
It shall be competent for the court convicting any person charged with
violating or noncompliance with any provisions of this code to enter an
alternative judgment imposing a fine, and on failure to pay the same,
imprisonment of such person one day for each five dollars ($5.00) of such fine.
(Ord. 11; amd. 1964 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings Of City Council
1-5-2: Agenda
1-5-3: Roll Call And Quorum
1-5-4: Minutes Of City Council Meetings
1-5-5: Rules Addressing City Council
1-5-6: Procedural Rules
1-5-7: Mayor As Presiding Officer
1-5-8: Voting
1-5-9: City Council Compensation
1-5-10: Election
1-5-11: Term Of Office
1-5-1: MEETINGS OF CITY COUNCIL:
The regular meetings of the city council shall be held at the city hall council
chambers on the second and fourth Tuesdays of each month, at the hour of seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M.; provided, that if any regular meeting shall fall on a
holiday, Christmas Eve or New Year's Eve, then such meeting shall be canceled,
unless the city council: a) at a previous meeting, shall by order entered in
its minutes, direct that a meeting shall be held; or b) a special meeting is
called. (Ord. 97-04, 4-8-1997)
1-5-2: AGENDA:
The agenda shall be prepared by the city manager, in consultation with the
mayor. The city manager shall deliver a copy of the agenda for each meeting to
each council member as far in advance of the meeting as time will permit. (Ord.
728, 12-12-1989)
1-5-3: ROLL CALL AND QUORUM:
   A.   Roll Call: Before proceeding with the business of the city council, the
city clerk or his deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of
those present shall be entered in the minutes.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of all the members elected to the city council shall
constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting of the city council. When
there is no quorum, the mayor, mayor pro tempore or any member of the city
council shall adjourn such meeting or, if no member of the city council is
present, the city clerk shall adjourn the meeting. (Ord. 728, 12-12-1989)
1-5-4: MINUTES OF CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Unless a reading of the minutes of a city council meeting is requested
by a member of the city council, such minutes may be approved without a reading
if the city manager has previously furnished each member with a copy thereof.
   B.   As soon as possible after each city council meeting, the city manager
shall send typewritten copies of the minutes of such meeting to each member of
the city council at his residence or such other place as he may designate.
Thereafter, the reading of such minutes at any following meeting may be
dispensed with, and they shall be approved without any further proceeding.
Their approval shall be authenticated by the signature of the presiding
officer, attested by the city clerk. (Ord. 728, 12-12-1989)
1-5-5: RULES ADDRESSING CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Procedures And Time: Each person addressing the city council shall step
up and shall give his name and address in an audible tone of voice for the
record and shall limit his address to three (3) minutes unless otherwise
prescribed by the presiding officer. All remarks shall be addressed to the city
council as a body and not to any member thereof. No person other than the city
council and/or staff and the person having the floor shall be permitted to
enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member of the city
council, without the permission of the presiding officer. No question shall be
asked a council member or any city official present except through the
presiding officer.
   B.   Disruption Of Meetings: Any person in the audience who uses profane
language at a city council meeting, or language tending to bring the city
council or any of its members into contempt, or any person who persistently
interrupts the proceedings of the city council, or refuses to keep quiet or
take his seat when ordered to do so by the presiding officer, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine or by imprisonment as prescribed in the state law for misdemeanors. Upon
instructions of the presiding officer, it shall be the duty of any police
officer present to place such person under arrest or remove the person from the
city council chambers. (Ord. 728, 12-12-1989)
1-5-6: PROCEDURAL RULES:
The following procedural rules shall be observed at all meetings of the city
council:
   A.   Except in those cases for which the city council has established rules
to the contrary, reference shall be had to "Robert's Rules Of Order".
   B.   The mayor, mayor pro tempore or such other member of the city council
as may be presiding, may move, second and debate as are by these rules imposed
on all members and shall not be deprived of any of the rights and privileges of
a councilmember by reason of his acting as the presiding officer.
   C.   Every member desiring to speak shall address the chair, and, upon
recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine himself to the question
under debate, avoiding all personalities and indecorous language.
   D.   A member once recognized, shall not be interrupted when speaking unless
it be to call him to order, or as herein otherwise provided. If a member, while
speaking, be called to order, he shall cease speaking until the question of
order be determined, and, if in order, he shall be permitted to proceed.
   E.   The councilmember moving the adoption of an ordinance or resolution
shall have the privilege of closing the debate. (Ord. 728, 12-12-1989)
1-5-7: MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER:
   A.   Presiding Officer: The mayor of the city council or, in his absence,
the mayor pro tempore, shall take the chair precisely at the hour appointed for
the meeting, and shall immediately call the city council to order. In the
absence of the mayor, and the mayor pro tempore, the city clerk, or his deputy,
shall call the city council to order, whereupon a temporary chair shall be
elected by the members of the city council present. Upon the arrival of the
mayor or mayor pro tempore, the temporary chair shall immediately relinquish
the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately before the city
council.
   B.   Duties: The presiding officer shall preserve order at all meetings of
the city council. He shall state every question coming before the city council,
announce the decision of the city council on all subjects and decide all
questions of order, subject, however, to an appeal to the city council, in
which event a majority vote of the city council shall govern and conclusively
determine such question of order. (Ord. 728, 12-12-1989)
1-5-8: VOTING:
When a vote on any motion is called for, the mayor or other presiding officer
may call for a voice vote and may determine whether any such motion carried or
failed; any member of the city council, however, may call for a roll call vote
on any motion. All votes on motions for passage of any ordinance or resolution
shall be called for by the city clerk by calling the name of each member
present including the mayor; each member shall be recorded as voting "aye"
unless when his name is called he votes "no" or declares he is not voting.
Unless a member of the city council states he is not voting because of a
personal interest in the subject matter under discussion, his silence shall be
recorded as an affirmative vote. (Ord. 728, 12-12-1989)
1-5-9: CITY COUNCIL COMPENSATION:
   A.   Monthly Compensation. Each member of the city council shall receive, as
salary, the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month, as prescribed in
the Government Code, which shall be payable at the same time and in the same
manner as the salaries are paid to other officers and employees of the city.
The council members may receive such benefits for retirement, health and
welfare and federal social security to those received by other employees, as
the city council may determine by resolution.
   B.   Expense Reimbursement 2 : The salaries prescribed herein are and shall
be exclusive of any amounts payable to each member of the city council as
reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses incurred by him in the
performance of official duties for the city. (Ord. 728, 12-12-1989; amd. Ord.
2024-010, 11-12-2024)
 
Notes
2 2. Gov.C. § 36514.5.
1-5-10: ELECTION:
Commencing with the regular municipal election in 2004 and at each regular
municipal election thereafter until changed in accordance with law, members of
the city council shall be elected "from districts" in five (5) districts. The
term "from districts" means the election of members of the legislative body who
are residents of the district from which they are elected by the voters of the
entire city. (Ord. 2002-04, 7-23-2002)
1-5-11: TERM OF OFFICE:
At the regular municipal election in 2004, city council members for districts
1, 3 and 5 shall be elected and shall hold office for four (4) years. At the
regular municipal election in 2006, the city council members for districts 2
and 4 shall be elected and shall hold office for four (4) years. (Ord. 2002-04,
7-23-2002)
ARTICLE A.  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-5A-1: District Establishment
1-5A-2: Boundaries
1-5A-3: Future District Provisions
1-5A-1: DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT:
The districts have approximately equal populations, and meet the city council's
goals of respecting communities of interest represented by the geographic areas
of the city (historic downtown, northern neighborhoods, eastside neighborhoods,
and south-westside neighborhoods), using major thoroughfares and city streets
as boundaries, achieving reasonable compactness and contiguity of territory,
and observing the mandates of the United States constitution, the federal
voting rights act, and the constitution and laws of the state of California.
(Ord. 2012-001, 4-10-2012)
1-5A-2: BOUNDARIES:
Following each federal decennial census, the Council shall, by resolution,
adopt boundaries for all of the Council districts of the City so that the
Council districts shall be substantially equal in population as required by the
United States Constitution and California elections Code section 21500, et
seq., as may be amended. (Ord. 2012-001, 4-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 1-24-
2023)
1-5A-3: FUTURE DISTRICT PROVISIONS:
The term of office of a council member who has been elected and whose term of
office has not expired shall not be affected by establishing district
boundaries or by any change in the boundaries of the district from which he or
she is elected. (Ord. 2002-04, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 6
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6-1: Office Created
1-6-2: Residence
1-6-3: Eligibility
1-6-4: Bond
1-6-5: Acting City Manager
1-6-6: Compensation
1-6-7: Powers And Duties
1-6-7-1: Law Enforcement
1-6-7-2: Authority Over Employees
1-6-7-3: Power Of Appointment And Removal
1-6-7-4: Administrative Reorganization Of Offices
1-6-7-5: Ordinances
1-6-7-6: Attendance At Council Meetings
1-6-7-7: Budget
1-6-7-8: Expenditure Control And Purchasing
1-6-7-9: Investigations And Complaints
1-6-7-10: Public Buildings
1-6-7-11: Additional Duties
1-6-8: Internal Relations
1-6-8-1: Council/Manager Relations
1-6-8-2: Departmental Cooperation
1-6-8-3: Attendance At Commission Meetings
1-6-9: Removal Procedure
1-6-9-1: Removal Of City Manager
1-6-9-2: Hearing
1-6-9-3: Suspension Pending Hearing
1-6-9-4: Discretion Of City Council
1-6-9-5: Limitation On Removal
1-6-9-6: Wilful Misconduct, Determination
1-6-10: Agreements On Employment
1-6-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of the city manager is hereby created and established. The city
manager shall be appointed by the city council wholly on the basis of his
administrative and executive ability and qualifications and shall hold office
for and during the pleasure of the city council. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-2: RESIDENCE:
Residence in the city at the time of appointment of a city manager shall not be
required as a condition of the appointment, but the city manager must become a
resident of the city within one hundred eighty (180) days after reporting for
work unless the city council approves his residence outside the city. (Ord.
612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-3: ELIGIBILITY:
No member of the city council shall be eligible for appointment as city manager
until one year has elapsed after such council member shall have ceased to be a
member of the city council. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-4: BOND:
The faithful performance of the duties imposed upon the city manager or acting
city manager shall be insured at all times by a crime insurance policy that
covers at a minimum, employee theft, including faithful performance of duty,
forgery or alteration, theft of money, securities, or other property, computer
fraud, and funds transfer fraud. (Ord. 2013-002, 5-14-2013)
1-6-5: ACTING CITY MANAGER:
The assistant city manager shall serve as manager pro tempore during any
temporary absence or disability of the city manager. In the event there is no
assistant city manager, the city manager, by filing a written notice with the
city clerk, shall designate a qualified city employee to exercise the power to
perform the duties of city manager during his temporary absence or disability.
In the event the city manager's absence or disability extends over a one month
period, the city council may, after the one month period, appoint an acting
city manager. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-6: COMPENSATION:
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the city council shall from
time to time determine. In addition, the city manager shall be reimbursed for
all actual and necessary expenses incurred by him in the performance of his
official duties.
Upon termination of employment of the city manager by reason of involuntary
removal from service, other than for wilful misconduct in office, the city
manager shall receive cash severance pay in an amount deemed appropriate by the
city council, however, not to exceed that allowed by law. (Ord. 97-12, 10-14-
1997)
1-6-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall be the administrative head of the government of the city
under the direction and control of the city council, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. He shall be responsible for the efficient
administration of all the affairs of the city which are under his control. In
addition to his general powers as administrative head, and not as a limitation
thereon, it shall be his duty and he shall have the powers set forth in the
following sections of this chapter. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-1: LAW ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to enforce all laws and ordinances of
the city and to see that all franchises, contracts, permits and privileges
granted by the city council are faithfully observed. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-2: AUTHORITY OVER EMPLOYEES:
It shall be the duty of the city manager, and he shall, have the authority to
control, order and give directions to all heads of departments and to
subordinate officers and employees of the city under his jurisdiction through
their department heads. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-3: POWER OF APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to, and he shall, appoint, remove,
promote and demote any and all officers and employees of the city with the
exception of the city attorney. The city manager may make recommendations
pertaining to these positions, subject to all applicable personnel ordinances,
rules and regulations. (Ord. 636, 3-3-1981)
1-6-7-4: ADMINISTRATIVE REORGANIZATION OF OFFICES:
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the city manager to conduct studies
and effect such administrative reorganization of offices, positions or units
under his direction as may be indicated in the interest of efficient, effective
and economical conduct of the city's business, subject to city council
approval. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-5: ORDINANCES:
It shall be the duty of the city manager and he shall recommend to the city
council for adoption such measures and ordinances as he deems necessary. (Ord.
612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-6: ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to attend all meetings of the city
council unless, at his request, he is excused therefrom by the mayor
individually or the city council, except when his removal is under
consideration. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-7: BUDGET:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to prepare and submit the proposed
annual budget and the proposed annual salary plan to the city council for its
approval. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-8: EXPENDITURE CONTROL AND PURCHASING:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to see that no expenditures shall be
submitted or recommended to the city council except on approval of the city
manager or his authorized representative. The city manager, or his authorized
representative, shall be responsible for the purchase of all supplies for all
the departments or divisions of the city. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-9: INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLAINTS:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to make investigations into the
affairs of the city and any department or division thereof, and any contract
for the proper performance of any obligations of the city. Further, it shall be
the duty of the city manager to investigate all complaints in relation to
matters concerning the administration of the city government and in regard to
the service maintained by public utilities in said city. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-10: PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to exercise general supervision over
all public buildings, public parks and all other public property which is under
the control and jurisdiction of the city council. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-7-11: ADDITIONAL DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to perform such other duties and
exercise such other powers as may be delegated to him from time to time by
ordinance or resolution or other official action of the city council. (Ord.
612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-8: INTERNAL RELATIONS:
1-6-8-1: COUNCIL/MANAGER RELATIONS:
The city council and its members shall deal with the administrative services of
the city only through the city manager, except for the purpose of inquiry, and
neither the city council nor any member thereof shall give orders or
instructions to any subordinates of the city manager. The city manager shall
take his orders and instructions from the city council only when sitting in a
duly convened meeting of the city council and no individual councilmember shall
give any orders or instructions to the city manager. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-8-2: DEPARTMENTAL COOPERATION:
It shall be the duty of all subordinate officers and the city treasurer and
city attorney to assist the city manager in administering the affairs of the
city efficiently, economically and harmoniously. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-8-3: ATTENDANCE AT COMMISSION MEETINGS:
The city manager may attend any and all meetings of the planning commission,
recreation and park commission, and any other commissions, boards or committees
created by the city council, upon his own volition or upon direction of the
city council. At such meetings which the city manager attends, he shall be
heard by such commissions, boards or committees as to all matters upon which he
wishes to address the members thereof, and he shall inform said members as to
the status of any matter being considered by the city council, and he shall
cooperate to the fullest extent with the members of all commissions, boards or
committees appointed by the city council. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-9: REMOVAL PROCEDURE:
1-6-9-1: REMOVAL OF CITY MANAGER:
The removal of the city manager shall be effected only by a majority vote of
the whole city council as then constituted, convened in a regular council
meeting, subject, however, to the provisions of the next succeeding
subsections. In case of his intended removal by the city council, the city
manager shall be furnished with a written notice stating the city council's
intention to remove him, at least thirty (30) days before the effective date of
his removal. If the city manager so requests, the city council shall provide,
in writing, the reasons for the intended removal, which shall be provided the
city manager within seven (7) days after the receipt of such request from the
city manager, and at least fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of
such removal. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-9-2: HEARING:
Within seven (7) days after the delivery to the city manager of such notice of
intention to remove, he may, by written notification to the city clerk, request
a hearing before the city council. Thereafter, the city council shall fix a
time for the hearing which shall be held at its usual meeting place, but before
the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, at which the city manager shall
appear and be heard, with or without counsel. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-9-3: SUSPENSION PENDING HEARING:
After furnishing the city manager with written notice of intended removal, the
city council may suspend him from duty, but his compensation shall continue
until his removal by action of the council passed subsequent to the aforesaid
hearing. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-9-4: DISCRETION OF CITY COUNCIL:
In removing the city manager, the city council shall use its uncontrolled
discretion and its action shall be final and shall not depend upon any
particular showing or degree of proof at the hearing, the purpose of which is
to allow the city manager to present to said city council his grounds of
opposition to his removal prior to its action. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-9-5: LIMITATION ON REMOVAL:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
1-6-9-4 of this chapter, the city manager shall not be removed from office,
other than for misconduct in office, during or within a period of sixty (60)
days next succeeding any general municipal election held in the city at which
election a member of the city council is elected or when a new city
councilmember is appointed; the purpose of this provision is to allow any newly
elected or appointed member of the city council or a reorganized city council
to observe the actions and ability of the city manager in the performance of
the powers and duties of his office. After the expiration of said sixty (60)
day period aforementioned, the provisions of section
1-6-9-4 of this chapter as to the removal of said city manager shall apply and
be effective. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-9-6: WILFUL MISCONDUCT, DETERMINATION:
In the event the intended removal of the city manager is for wilful misconduct
in office, written notice to the city manager as provided by subsection
1-6-9-1 of this chapter shall state that the reason for removal is wilful
misconduct in office and shall state specific facts which constitute such
wilful misconduct. The procedure for hearing and for suspension pending hearing
shall be followed as stated in sections
1-6-9-1 through
1-6-9-5 of this chapter. A determination of wilful misconduct in office shall
be evidenced by specific findings of fact constituting such wilful misconduct.
The determination of what constitutes wilful misconduct shall be within the
sole discretion of the city council, provided that it shall relate to the
welfare of the city.
Wilful misconduct includes conduct directly related to conduct in office and
directly related to the duties of the office. It includes the refusal to follow
the lawful directions of the city council. It also includes conduct not
directly related to the performance of official duties of the office when such
conduct has a direct and harmful effect on the welfare of the city. Evidence of
such direct and harmful effect shall include, but shall not be limited to,
conviction of a felony. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
1-6-10: AGREEMENTS ON EMPLOYMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the power or
authority of the city council to enter into any supplemental agreement with the
city manager delineating additional terms and conditions of employment not
inconsistent with any provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 612, 6-19-1979)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Official Bonds
1-7-2: City Clerk
1-7-3: City Treasurer
1-7-4: Director Of Finance
1-7-5: City Attorney
1-7-1: OFFICIAL BONDS:
Each of the officers and employees of the city hereinafter named shall, before
entering upon the duties of such office, execute and deliver to the city a good
and sufficient corporate surety bond for the faithful performance of his or her
office in the penal sum as herein provided, and which bond shall conform to the
applicable provisions of the Government Code of the state relating to bonds of
public officers 1 . The premium for any such bond shall be a proper charge
against the city.
 
City clerk     $5,000.00
City treasurer 25,000.00
 
In addition to the bonds required herein, the faithful performance of the
duties imposed upon all city employees shall be insured at all times by a crime
insurance policy that covers at a minimum, employee theft, including faithful
performance of duty, forgery or alteration, theft of money, securities, or
other property, computer fraud, and funds transfer fraud. (Ord. 2013-002, 5-14-
2013)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV §§ 36518, 36519.
1-7-2: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Appointment: The office of the city clerk shall be appointive 2 . The
city clerk shall be appointed by the city manager. The city manager may also
appoint a deputy city clerk.
   B.   Records: The city clerk shall keep an accurate record of the
proceedings of the legislative body and shall carry out such other duties as
may be required by the laws of the state of California. (Ord. 734, 5-9-1990)
 
Notes
2 2. Pursuant to general election held April 11, 1944, and resolution 777.
   
1-7-3: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: Pursuant to measure J, approved by the voters in March
1996, the office of city treasurer is appointive, and pursuant to Government
Code sections 34856 and 36510, the city treasurer shall be appointed to office
by the city manager. (Ord. 96-007, 6-25-1996)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the city treasurer are as
follows:
      1.   He shall receive and safely keep all money coming into his hands as
city treasurer.
      2.   He shall comply with all laws governing the deposit and security of
public funds and the handling of trust funds in his possession.
      3.   He shall pay out money only on warrants signed by legally designated
persons.
      4.   He shall regularly submit to the city clerk a written report and
accounting of all receipts, disbursements and funds balances. He shall file a
copy with the city clerk at least once each month.
      5.   He shall comply with all other duties imposed by ordinance. (Ord.
577, 5-17-1977)
1-7-4: DIRECTOR OF FINANCE:
   A.   Office Established: Pursuant to Government Code sections 37209 and
40805.5, there is hereby created and established the office of director of
finance. The director of finance shall be the chief accounting officer of the
city and shall be vested and charged with the powers and duties hereinafter set
forth.
   B.   Appointment: The director of finance shall be appointed by the city
manager after the city manager determines that said appointee is possessed of
sufficient accounting training, skill and experience to be proficient in the
position.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the director of finance are
as follows:
      1.   Administration of the financial affairs of the city as hereinafter
set forth, under the direction of the city manager.
      2.   Preparation of the annual budget and estimates of revenues.
      3.   Maintenance of general accounting system for the city as a whole and
for its departments, offices and agencies.
      4.   Supervision and control of the disbursement of all monies, and audit
of all purchase orders prior to issuance; audit and approval of all bills,
invoices, payrolls, demands or other charges against the city to determine that
said charges are regular, correct and that funds have been appropriated
therefor.
      5.   Submission to the city council, through the city manager, of a
semiannual statement (January 1) of all receipts and disbursements in
sufficient detail to show the exact financial condition of the city, and
submission annually (June 30), at the end of the fiscal year, of a complete
financial statement and report.
      6.   Supervision of the keeping of correct inventories of all property of
the city by all city departments, offices and agencies.
      7.   Performance of all other financial and accounting duties imposed
upon the city clerk by Government Code sections 40802 through 40805.5,
inclusive, and performance of all duties imposed upon the city clerk by
Government Code sections 37201 through 37208, inclusive, which may not be
specifically enumerated herein.
      8.   Performance of all functions and duties relating to the
administration and collection of all licenses and other city taxes not
collected by county or state agencies.
      9.   Manage and control the investment of city funds upon and after
consultation with the city treasurer.
      10.   Performance of such other duties specified by the city manager,
including, but not limited to, serving as the city treasurer, or as prescribed
by resolution of the city council.
   D.   Bond: The director of finance shall execute the bond required of the
city clerk as provided in Section
1-7-1  of this Code. (Ord. 577, 5-17-1977; am. Ord. 734, 5-9-1990; Ord. 2020-
001, 1-12-2021)
1-7-5: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Office Created: The office of city attorney is hereby created.
   B.   Compensation: The city attorney shall be paid such salary as is allowed
by the city council and such other compensation for special services as might
from time to time be allowed by the city council.
   C.   Duties: The city attorney shall advise the city officials in all legal
matters pertaining to city business. He shall frame all ordinances and
resolutions required by the city council, and shall perform other legal
services required from time to time by the city council 1 . (Ord. 66, 6-3-1919;
amd. 1964 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 41801 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Establishment
1-8A-2: Fire Chief
1-8A-3: Duties Of Fire Department Members
1-8A-4: Rules And Regulations
1-8A-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
The fire department and the office of fire chief are hereby created and
established. The fire chief shall receive such compensation and benefits as may
be provided annually in the city budget. (Ord. 2005-02, 1-25-2005; amd. 2007
Code)
1-8A-2: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment; Supervision: The fire chief shall be appointed or removed
by the city manager. The city manager shall be the immediate supervisor of the
fire chief, and all policies, directives and orders to the fire chief shall be
made by or transmitted through the city manager.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The fire chief shall be responsible for enforcing
applicable state and local laws and ordinances and shall direct the
administration and operation of the fire department. (Ord. 2005-02, 1-25-2005)
1-8A-3: DUTIES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
Members of the fire department shall attend all fire and rescue incidents in
the city and perform such duties in suppressing any fire, facilitate rescue
operations and mitigate hazardous situations as may be directed by a fire
officer. Additionally, members of the fire department shall assist with fire
suppression and rescue duties in locations outside the city when directed to do
so by a fire officer. (Ord. 2005-02, 1-25-2005)
1-8A-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Adoption Of Rules And Regulations: The fire chief shall cause to be
adopted, maintained and enforced an up to date comprehensive set of rules and
regulations governing the discipline, training and operation of the fire
department. Such rules and regulations and any deletions, changes or additions
thereto shall not be deemed the exclusive authority or power of the fire chief,
but he shall have such further and additional authority reasonably necessary
and convenient to carry out the purposes and intents of the provisions of this
chapter and to fulfill the duties and requirements of the fire department.
   B.   Enforcement: The fire chief shall carry out and enforce the rules and
regulations of the fire department and is authorized to suspend or remove from
service any officer or firefighter, as provided in the rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2005-02, 1-25-2005)
ARTICLE B. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Chief Of Police
1-8B-2: State Aid For Training And Recruitment
1-8B-3: Reserve Police Officers
1-8B-1: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created: The department of police shall be under the direction
and control of the chief of police, which office is hereby created 1 .
   B.   Appointment: The chief of police shall be appointed by the city manager
2 . The chief of police may appoint, subject to the approval of the city
manager, one or more police officers.
   C.   Duties: The chief of police shall have such powers and must perform
such duties as now or may from time to time be provided by law now in effect or
hereafter enacted. (Ord. 734, 5-9-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 36501.
2 2. Gov.C. § 34856.
1-8B-2: STATE AID FOR TRAINING AND RECRUITMENT:
The city council declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the
state of California under the provisions of Penal Code chapter 1 of title 4,
part 4. Pursuant to Penal Code section 13522, the city, while receiving aid
from the state of California, will adhere to the standards for recruitment and
training established by the California commission on peace officer standards
and training. (Ord. 734, 5-9-1990)
1-8B-3: RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS:
Pursuant to the provisions of Penal Code section 832.6(b), all reserve officers
of the Reedley police department who have been issued a "level 1 reserve
officer" certification prior to January 1, 1981, are hereby determined to be
qualified to perform general law enforcement duties by reason of their training
and experience and are hereby designated as peace officers and shall have the
full powers and duties of a peace officer as provided by Penal Code section
830.1. (Ord. 734, 5-9-1990)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
ARTICLE A. CLAIMS
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Requirements
1-9A-2: Consideration Of Demands
1-9A-3: Method Of Payment
1-9A-4: Claims Procedures For State And Local Claims
1-9A-1: REQUIREMENTS:
Every demand against the city, except for payroll, payroll benefits and debt
service, must be itemized, specifying the goods furnished, the services
performed or other basis of the claim, giving the date and the amount of each
item, and by whom ordered, or a purchase order number. Every demand must be
filed with the director of finance, who shall review and process the demand in
accordance with this chapter and applicable provisions of Section
1-7-4  and city procedures. (Ord. 717, 3-21-1989; amd. Ord. 2020-001, 1-12-
2021)
1-9A-2: CONSIDERATION OF DEMANDS:
The city manager and director of finance shall prescribe the process in which
demands against the city are reviewed, approved, and allowed, subject to
procedures and restrictions set forth in this chapter or otherwise established
by the city council. (Ord. 717, 3-21-1989; amd. Ord. 2020-001, 1-12-2021)
1-9A-3: METHOD OF PAYMENT:
All demands when reviewed, approved, and allowed, and all salaries, shall be
paid by a check or electronic funds transfer drawn on the city treasury or
authorized custodian account. Personnel authorized to sign checks or authorize
electronic funds transfers shall be established by resolution. Facsimile
signatures on checks are allowed, provided that the register of warrants
identifying each check is manually signed, in advance, by those authorized to
sign checks. Custody and control of the signature stamp is the responsibility
of the director of finance. In addition, checks for any purpose other than
payroll shall require the manual signature of at least one authorized city
official. (Ord. 2013-002, 5-14-2013; amd. Ord. 2020-001, 1-12-2021)
1-9A-4: CLAIMS PROCEDURES FOR STATE AND LOCAL CLAIMS:
Claims against the city for money or damages which are excepted by Government
Code section 905 from chapter 1 (commencing with section 900) and chapter 2
(commencing with section 910) of part 3 of division 3.6 of title 1, and which
are not governed by any other statutes or regulations expressly relating
thereto, shall be presented within the time limitations and in the manner
prescribed by Government Code sections 910 through 915.2, and shall be subject
to the provisions of Government Code sections 945 through 946, relating to the
prohibition of suits in the absence of the presentation of a claim to and
action thereon by the city council. (Ord. 94-002, 2-8-1994)
ARTICLE B. PURCHASING
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Adoption Of Purchasing System; Purposes
1-9B-2: Requisitions
1-9B-3: Purchases Of Supplies, Equipment, And Vehicles
1-9B-4: Methods Of Purchase
1-9B-5: Formal Bidding Procedure
1-9B-6: Bidding Exceptions
1-9B-7: Inspection And Testing
1-9B-8: Preference For Local Vendors
1-9B-9: Severability
1-9B-1: ADOPTION OF PURCHASING SYSTEM; PURPOSES:
This purchasing system is adopted for the purposes of: establishing efficient
and uniform procedures for the purchase of supplies and equipment; securing
supplies and equipment for the city at the lowest possible cost commensurate
with quality and quantity needed and the availability of the item(s);
exercising positive financial control over purchasing; and clearly defining the
authority for the purchasing function to assure the quality of purchases. (Ord.
2015-009, 10-27-2015)
1-9B-2: REQUISITIONS:
City departments shall submit requests for supplies, equipment, and vehicles to
the purchasing officer by standard requisition forms. (Ord. 2015-009, 10-27-
2015)
1-9B-3: PURCHASES OF SUPPLIES, EQUIPMENT, AND VEHICLES:
Except as provided in section
1-9B-6, "Bidding Exceptions", of this article, the following approval levels
shall apply to purchases of supplies, equipment, and vehicles, provided that
such expenditures are within the budget limitations:
   A.   Single purchases in excess of seventy five thousand dollars
($75,000.00) shall be authorized by the city council and shall be made pursuant
to the formal bid procedure set forth in section
1-9B-5 of this article, unless expressly waived by the city council.
   B.   Single purchases in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) up to
seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) shall be authorized by the city
manager and shall be made pursuant to the formal bid procedure set forth in
section
1-9B-5 of this article, unless expressly waived by the city council.
   C.   Any purchase of more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) up to fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) shall require at least three (3) written
quotations and shall be approved by the city manager or designee. However, if
there are fewer than three (3) available vendors, the city manager or designee
may authorize a purchase with fewer than three (3) quotations.
   D.   The city manager or designee is authorized to make any purchase not
exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in the open market with or without
solicitation of multiple quotations.
   E.   Separate purchases of components of equipment, or phasing of projects,
solely to avoid the provisions of this section shall not be permitted. (Ord.
2015-009, 10-27-2015)
1-9B-4: METHODS OF PURCHASE:
Purchases of supplies, equipment, and vehicles are to be made by purchase order
whenever possible; provided, however, that purchases made by credit card,
merchant account, or petty cash are permissible if appropriate authorization is
obtained. (Ord. 2015-009, 10-27-2015)
1-9B-5: FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURE:
Except to the extent permitted by law, or as otherwise provided in section
1-9B-6, "Bidding Exceptions", of this article, purchases and contracts for
supplies, equipment, and vehicles of estimated value greater than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) shall be by written contract with the lowest
responsible bidder, pursuant to the procedure prescribed herein.
   A.   Notice Inviting Bids: Notices inviting bids shall include a general
description of the articles to be purchased, shall state where bid forms and
specifications may be obtained, and the time and place for submitting bids and
the opening of bids.
      1.   Notices: Notices inviting bids may be published in a newspaper of
general circulation, or trade journal.
      2.   Bidder Solicitation: The purchasing officer may solicit sealed bids
from responsible prospective suppliers.
      3.   City Website: The purchasing officer shall also advertise pending
purchases by a notice posted on the city's public website.
   B.   Rejection Of Bids: In his or her discretion, the city manager or
designee may reject any and all bids presented and readvertise for bids.
   C.   Award Of Contracts: Pursuant to section
1-9B-3 of this article, contracts shall be awarded by the city council or city
manager to the lowest responsible bidder, except as otherwise provided in
subsection D of this section.
   D.   Bidder's Failure To Execute Contract: If the successful bidder fails or
refuses to execute the contract, the city manager or designee is authorized to
award the contract to the next lowest responsible bidder.
   E.   Tie Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, and if the public
interest will not permit the delay of readvertising for bids, the city manager
or designee may accept whichever one he or she chooses, and may accept the
lowest bid made after negotiation with the tie bidders at the bid opening.
   F.   Performance Bonds: The city manager or designee shall have authority to
require a performance bond or other appropriate security before entering a
contract in such amount as determined to be reasonably necessary to protect the
best interest of the city. If a performance bond or other security is required,
the form and amount of the bond or security shall be described in the notice
inviting bids. (Ord. 2015-009, 10-27-2015)
1-9B-6: BIDDING EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Emergency Purchases: Purchases of an emergency nature may be made as
the need arises, and such purchases shall be exempt from the requirements of
this article; provided, however, such emergency purchases shall be authorized
by the city manager or designee.
   B.   Sole Source: Bidding shall be dispensed when the item(s) can be
obtained from only one vendor; provided, however, such sole source purchases
are authorized by the city manager or designee.
   C.   Cooperative Purchasing: The city manager or designee shall have the
authority, to the extent permitted by law, to join with other units of
government or other governmental agencies or authorities in cooperative
purchasing when beneficial to the city. Bidding may be dispensed when the
supplies, equipment or vehicles can be acquired under a valid purchasing
contract that has been previously bid by the city or other governmental agency.
   D.   Other Considerations: The city manager shall have the authority to
dispense with bidding if it can be shown that a project, usually complex in
nature, in which the design, installation or support of equipment and systems
from a vendor is of higher significance than the component costs of supplies or
equipment purchased as part of the overall project. (Ord. 2015-009, 10-27-2015)
1-9B-7: INSPECTION AND TESTING:
The purchasing officer or designee shall inspect supplies and equipment
delivered to determine their conformance with the specifications set forth in
the order or contract. The purchasing officer or designee shall have authority
to require chemical and physical tests of samples submitted with bids and
samples of deliveries which are necessary to determine their quality and
conformance with specifications. (Ord. 2015-009, 10-27-2015)
1-9B-8: PREFERENCE FOR LOCAL VENDORS:
The use of vendors who have a fixed business location within the city limits
provides certain benefits to the city and its citizens, including, without
limitation, the following:
   A.   Receipt of sales tax revenue from sales made within the city limits;
   B.   Cost savings resulting from local maintenance, repair, pick up and
delivery; and
   C.   Use of the local labor force.
Therefore, except in public works projects or other projects where the city is
required to award a bid or contract to the lowest bidder, and notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this article, the city may allow the following
preferences to vendors having a fixed business location within the city limits.
In instances where a local vendor and a nonlocal vendor submit equivalent
lowest responsible bids, the city shall give preference to the local vendor
having a fixed business location and a valid business license within the city
limits. If the city receives two (2) or more bids/quotations with all factors
being equal except price, an allowance adjustment of up to five percent (5%) of
the quoted price may be afforded to the local vendor having a fixed business
location and a valid business license within the city limits and such local
vendor may be determined the lowest bidder and the city may award the contract
to such local vendor. (Ord. 2015-009, 10-27-2015)
1-9B-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, phrase, provision, or clause of this article is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this article. The city council hereby declares that
it would have adopted this article and each section, subsection, phrase,
provision, or clause hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrases, provisions, or clauses be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2015-009, 10-27-2015)
ARTICLE C. PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC PROJECTS
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Authority And Purpose
1-9C-2: Definitions
1-9C-3: Contracting Procedures
1-9C-4: Severability
1-9C-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This article is adopted to implement the procedures for contracting for public
projects as authorized by the uniform public construction cost accounting act.
(Ord. 2015-007, 10-13-2015)
1-9C-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, unless otherwise apparent from the context,
certain words and phrases used in this article are defined as follows:
CONTRACTORS LIST: A list of qualified contractors, identified according to
categories of work. The minimum criteria for the development and maintenance of
the list shall be determined by the California uniform construction cost
accounting commission.
FACILITY: As defined in section 22002 of the Public Contract Code, and means
any plant, building, structure, ground facility, real property, streets and
highways, or other public work improvement.
MAINTENANCE WORK: Includes all of the following:
   A.   Routine, recurring, and usual work for the preservation or protection
of any publicly owned or publicly operated facility.
   B.   Minor repainting.
   C.   Resurfacing of streets and highways at less than one inch (1").
   D.   Landscape maintenance, including mowing, watering, trimming, pruning,
planting, replacement of plants, and servicing of irrigation and sprinkler
systems.
   E.   Work performed to keep, operate, and maintain publicly owned water,
power, or waste disposal systems.
PUBLIC PROJECT: As defined in section 22002 of the Public Contract Code, and
means any of the following, but does not include "maintenance work":
   A.   Construction, reconstruction, erection, alteration, renovation,
improvement, demolition, and repair work involving any publicly owned, leased,
or operated facility.
   B.   Painting or repainting of any publicly owned, leased, or operated
facility. (Ord. 2015-007, 10-13-2015)
1-9C-3: CONTRACTING PROCEDURES:
The dollar amount thresholds provided in this section shall automatically
adjust upon the effectiveness of any adjustment notification by the state
controller in accordance with Public Contract Code section 22020, without the
necessity of amending this section or any subdivision herein to reflect any
such adjustment.
   A.   Public Projects Of Forty Five Thousand Dollars Or Less: Public projects
of forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) or less may be performed by city
employees by force account, by negotiated contract, or by purchase order.
Provided the expenditure is within the budget limitation, the city manager or
designee is authorized to approve the use of city employees for public
projects, approve and sign any contract or purchase order for public projects
not exceeding forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00), and accept the
completed public project and authorize the recording of a notice of completion.
   B.   Public Projects Of One Hundred Seventy Five Thousand Dollars Or Less:
Public projects of one hundred seventy five thousand dollars ($175,000.00) or
less may be let to contract by informal bidding procedures as follows:
      1.   Informal Bid Procedures: Public projects, in accordance with the
limits listed in section 22032 of the Public Contract Code, may be let to
contract by informal procedures as set forth in section 22032 et seq., of the
Public Contract Code.
      2.   Contractors List: A list of qualified contractors shall be developed
and maintained in accordance with the provisions of section 22034 of the Public
Contract Code and criteria promulgated from time to time by the California
uniform construction cost accounting commission.
      3.   Notice Inviting Informal Bids: A notice inviting informal bids shall
be prepared, which notice shall describe the project in general terms, describe
how to obtain more detailed information about the project, and state the time
and place for the submission of bids. The notice shall be mailed, not less than
ten (10) calendar days before bids are due, to either all contractors on the
contractors list for the category of work to be bid, or to and to all
construction trade journals as specified by the California uniform construction
cost accounting commission in accordance with section 22036 of the Public
Contract Code. Additional contractors and/or construction trade journals may be
notified at the discretion of the department soliciting bids, provided,
however:
         a.   If there is no contractors list maintained by the city for the
particular category of work to be performed, the notice shall be sent only to
the construction trade journals specified by the commission.
         b.   If the product or service is proprietary in nature such that it
can be obtained only from a certain contractor or contractors, the notice may
be sent exclusively to such contractor or contractors.
   C.   Award Of Contracts: Contracts for public projects in excess of forty
five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) shall be awarded by the city council. If all
bids received are in excess of one hundred seventy five thousand dollars
($175,000.00), the city council may, by adoption of a resolution by four-fifths
(4/5) vote, award the contract, at one hundred eighty seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($187,500.00) or less, to the lowest responsible bidder, if it
determines the project cost estimate was reasonable.
   D.   Public Projects Of More Than One Hundred Seventy Five Thousand Dollars:
Public projects of more than one hundred seventy five thousand dollars
($175,000.00) shall, except as otherwise provided in this section, be let to
contract by formal bidding procedure in accordance with applicable provisions
of the Public Contract Code. (Ord. 2015-007, 10-13-2015)
1-9C-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, phrase, or clause of this article is for any reason
held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this article. The city council hereby declares that it
would have adopted this article and each subsection, phrase, or clause thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, phrases,
or clauses be declared invalid. (Ord. 2015-007, 10-13-2015)
CHAPTER 10
GRADE MAP
SECTION:
1-10-1: Reserved
1-10-2: Reserved
1-10-3: Reserved
1-10-4: Bench Mark
1-10-5: Basis Of Bearing
1-10-1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2008-01, 2-12-2008)
1-10-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2008-01, 2-12-2008)
1-10-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2008-01, 2-12-2008)
1-10-4: BENCH MARK:
All vertical measurements for the establishment of grades and elevations of
streets shall be taken from and based upon the elevation of a certain bench
mark located on the west corner of 11th and G Streets (copper plate embedded in
the entrance of the building) shall be converted from the city datum (BATES) to
reflect the NAVD 88 elevation. The NAVD 88 datum will be the standard for all
vertical control bench marks throughout the city of Reedley. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-
10-2009)
1-10-5: BASIS OF BEARING:
The basis of bearing for all plans and mapping throughout the city of Reedley
shall be based upon NAD 83 (2007 NSRS) zone 4 horizontal datum. Approved
horizontal control monuments are on file with the city surveyor. (Ord. 2009-01,
2-10-2009)
CHAPTER 11
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
SECTION:
1-11-1: Purpose Of Redevelopment Project
1-11-2: Adoption Of Proposed Plan
1-11-3: Right Of Eminent Domain, Agency's Rights
1-11-4: Findings Regarding Plan For Project
1-11-5: Official Action By City Council
1-11-6: Housing Facilities, Availability Assured
1-11-7: Tax Increment Financing
1-11-8: Validity Of Chapter And/Or Plan
1-11-9: Redevelopment Agency Responsibilities
1-11-10: Project Area To Be Recorded
1-11-11: Office To Advise Building Permit Applicants
1-11-12: Copies Of Plan Filed With Proper Agencies
1-11-13: Redevelopment Plan Amendments
1-11-1: PURPOSE OF REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
The purpose of redevelopment projects are:
   A.   Expansion and diversification of the city's economic and employment
base, through the facilitation of industrial development and expansion.
   B.   Strengthening of the general retail and service commercial sectors of
the local economy, through diversification and enhancement of population
generated and income generated performance.
   C.   Strengthening of the aesthetic image of the community, with particular
emphasis upon enhancement of the aesthetic qualities of the city's commercial
core to support its competitive performance.
   D.   Recapture of general retail sales leakage from Reedley to other, larger
trade centers.
   E.   Improvement in the quality of the community's existing housing stock,
through rehabilitation and replacement programs.
   F.   Improvements to existing infrastructure supporting the project area,
particularly streets, sewerage, water, storm drainage, curb, gutter and
sidewalk, to remove existing impediments to the economic development of the
community.
   G.   Enhancement of active and passive recreational opportunities and
community facilities available to residents of the project area and supportive
of the local population at large.
   H.   Elimination or mitigation of other existing blighting conditions and
influences, including incompatible land uses, obsolete or substandard
structures, inadequate public facilities and/or small, irregular and landlocked
parcels. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-2: ADOPTION OF PROPOSED PLAN:
The proposed redevelopment plan for the Reedley redevelopment project is hereby
approved, adopted and designated as the redevelopment plan for the Reedley
redevelopment project and is hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a
part hereof as if fully set forth at length herein, three (3) copies of which
are hereby directed to be on file with the city clerk. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-3: RIGHT OF EMINENT DOMAIN, AGENCY'S RIGHTS:
As provided in the plan, unless requested by the property owner, the agency
shall not exercise its right of eminent domain to acquire dwellings located in
single-family zone districts, whether or not occupied by the owner, nor to
acquire dwellings located in the central commercial zone district as long as
the dwellings are occupied by the owner as the owner's principal residence on
the date this plan is adopted and remain continuously owner/occupied thereafter
by the same owner, or his heirs, as defined by the laws of intestacy of the
state 1 . (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. Prob.C. §§ 6400 - 6414.
1-11-4: FINDINGS REGARDING PLAN FOR PROJECT:
The city council hereby finds and determines that:
   A.   The written objections to the plan are hereby overruled and the written
report presented to the city council on this date is hereby adopted and
approved as the city council's response to its findings, pursuant to Health and
Safety Code section 33364;
   B.   The project area is a predominately urbanized area which is a blighted
area, the redevelopment of which is necessary to effectuate the public purposes
declared in the community redevelopment law of the state of California 2 and
specifically that the project area is characterized by the existence of
buildings and structures, used or intended to be used for living, commercial,
industrial or other purposes, or any combination of such uses, which are unfit
or unsafe to occupy for such purposes and are conducive to ill health,
transmission of disease, infant mortality, juvenile delinquency and crime
because of any one or a combination of the following factors:
      1.   Defective design and character of physical construction;
      2.   Faulty interior arrangement and exterior spacing;
      3.   High density of population and overcrowding;
      4.   Inadequate provision for ventilation, light, sanitation, open spaces
and recreation facilities;
      5.   Age, obsolescence, deterioration, dilapidation, mixed character or
shifting of uses;
and is further characterized by properties which suffer from economic
dislocation, deterioration or disuse because of one or more of the following
factors which cause a reduction of, or lack of, proper utilization of the area
to such an extent that it constitutes a serious physical, social or economic
burden on the community which cannot reasonably be expected to be reversed or
alleviated by private enterprise acting alone:
         a.   The subdividing and sale of lots of irregular form and shape and
inadequate size for proper usefulness and development;
         b.   The laying out of lots in disregard of the contours and other
topography or physical characteristics of the ground and surrounding
conditions;
         c.   The existence of inadequate public improvements, public
facilities, open spaces and utilities which cannot be remedied by private or
governmental action without redevelopment;
         d.   The prevalence of depreciated values, impaired investments and
social and economic maladjustment;
   C.   The redevelopment plan will redevelop the project area in conformity
with the community redevelopment law of the state of California in the
interests of the public peace, health, safety and welfare;
   D.   The adoption and carrying out of the redevelopment plan is economically
sound and feasible;
   E.   The redevelopment plan conforms to the general plan of the city of
Reedley;
   F.   The carrying out of the redevelopment plan will promote the public
peace, health, safety and welfare of the city and will effectuate the purposes
and policies of the community redevelopment law of the state of California;
   G.   The condemnation of real property is necessary to the execution of the
redevelopment plan and adequate provisions have been made for payment for
property to be acquired as provided;
   H.   The agency 1 has a feasible method or plan for the relocation of
families and persons to be temporarily or permanently displaced from housing
facilities in the project area;
   I.   There are or are being provided in the project area or in other areas
not generally less desirable in regard to public utilities and public and
commercial facilities and at rents or prices within the financial means of the
families and persons displaced from the project area, if any, decent, safe and
sanitary dwellings equal in number to the number of and available to such
displaced families and persons and reasonably accessible to their places of
employment;
   J.   Inclusion within the project area of any lands, buildings or
improvements which are not detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare
is necessary for the effective redevelopment of the area of which they are a
part; and any such area included is necessary for effective redevelopment of
the project area and is not included for the purpose of obtaining the
allocation of tax increment revenues from such area, pursuant to Health and
Safety Code section 33670, without other substantial justification for its
inclusion;
   K.   The elimination of blight and redevelopment of the project area cannot
be reasonably expected to be accomplished by private enterprise acting alone
without the aid and assistance of the agency; and
   L.   The provision of low and moderate income housing outside the project
area will be of benefit to the project. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
 
Notes
2 2. Health & S.C. division 24, part 1.
1 1. See title 2, chapter 7 of this code.
1-11-5: OFFICIAL ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
In order to implement and facilitate the effectuation of the redevelopment plan
hereby approved and adopted, it is found and determined that certain official
actions must be taken by the city council with reference, among other things,
to changes in zoning, the vacating and removal of the streets, alleys and other
public ways, the establishment of new street patterns and location and
relocation of sewer and water mains and other public facilities and other
public action and, accordingly, the city council hereby:
   A.   Declares its intention to undertake and complete any proceedings
necessary to be carried out by the city under the provisions of the
redevelopment plan; and
   B.   Requests of the various officials, departments, boards, commissions and
agencies of the city having administrative responsibilities with respect to the
project likewise to cooperate to such end and to exercise their respective
functions and powers in a manner consistent with the redevelopment plan. (Ord.
759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-6: HOUSING FACILITIES, AVAILABILITY ASSURED:
The city council is satisfied that permanent housing facilities will be
available within three (3) years from the time occupants of the project area
are displaced, if any, and that pending the development of such facilities
there will be available to such displaced occupants adequate temporary housing
facilities at rents comparable to those in the city at the time of their
displacement. No persons or families of low and moderate income shall be
displaced from residences unless and until there is a suitable housing unit
available and ready for occupancy by such displaced person or family at rents
comparable to those at the time of their displacement. Such housing units shall
be suitable to the needs of such displaced persons or families and must be
decent, safe, sanitary and otherwise standard dwellings. The agency shall not
displace such person or family until such housing units are available and ready
for occupancy. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-7: TAX INCREMENT FINANCING:
The city council is convinced that the effect of tax increment financing, as
provided for in the Reedley redevelopment plan, will not cause a severe
financial burden or detriment to any taxing agency deriving revenues from the
project area. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-8: VALIDITY OF CHAPTER AND/OR PLAN:
If any part of this chapter or the redevelopment plan which it approves is held
to be invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this chapter or of the redevelopment plan, and the
city council hereby declares that it would have passed the remainder of this
chapter or approved the remainder of the redevelopment plan if such invalid
portion thereof had been deleted. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-9: REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES:
The city clerk is hereby directed to send a certified copy of this chapter to
the agency, and the agency is hereby vested with the responsibility for
carrying out the redevelopment plan, subject to the provisions of the
redevelopment plan for the Reedley redevelopment project. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-10: PROJECT AREA TO BE RECORDED:
The city clerk is hereby directed to record, within thirty (30) days from the
adoption of this chapter, with the county recorder of Fresno County a
description of the land within the project area and a statement that the
proceedings for the redevelopment of the project area have been instituted
under the California redevelopment law. The agency is hereby directed to
effectuate recordation in compliance with the provisions of Government Code
section 27295 to the extent applicable. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-11: OFFICE TO ADVISE BUILDING PERMIT APPLICANTS:
The building office of the city is hereby directed, for a period of two (2)
years after the effective date hereof, to advise all applicants for building
permits within the project area that the site for which a building permit is
sought for the construction of buildings or for other improvements is within a
redevelopment project area. (Ord. 759, 7-16-1991)
1-11-12: COPIES OF PLAN FILED WITH PROPER AGENCIES:
The city clerk is hereby directed to transmit a copy of the description and
statement recorded by the city clerk pursuant to section
1-11-9 of this chapter, a copy of this chapter and a map of plat indicating the
boundaries of the project area to the audit tax assessor of Fresno County, to
the governing body of each of the taxing agencies which levies taxes upon any
property in the project area and to the state board of equalization. (Ord. 759,
7-16-1991)
1-11-13: REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AMENDMENTS:
   A.   The city council has received from the Reedley redevelopment agency the
proposed amendment no. 1 to the plan, a copy of which is on file at the office
of the city clerk, 845 G Street, Reedley, California, together with the report
of the agency including the reasons for amendment no. 1, a description of the
physical and economic conditions existing in the territory proposed to be added
to the existing territory located within the existing project (the "added
territory") and the existing territory located within the existing project (the
"existing territory") (the project area, after addition of the added territory,
is referred to herein as the "amended project area"), the proposed method of
financing the redevelopment of the added territory, a plan for the relocation
of families and persons who may be temporarily or permanently displaced from
housing facilities in the added territory, an analysis of the preliminary
amendment, the report and recommendations of the planning commission of the
city, a report as to the conformity of the amendment with the city's general
plan, an implementation plan, a neighborhood impact report, a summary of
consultations with amended project area owners, businesses and community
organizations, an environmental impact report on the amendment, the report of
the county fiscal officer and the agency's analysis thereof, and a summary of
consultations with taxing agencies. (Ord. 96-010, 7-16-1996; amd. Ord. 2006-07,
4-25-2006)
   B.   Section 602 of the plan, as previously amended, is amended to provide
that the plan and any other documents formulated pursuant to the plan shall be
in full force and effect as follows: (Ord. 2006-07, 4-25-2006; amd. Ord. 2010-
07, 12-14-2010)
      1.   With regard to the amended project area, the effectiveness of the
redevelopment plan is hereby extended by one year to July 16, 2027, and the
time limit to receive property taxes received pursuant to section 33670 of the
Health And Safety Code is extended by one year to July 16, 2042.
      2.   With regard to the original project area, the effectiveness of the
redevelopment plan is extended by one year to July 16, 2032, and the final date
to pay indebtedness or receive property taxes pursuant to section 33670 is
extended by one year to July 16, 2042. (Ord. 2010-07, 12-14-2010)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Authority And Purpose
1-12-2: Definitions
1-12-3: Procedures; General
1-12-4: Procedures; Issuance Of Administrative Citations
1-12-5: Contents Of Administrative Citation
1-12-6: Appeal Of Administrative Citation
1-12-7: Hearing Procedures
1-12-8: Fines Assessed
1-12-9: Collection Of Fines
1-12-10: Other Code Enforcement Methods
1-12-11: Policies And Guidelines
1-12-12: Severability
1-12-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The city council finds and declares that there is a need for an
alternative method of enforcement for violations of this code and that an
appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program.
   B.   The council additionally finds that it is in the public's interest to
streamline enforcement of violations of city laws by providing for
administrative citations. This is so because the issuance of an administrative
citation provides for a quick resolution of uncontested violations, but
continues to give persons who have been issued citations a hearing before a
neutral party.
   C.   Pursuant to article XI, section 7, of the California Constitution, the
city has the authority to make and enforce within its jurisdictional limits all
laws for the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Reedley which
are not in conflict with general state laws. In addition, California Government
Code section 36901 specifically provides that the city may impose civil fines,
penalties and forfeitures, up to a maximum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
for violations of city ordinances. Further, California Government Code section
53069.4 expressly authorizes the city to establish an administrative citation
program for violations of city ordinances.
   D.   The council further finds that certain violations of this code may be
of such a nature, or the administrative citation may be ineffective in ensuring
compliance with this code, that existing enforcement mechanisms may have to be
utilized. These methods include, but are not necessarily limited to, the use of
a criminal citation or complaint, abatement, or civil injunction. Therefore,
nothing in this chapter is intended to preclude the city's use of alternative
code enforcement methods. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CITY MANAGER: The city manager for the city of Reedley or his or her designated
representative.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any person authorized to enforce violations of this code.
HEARING OFFICER: Any person appointed by the city manager to preside over the
administrative hearings provided for by this chapter.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, business, trust, organization,
corporation, partnership, company or any other entity.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person who is responsible for violating the provisions
of this code as more particularly described in subsection
1-12-4A of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-3: PROCEDURES; GENERAL:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this code may be issued an
administrative citation by an enforcement officer as provided for in this
chapter.
   B.   Each and every day a violation of any provision of this code exists
constitutes a separate and distinct offense. Each section of this code violated
constitutes a separate violation for any day at issue.
   C.   A fine for violations of this code may be assessed by means of an
administrative citation issued by the enforcement officer and shall be payable
directly to the city.
   D.   Administrative fines assessed by means of an administrative citation
shall be collected in accordance with the procedures specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-4: PROCEDURES; ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
   A.   Responsible Party. Upon discovering or observing any violation of this
code, the enforcement officer shall determine the party responsible for the
violation.
      1.   If a business, the responsible party shall be deemed to be the
person who is in immediate control of the business on site that day. The
enforcement officer may also determine that the owner of the business is the
responsible party.
      2.   The enforcement officer may also determine that the responsible
party is the person who maintains or permits a violation of the Municipal Code
to occur at their property. This includes record owner, the current lessee, or
other person in possession of the property at the time the violation occurred.
   B.   Except as provided for in subsection D of this section, prior to
issuing an administrative citation to a responsible party, the enforcement
officer shall provide written notice to the responsible party of the violation.
That notice need not be in any particular form, but shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Describe the nature of the code violation, including identifying the
code section(s) violated;
      2.   Identify what action is necessary to correct the violation;
      3.   Provide the responsible party with not less than seven (7) calendar
days to correct the violation, unless: a) a lesser time is specified elsewhere
in this code for correcting the violation; or b) the enforcement officer
determines that a lesser time is necessary to protect the public health, safety
or welfare of the citizens of the city; and
      4.   Explain the consequences of a failure to correct the violation.
   C.   The notice required in subsection B of this section may be sent to the
responsible party by first class mail, certified mail, overnight mail,
facsimile, e-mail, hand delivery, or by any other method reasonably likely to
provide notice to the responsible party, by sending the notice to the
responsible party's business address, principal place of business address,
residence address, or other address known to the enforcement officer by
reliable information. The time within which to correct the violation shall run
from the date the notice is sent.
   D.   The notice required by subsection B of this section may be dispensed
with for the following violations: 1) violations that create an immediate
danger to the public health, safety and welfare, as determined by the
enforcement officer, and for which immediate correction is required; 2)
noncontinuing violations for which it is not possible or practical to provide
prior notice and an opportunity to correct; and 3) repeat or chronic violations
where either formal or informal notice of the violation, and previous
reasonable opportunities to correct, have been provided. Examples of
noncontinuing violations where notice is not practical include, but are not
limited to, violations relating to drinking alcoholic beverages in public, the
maintaining of vicious animal(s), animal(s) at large, habitually barking dogs
and other noise violations, the spillage of hazardous waste, the lighting of
fires, and fireworks violations.
   E.   If after the expiration of the time period provided to the responsible
party to correct the violation, the responsible party has not corrected the
violation, the enforcement officer may issue an administrative citation to the
responsible party by any one of the following methods:
      1.   The enforcement officer may attempt to locate the responsible party
at the location of the violation during regular business hours if a business,
or at any reasonable time if not a business. If the enforcement officer is able
to locate the responsible party, the enforcement officer shall either leave the
citation with the responsible party, securely post the citation on the front
door of the residence or business, or mail the citation in accordance with
subsection E4 of this section.
      2.   For property related violations, including planning, zoning and
building violations, the enforcement officer may securely post the citation in
a conspicuous place on the property and mail a copy of the citation to the
responsible party by first class mail within five (5) days of posting to the
responsible party's business address, principal place of business address,
residence address, or other address known to the enforcement officer by
reliable information.
      3.   For sanitation and health violations, title 4 of this code, the
enforcement officer may securely post the citation on the front door of the
residence or business of the responsible party if the violation arose from or
occurred at that location.
      4.   The enforcement officer may mail the citation to the responsible
party by certified and first class mail to the responsible party's business
address, principal place of business address, residence address, or other
address known to the enforcement officer by reliable information.
      The failure of any person to receive an administrative citation shall not
affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this chapter. Notice shall
be effective on the date the citation is received if personally served, on the
date the citation was posted if posted, or on the date mailed if sent by
certified mail.
   F.   The notice provided pursuant to subsection B of this section shall be
sufficient notice for subsequent violations of the same code section occurring
within twelve (12) months of the notice even if the violation occurs at a
different location, and the enforcement officer may proceed directly to an
administrative citation on future violations of the same code section occurring
within twelve (12) months of the notice even if the violation occurs at a
different location. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-006, 4-9-2024)
1-12-5: CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
The administrative citation shall be on a form approved by the city manager and
shall include the following:
   A.   Date and location of the violation(s) and the approximate time the
violation(s) were observed and/or discovered;
   B.   Section(s) of this code violated and description of how the section(s)
are violated;
   C.   Description of the action required to correct the violation(s);
   D.   Statements to require the violator(s) to immediately correct the
violation(s) and to explain the consequences of failure to correct the
violation(s);
   E.   Amount of fine imposed for the violation(s);
   F.   Explanation of how the fine shall be paid and the time period by which
it shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the fine;
   G.   Rights of appeal;
   H.   Signature of the enforcement officer; and
   I.   Notation of whether the citation was served, posted or mailed, and
address where served, posted or mailed. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-6: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
   A.   Any person receiving an administrative citation which carries a
monetary penalty shall within fifteen (15) calendar days from the issuance date
either pay the fine or file an appeal with the city manager. Warning citations
may not be appealed.
   B.   A notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall identify the citation
being appealed and specify the basis for the appeal in sufficient detail so
that a hearing officer can understand the grounds for appeal. If the deadline
falls on a Saturday, Sunday or city holiday, then the deadline for filing an
appeal shall be extended until the next regular business day.
   C.   Written notice of the time and place for the hearing shall be served at
least ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of the hearing to the party
appealing the citation by any one or more of the following means:
      1.   Personal service; or
      2.   First class mail at the address specified in the notice of appeal,
or if no address is specified, at such other address known to the city manager
by reliable information; or
      3.   If a property related violation, by posting the notice of hearing
conspicuously on or in front of the property on which the violation is located.
The failure of any person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity
of any proceedings taken under this chapter. Service by normal delivery mail in
the manner described above shall become effective on the date of mailing.
   D.   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of that person's rights to
an administrative determination of the merits of the citation and the amount of
the fine. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-7: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   The hearing officer shall conduct an orderly proceeding and accept
evidence on which persons commonly would rely in the conduct of their business
affairs. The technical rules of evidence shall not apply, except that
irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded. All evidence
shall be received only on oath or affirmation. The hearing shall be informally
conducted.
   B.   During the hearing, the city manager and/or enforcement officer shall
present information or testimony relating to the violation and the appropriate
means of correcting the violation. The owner, agent, party responsible for the
violation, or any other interested person may present testimony or evidence
concerning the violation and the means and time frame for correction.
   C.   Each party shall have the right to: 1) call and examine witnesses on
any matter relevant to the issues of the hearing; 2) introduce documentary and
physical evidence; 3) cross examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant
to the issues of the hearing, subject to the manner allowed by the hearing
officer; 4) impeach any witness regardless of which party first called the
witness to testify; 5) rebut the evidence; and 6) be represented by anyone who
is lawfully permitted to do so. The hearing officer shall direct the order of
the proceedings.
   D.   The hearing officer may take official notice, either during the
hearing, or after submission of the matter for decision, of any fact which may
be judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official records,
regulations, rules, and decisions of state and local agencies, boards and
departments and of city and county ordinances. In addition, the hearing officer
may take official notice of matters in its own files and of prior proceedings
under this chapter involving the same issues. If applicable, the hearing
officer may also take official notice of any generally accepted technical or
scientific matter within the hearing officer's expertise. The parties present
at the hearing shall be informed of the matters to be noticed, and those
matters should be noted in the record, referred to therein, or appended
thereto. Any such party shall be given a reasonable opportunity on request to
refute the officially noticed matters by evidence or by written or oral
presentation of authority.
   E.   The hearing shall be recorded. A party, at their sole expense, may have
the hearing recorded by a certified shorthand reporter.
   F.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer may sustain the
citation, not sustain the citation, and may reduce, waive or conditionally
reduce the fine stated in the citation. The hearing officer may also impose
conditions and deadlines by which to correct the violation or pay any
outstanding fine.
   G.   The decision of the hearing officer regarding any appeal is the final
administrative order and decision. There are no appeals to the city council.
Judicial review may be had only in accordance with the provisions of California
Government Code section 53069.4.
   H.   The decision of the hearing officer shall be in writing and shall be
served upon the responsible party in the same manner as a notice of the hearing
is required to be served and is effective upon the date of service. The
decision shall contain a statement advising of the right to judicial review,
and shall be in substantially the following form:
This decision is the final decision of the City. You have a right to seek
judicial review of the decision pursuant to Government Code Section 53069.4 by
filing an appeal with the Superior Court. The time to file the appeal is twenty
(20) days after service of this decision. These are your only rights to
judicial review. If you fail to file an appeal within the prescribed time, you
will be barred from seeking judicial review.
   I.   The time to pay a fine following an administrative hearing is five (5)
calendar days after service of the hearing officer's decision unless the
hearing officer provides for a longer time. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-8: FINES ASSESSED:
   A.   Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this code or in subsections B
and C of this section, the amount of the fine assessed for each administrative
citation issued for the same violation(s) within any twelve (12) month period
shall be as follows:
      1.   First administrative citation: Fifty dollars ($50.00);
      2.   Second administrative citation: One hundred dollars ($100.00);
      3.   Third administrative citation: Two hundred dollars ($200.00);
      4.   Fourth administrative citation: Five hundred dollars ($500.00);
      5.   Fifth and subsequent administrative citation: One thousand dollars
($1,000.00);
   B.   For violations that are automatically deemed infractions under this
code, the maximum fine shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00), unless the
violation is of a building or safety code, in which case the maximum fine shall
be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   C.   For violations of this code pertaining to the unlawful sale of
fireworks (section
5-7-2 of this code) or for the possession or use of dangerous fireworks
(section
5-7-13 of this code), the amount of the fine assessed for each administrative
citation issued for the same violation(s) within any twelve (12) month period
shall be as follows:
      1.   First and subsequent administrative citation: One thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   D.   For the purposes of this section, the "same violation" shall mean
violations of the same code section, even if they occur at a different
location.
   E.   All fines assessed shall be payable to the city of Reedley. The failure
of any person to timely pay a fine assessed by administrative citation shall
result in the assessment of an additional late fee to be charged. The amount of
the late fee shall be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of the
administrative fine owed.
   F.   Payment of the fine shall not excuse the failure to correct the
violation nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city.
   G.   Notwithstanding the fine schedules set forth in this section, the city
council may adopt a policy or policies authorizing the enforcement officer to
issue a lower dollar citation than otherwise allowed for the same violation(s)
within any twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-9: COLLECTION OF FINES:
   A.   The failure of any person to timely pay a fine assessed by
administrative citation constitutes a debt owed to the city. To enforce that
debt, the city manager may cause to be filed a claim with the small claims
court or other appropriate court.
   B.   The city manager may also impose an assessment lien as set forth below,
add the fine to other city bills owed by the responsible party as set forth
below, or pursue any other legal remedy to collect such money.
   C.   The city manager may impose a special assessment against the property
that is the subject of a citation, if the citation has been issued to the
property owner, for the amount of the fine, plus late fees, plus an
administrative charge established by resolution of the city council to cover
the costs of imposing the assessment, plus any recording fees charged by the
county recorder to record a notice of lien or record a release of lien. The
assessment shall be imposed in accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   The city council shall confirm the amount of the assessment at a
regularly scheduled meeting or at a special meeting.
      2.   The property owner and any holder of a mortgage or deed of trust of
record, shall be notified of the meeting to confirm the assessment in
accordance with subsection 1-12-6C of this chapter.
      3.   After confirmation by the city council, the city manager shall
record a notice of lien in the office of the county recorder. When so made and
confirmed, the costs shall constitute a lien on that property for the amount of
the assessment.
      4.   After confirmation and recordation, a copy may be turned over to the
tax collector for the city (which is through the county of Fresno). At that
point, it will be the duty of the tax collector to add the amounts of the
respective assessments to the next regular tax bills levied against the lots
and parcels of land for municipal purposes. Those amounts shall be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes are collected,
and shall be subject to the same penalties and procedures under foreclosure and
sale in the cases of delinquency as provided for with ordinary municipal taxes.
Or, after recording, the lien may be foreclosed by judicial or other sale in
the manner and means provided by law. The notice of lien for recordation shall
be in the form substantially as follows:
NOTICE OF LIEN
(Claim of the City of Reedley)
Under authority vested by provision of Chapter 12 of Title 1 of the Reedley
Municipal Code, the City Manager of the City of Reedley did on or about the
         day of           , 20        , assess the cost of administrative fines
and penalties on the real property hereinafter described; and the same has not
been paid nor any part thereof and the City of Reedley does hereby claim a lien
for such fines and penalties, to wit: the sum of          dollars. The same
shall be a lien upon the real property until it has been paid in full and
discharged of record.
The real property hereinafter mentioned, upon which a lien is claimed, is that
certain parcel of land in the City of Reedley, County of Fresno, State of
California, more particularly described as follows:
DATED: this          day of           , 20        
(Name)
                     City of Reedley
(Job Title)
   D.   The city manager may add the fine to other city bills owed by the
responsible party, including utility accounts to the extent permitted by law,
and collect the fine in the same manner as those other city bills.
   E.   If the failure by any person to pay a fine assessed by administrative
citation results in the filing of an action with the small claims court or any
other court to collect the fine, the city shall be entitled to collect all
costs, including reasonable attorney fees, associated with the filing of such
action. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-10: OTHER CODE ENFORCEMENT METHODS:
Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from using any other available
method to enforce the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-11: POLICIES AND GUIDELINES:
The city council may adopt policies and guidelines to aid in the interpretation
and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
1-12-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, phrase, or clause of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter. The city council hereby declares that it
would have adopted this chapter and each section, subsection, phrase, or clause
thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
phrases, or clauses be declared invalid. (Ord. 2013-003, 6-25-2013)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
CITY COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Application
2-1-2: Removal Of Appointee Members
2-1-3: Absenteeism Of Appointee Members
2-1-4: Term Limits
2-1-5: Rules And Regulations Of Commissions
2-1-6: Meetings
2-1-1: APPLICATION:
All rules and regulations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to all
commissions of the city, heretofore or hereinafter created, except as
hereinafter expressly excepted. (Ord. 412, 2-20-1968)
2-1-2: REMOVAL OF APPOINTEE MEMBERS:
Any appointee member of any commission may be removed by any of the following:
   A.   The appointing official, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   B.   A four-fifths (4/5) vote of the legislative body. (Ord. 94-018, 9-13-
1994)
2-1-3: ABSENTEEISM OF APPOINTEE MEMBERS:
If any appointee commission member, without excuse accepted and announced by
the chair, absents himself from three (3) regular meetings in any calendar
year, his position becomes immediately vacant and shall be filled as any other
vacancy. At the commencement of every meeting at which a commissioner is
absent, the chair shall publicly announce whether or not the chair determined
the absence to be excused or unexcused. Excused absences shall include, but not
be limited to, those caused by family illness, necessary work related absences
from the city on the day of the meeting and other similar circumstances. (Ord.
94-018, 9-13-1994)
2-1-4: TERM LIMITS:
Unless there are no new applicants, no person appointed to a commission of the
city shall serve more than two (2) consecutive terms on said commission,
regardless of the length of the original term, except:
   A.   The above provision shall not apply on a four-fifths (4/5) vote of the
city council suspending said provision or when a member has been appointed to
fill a vacancy with less than one-half (1/2) of the balance of the term
remaining to be served; and
   B.   A member who has served two (2) consecutive terms shall be eligible to
serve on a city commission other than the one on which he served two (2)
consecutive terms, but in any event may serve on only one commission at a time.
(Ord. 791, 1-11-1994)
2-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS OF COMMISSIONS:
Where there are no existing rules or regulations, the rules and regulations for
the conduct of meetings of the city council shall apply where not in conflict
with the purpose of the commission. Where none of these rules apply and except
where modified by any other rules adopted by the commission, "Robert's Rules Of
Order" shall apply. All acts and decisions, rules and recommendations of the
commission shall be subject to the approval of the city council. (Ord. 462, 1-
5-1971)
2-1-6: MEETINGS:
All commissions shall hold meetings as called by the chair or at the request of
a quorum of the membership, shall adopt rules for the conduct of business and
shall keep accurate records of its minutes, resolutions, transactions, findings
and determinations, which records shall be a public record maintained in the
city clerk's office. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 2
COMMUNITY SERVICES COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created
2-2-2: Membership
2-2-3: Organization; Compensation
2-2-4: Meetings
2-2-5: Duties And Responsibilities
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
A community services commission in and for the city is hereby created. Said
commission shall be an advisory body to the city council on matters involving
parks, recreation, and seniors as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2017-003, 2-
28-2017)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Number of Members; Appointment: The commission shall consist of seven
(7) members. The commissioners shall be appointed by the mayor subject to
approval of the city council. All commissioners shall be permanent residents of
the city, provided that up to two commissioners may reside outside the city
limits but within the city’s sphere of influence or holds a position with an
established government, non-profit, or similar type organization within the
city’s sphere of influence which supports City of Reedley parks and recreation
activities and the duties and responsibilities of the Community Services
Commission. Each commissioner shall hold office until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified.
   B.   Terms:
      1.   Members of the commission and their successors shall be appointed
for terms of three (3) years each, except as provided in subsection B2 of this
section.
      2.   The initial terms of the commissioners will be as follows: four (4)
members will have two (2) year terms, and three (3) members will have three (3)
year terms. Thereafter, following the expiration of the initial term(s), all
terms will be for three (3) years.
   C.   Removal: Any member of the commission may be removed by any of the
following methods:
      1.   The mayor or appointing official, subject to approval of the city
council; or
      2.   A four-fifths (4/5) vote of the city council; or
      3.   If any member is absent, without excuse or permission from the
chairperson of the commission, from three (3) consecutive regular commission
meetings, the member’s position becomes vacant and shall be filled as any other
vacancy on the commission. (Ord. 2017-003, 2-28-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-004, 4-11-
2023)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION; COMPENSATION:
The commission shall elect a chair and a vice chair from among the members of
the commission, to serve as such for one year terms commencing each January 1.
All the members of the commission shall serve without compensation. The
community services director, or authorized designee, shall serve as the
secretary to the commission. (Ord. 2017-003, 2-28-2017)
2-2-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the commission shall be held in accordance with the provisions of
section
2-1-6 of this title. (Ord. 2017-003, 2-28-2017)
2-2-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The community services commission is charged with the following:
   A.   Conduct its meetings in a businesslike manner.
   B.   Accept as its major responsibility to guide the community services
department toward addressing and fulfilling the recreation needs of the
community, and the needs of seniors in the community.
   C.   Recommend policies, rules and regulations for the conduct and operation
of community services, park, recreation, and senior facilities. The executive
administration of said policies, rules and regulations, once adopted, to be the
responsibility of the community services director.
   D.   Review and make recommendations on the annual fiscal operating budget
for parks and recreation services and facilities, and senior citizen services
and facilities for the community services department, as prepared by the
community services director.
   E.   Visit recreation and senior programs and facilities when possible.
   F.   Study, review, evaluate and make recommendations to the city council
relative to any and all matters affecting youth, adults, and seniors in the
city.
   G.   Inventory the nature and extent of the recreational needs of the youth,
adults and seniors in the city.
   H.   Identify the various services made available to youth, adults, and
seniors in the city by both governmental and nongovernmental agencies and, to
the extent feasible, act as a voluntary coordinating body for such agencies.
   I.   Support a statement of the philosophy of the commission and the
department.
   J.   Be able to interpret park, recreation, and senior programs, as
required.
   K.   Hold joint meetings and act in liaison with other agencies, districts,
groups and individuals concerned with community services, as required or
necessary to adequately perform the responsibilities of the commission.
   L.   Review and recommend the recreational element to be considered in the
general plan of the city, as provided in Government Code section 65300.
   M.   To perform or consider any additional duties as may be designated by
the city council by resolution, ordinance or directive. (Ord. 2017-003, 2-28-
2017)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created
2-3-2: Terms
2-3-3: Vacancy
2-3-4: Officers; Meetings
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
A planning commission in and for the city is hereby created. It shall consist
of five (5) members, not officials of the city, who shall be appointed by the
mayor with the approval of the city council. All commissioners shall be
residents of the city. On the effective date of the ordinance creating the five
(5) member planning commission, all existing and appointed commissioners are
deemed removed from office. (Ord. 2001-03, 7-10-2001)
2-3-2: TERMS:
Unless the city council shall otherwise determine by resolution, terms of
service for commissioners first appointed to the five (5) member planning
commission shall be as follows: three (3) shall be appointed for terms of four
(4) years and two (2) for terms of two (2) years. Their successors shall be
appointed for a term of four (4) years. (Ord. 2001-03, 7-10-2001)
2-3-3: VACANCY:
Should a vacancy occur otherwise than by expiration of term, it shall be filled
by appointment for the unexpired term. Each commissioner shall hold office
until his successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 770, 6-23-1992)
2-3-4: OFFICERS; MEETINGS:
The commission appointed shall elect its chair from among the appointed members
for a term of one year and, subject to all other provisions of law, may create
and fill such other offices as it may determine. Meetings of the commission
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of section
2-1-6 of this title. It shall have such powers and shall perform such duties,
as provided by state law, and therein conferred upon such commission. (Ord.
217, 4-15-1941; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Commission Created; Purpose
2-4-2: Membership
2-4-3: Officers; Meetings
2-4-1: COMMISSION CREATED; PURPOSE:
A traffic safety commission in and for the city is hereby created. It shall
consist of five (5) members. The commission shall be an advisory, investigative
and fact finding body for the city council on matters relating to traffic
safety, including vehicular parking restrictions in the public right of way and
the implementation of the school traffic safety program. (Ord. 791, 1-11-1994)
2-4-2: MEMBERS:
   A.   Number And Appointment: Members of the traffic safety commission shall
consist of the chief of police, a school district representative and three (3)
citizens who are residents of the city. The three (3) citizen members shall be
appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of the city council.
   B.   Terms: Citizen members of the traffic safety commission shall be
appointed for a term of three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancies: Should a citizen member vacancy occur other than by
expiration of term, it shall be filled by a commissioner appointed for the
remainder of the unexpired term. Each commissioner shall hold office until his
successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 791, 1-11-1994)
2-4-3: OFFICERS; MEETINGS:
The traffic safety commission chair and vice chair shall be resident/citizen
members of the commission appointed at large. Meetings of the commission shall
be held in accordance with the provisions of section
2-1-6 of this title. (Ord. 791, 1-11-1994; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 2017-003, 2-28-2017)
CHAPTER 6
AIRPORT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Created
2-6-2: Membership
2-6-3: Organization; Compensation
2-6-4: Meetings
2-6-5: Duties And Responsibilities
2-6-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
An airport commission in and for the city is hereby created. Said commission
shall be an advisory, investigative and fact finding body to the city council
on all matters relating to airport development as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 632, 8-19-1980)
Fixed based operators shall be considered for appointment to the airport
commission, not to exceed two (2) fixed base operators serving at any one time.
(Ord. 656, 2-2-1982)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Number And Appointment: The commission shall consist of five (5)
members. The reduction of the commission membership from nine (9) members to
five (5) members shall be achieved by attrition. The commissioners shall be
appointed by the mayor subject to approval of the city council. Each
commissioner shall hold office until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 2006-09, 9-12-2006)
   B.   Terms:
      1.   Members of the commission and their successors shall be appointed
for terms of three (3) years each.
      2.   The present expiration dates of the terms of members of the airport
commission who are serving on said commission as of the effective date hereof
shall, notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B1 of this section,
continue to be the expiration dates of said terms. (Ord. 791, 1-11-1994)
   C.   Vacancy: Should a vacancy occur other than by expiration of term, it
shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term. The terms of the
commission members shall correspond to their respective official tenures. (Ord.
632, 8-19-1980)
   D.   Removal, Application To Appointee Members: The rules relating to
removal of appointee members and absentation of appointee members as provided
in chapter 1 of this title shall apply to said airport commission. (Ord. 632,
8-19-1980)
2-6-3: ORGANIZATION; COMPENSATION:
The commissioners shall elect a chair from among the appointed membership. A
vice chair shall be appointed by the chair upon the approval of members of said
commission. The members of said commission shall serve without compensation.
The community services director shall serve as secretary to said commission.
Except for the secretary, the officers shall serve a term of one year
commencing January 1, 1981 and annually thereafter. (Ord. 632, 8-19-1980)
2-6-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the commission shall be held in accordance with the provisions of
section
2-1-6 of this title. (Ord. 632, 8-19-1980; amd. 2007 Code)
2-6-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 1 :
The airport commission shall be charged with the following:
   A.   Conduct its meetings in a businesslike manner;
   B.   Accept as its major responsibility the development of guidelines for
the development and use of the airport needs of the community;
   C.   Recommend policies and guidelines for the development and management of
the airport;
   D.   Review and make recommendations on the annual fiscal operating budgets
for said commission;
   E.   Visit other airport developments, programs and/or facilities whenever
possible and feasible;
   F.   Develop a philosophy for the airport development of the community;
   G.   Develop and interpret airport development and management programs for
the community as required;
   H.   Hold joint meetings and act in a liaison capacity with other agencies,
cities and counties, districts, groups and/or individuals concerned with
airport development and management of the said community as required;
   I.   Review and recommend to the planning commission factors involved in
airport development and recommending their adoption into the general plan and
zoning ordinance of the city 1 ;
   J.   Perform or consider any additional duties in airport development or
management as may be designated by the city council by resolution, ordinance or
directive. The commission should be interested in all matters pertaining to the
airport development of the city and the outlying community;
   K.   Invite prospective aviation and related firms to the city. (Ord. 632,
8-19-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 6 of this code for Reedley airport regulations.
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-7-1: Need For Agency Recognized
2-7-2: City Council To Serve As Agency Board
2-7-3: Notice To Secretary Of State
2-7-4: Declaration Regarding Validity
2-7-1: NEED FOR AGENCY RECOGNIZED 1 :
Pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 33101, the city council hereby
declares that there is a need for an agency in the city to function in the city
as a redevelopment agency. The city council further finds and determines that
this need exists because there are certain areas in the city which are
characterized by one or more of the conditions set forth in Health and Safety
Code sections 33031 and 33032 and these areas constitute physical, social and
economic liabilities to the city and require development. The city council
hereby further finds and determines that it is in the interest of the health,
safety and general welfare of the people of the city to form an agency. (Ord.
727, 12-12-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 1, chapter 11 of this code.
2-7-2: CITY COUNCIL TO SERVE AS AGENCY BOARD:
The city council hereby declares itself to be such an agency, contemplated and
authorized by the Health and Safety Code, and hereby designates the official
name of such agency as the Reedley redevelopment agency. The elected or
appointed members of the city council shall serve as the members of the board
of directors of the redevelopment agency. (Ord. 727, 12-12-1989)
2-7-3: NOTICE TO SECRETARY OF STATE:
The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to transmit a certified copy
of this chapter to the California secretary of state. (Ord. 727, 12-12-1989)
2-7-4: DECLARATION REGARDING VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 727, 12-12-1989)
CHAPTER 8
DISASTER AND DEFENSE COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-8-1: Purpose
2-8-2: Definitions
2-8-3: Disaster Council
2-8-4: Director And Assistant Director Of Emergency Services
2-8-5: Emergency Organization
2-8-6: Rules And Regulations
2-8-7: Exceptions
2-8-8: Expenditures
2-8-9: Violations; Penalties
2-8-1: PURPOSE:
The declared purpose of this chapter is to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the protection of persons and property within this
city in the event of an emergency; the direction of the emergency organization;
and the coordination of the emergency functions of this city with all other
public agencies, corporations, organizations and affected private persons.
(Ord. 466, 1971)
2-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall mean:
AIR RAID WARNING SIGNAL: A signal, by siren, whistle, horn or other audible
device, of two (2) minutes duration consisting of either a fluctuating or
warbling signal of varying pitch or a succession of intermittent blasts of
about five (5) seconds duration separated by a silent period of about three (3)
seconds.
ALL CLEAR SIGNAL: A continuous signal, by siren, horn or other audible device,
of two (2) minutes duration at a steady pitch.
BLACKOUT STRUCTURE: Any space so enclosed that any illumination maintained or
existing therein is not visible from any point outside such enclosure.
EMERGENCY: The actual or threatened existence of conditions of disaster or of
extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within this city caused by
such conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot,
earthquake or other conditions including conditions resulting from war or
imminent threat of war, but other than conditions resulting from a labor
controversy, which conditions are or are likely to be beyond the control of the
services, personnel, equipment and facilities of this city, requiring the
combined forces of other political subdivisions to combat.
PERIOD OF AIR RAID ALARM: The interval of time between the giving of the air
raid warning signal and the giving of the next succeeding all clear signal.
(Ord. 466, 1971)
2-8-3: DISASTER COUNCIL:
   A.   Membership: The Reedley disaster council is hereby created and shall
consist of the following:
      1.   The mayor, who shall be chair.
      2.   The director of emergency services, who shall be vice chair.
      3.   The assistant director of emergency services.
      4.   Such chiefs of emergency services as are provided for in a current
emergency plan of the city, adopted pursuant to this chapter.
      5.   Such representative of civic, business, labor, veterans,
professional or other organizations having an official emergency
responsibility, as may be appointed by the director with the advice and consent
of the city council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: It shall be the duty of the Reedley disaster
council, and it is hereby empowered, to develop and recommend for adoption by
the city council, emergency and mutual aid plans and agreements and such
ordinances and resolutions and rules and regulations as are necessary to
implement such plans and agreements. The disaster council shall meet upon call
of the chair or, in his absence from the city or inability to call such
meeting, upon call of the vice chair. (Ord. 466, 1971)
2-8-4: DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES:
   A.   Creation; Appointments:
      1.   There is hereby created the office of director of emergency
services. The administrative officer shall be the director of emergency
services.
      2.   There is hereby created the office of assistant director of
emergency services, who shall be the chief of police.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The director is hereby empowered to:
         a.   Request the city council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a local emergency if the city council is in session, or to issue
such proclamation if the city council is not in session. Whenever a local
emergency is proclaimed by the director, the city council shall take action to
ratify the proclamation within seven (7) days thereafter or the proclamation
shall have no further force or effect.
         b.   Request the governor to proclaim a state of emergency when, in
the opinion of the director, the locally available resources are inadequate to
cope with the emergency.
         c.   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of
this city for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter.
         d.   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff
of the emergency organization of this city; and resolve questions of authority
and responsibility that may arise between them.
         e.   Represent this city in all dealings with public or private
agencies on matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein.
         f.   In the event of the proclamation of a local emergency as herein
provided, the proclamation of a state of emergency by the governor or the
director of the state office of emergency services, or the existence of a state
of war emergency, the director is hereby empowered:
            (1)   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency;
provided, however, such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the city council;
            (2)   To obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other properties
found lacking and needed for the protection of life and property and to bind
the city for the fair value thereof and, if required immediately, to commandeer
the same for public use;
            (3)   To require emergency services of any city officer or employee
and, in the event of the proclamation of a state of emergency in the county in
which this city is located or the existence of a state of war emergency, to
command the aid of as many citizens of this community as he deems necessary in
the execution of his duties; such persons shall be entitled to all privileges,
benefits and immunities as are provided by state law for registered disaster
service workers;
            (4)   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any city
department or agency; and
            (5)   To execute all of his ordinary powers as administrative
officer, all of the special powers conferred upon him by this chapter or by
resolution or emergency plan pursuant hereto adopted by the city council, all
powers conferred upon him by any statute, by any agreement approved by the city
council and by any other lawful authority.
      2.   The assistant director shall, under the supervision of the director
and with the assistance of emergency service chiefs, develop emergency plans
and manage the emergency programs of this city; and shall have such other
powers and duties as may be assigned by the director. (Ord. 466, 1971)
2-8-5: EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Powers And Duties: All officers and employees of this city, together
with those volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all
groups, organizations and persons who may by agreement or operation of law
(including persons impressed into service under the provisions of subsection 2-
8-4B1f(3) of this chapter), be charged with duties incident to the protection
of life and property in this city during such emergency, shall constitute the
emergency organization of the city.
   B.   Structure, Duties And Functions: The structure, duties and functions of
the Reedley emergency organization and the order of emergency succession to the
positions of director of emergency services shall be as adopted by resolution
of the city council. (Ord. 466, 1971)
2-8-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   General: In order to enable the chief of police to conform to the
request of the United States aircraft warning service for the obscuration,
diminution or extinguishment of any illumination, whether in or out of doors,
which increases the vulnerability of the city or any portion thereof, to air
attack, or for the regulation of traffic during the period of air raid alarm,
the chief of police may adopt and promulgate reasonable rules and regulations
for such purposes, and any rules or regulations so adopted by him shall be and
remain in effect for thirty (30) days thereafter, but no longer unless approved
within said time by resolution of the city council; provided, however, that any
rule or regulation so adopted by the chief of police may at any time be
rescinded by resolution of the city council. Violation of any such rule or
regulation so adopted and promulgated is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
   B.   Warning Signals:
      1.   General: The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed to
cause the sounding of an air raid warning signal and of an all clear signal
when, and only when, the district in which the city is located is notified so
to do by the United States aircraft warning service. (Ord. 466, 1971)
      2.   Imitation Of Warning Signals: Any person who shall operate a siren,
whistle or other audible device in such a manner as to simulate an air raid
warning signal or an all clear signal, except upon order of the chief of police
or other proper authority, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
The provisions of every section of this code and every administrative order
made pursuant thereto, requiring any illumination to be maintained in conflict
with this chapter or with an rule or regulation made pursuant to section
2-8-8 of this chapter, shall be deemed suspended during the period between an
air raid warning signal and the next succeeding all clear signal. (Ord. 225,
12-23-1941)
   C.   Control Of Lights:
      1.   Any person who effects or maintains any illumination, or permits any
illumination under his control to be effected or maintained, at any place
during any period of air raid alarm in the hours of darkness, except a blackout
structure, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   The maintenance or leaving of any illumination, except within a
blackout structure, without provision for its extinguishment, within one minute
after the commencement of a period of air raid alarm by a competent person over
the age of eighteen (18) years attendant at the place where such illumination
is controlled, is hereby prohibited.
      3.   Any illumination contrary to the provisions of this chapter, or to
any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated in accordance with section
2-8-8 of this chapter, constitutes a public nuisance, and the same may be
summarily abated by any peace officer, highway patrol officer or firefighter.
Any structure may be entered by any peace officer, highway patrol officer or
firefighter, using reasonable force if necessary, for the purpose of abating
such a nuisance by extinguishing such illumination.
   D.   Directions During Alarm: It shall be unlawful to disobey any lawful
direction or order of a peace officer, highway patrol officer or firefighter
given during a period of air raid alarm, which order is reasonably necessary
for the maintenance of public order or safety or to effect the extinguishment
or obscuration of light.
   E.   Vehicles During Alarm: At the commencement of a period of air raid
alarm, the operator of any motor vehicle shall forthwith bring such vehicle as
far as possible to the side of the street, road or highway off the main
traveled portion thereof, and the operator of such motor vehicle shall bring
such motor vehicle to a stop clear of any crossing, intersection, firehouse,
fireplug, hospital or other emergency depot or area, and during the hours of
darkness shall extinguish all lights therein or thereon, and said motor vehicle
shall remain so situated during the period of air raid alarm unless directed or
ordered to move by a peace officer, highway patrol officer or firefighter.
   F.   Identification: It shall be unlawful for any person without authority,
during any air raid alarm, to use, wear, exhibit or possess any uniform,
insignia, credential or other indication of authority, or any imitation
thereof, adopted and issued by any official civilian defense organization.
(Ord. 466, 1971)
2-8-7: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to blackout emergency vehicles,
which shall include the following:
   A.   All army and navy vehicles;
   B.   All vehicles with United States government credentials indicating the
necessity of emergency movement;
   C.   All authorized emergency vehicles as defined in Vehicle Code 44 and
44.1;
   D.   All vehicles being operated by members of the California state guard
while actually on duty;
   E.   All vehicles of volunteer personnel engaged in the operation of the
aircraft warning service of the fourth interceptor command while such personnel
are actually going to or from their posts of duty;
   F.   All vehicles certified by sheriffs, district attorneys, the California
state highway patrol, police chiefs and fire chiefs, when within the respective
territorial jurisdictions of the certifying office, as being essential to the
preservation of the public peace and safety or to the dissemination of public
information or to the national defense; provided, however, that such vehicles
shall conform to the uniform lighting regulations approved by the department of
motor vehicles and the California state highway patrol for blackout emergency
vehicles. No certificate shall be issued which conflicts with any regulations
or order of the United States army applicable in the area for which the
certificate is issued. (Ord. 466, 1971)
2-8-8: EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including mutual
aid activities, shall be conclusively deemed to be for the direct protection
and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the city. (Ord. 466, 1971)
2-8-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
It shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person during an emergency to: (Ord. 466, 1971;
amd. 2007 Code)
   A.   Wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this chapter, or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by
virtue of this chapter.
   B.   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this chapter (if such act is of such a nature as to give or be likely to
give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives or property of inhabitants
of this city), or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection
thereof.
   C.   Without authority, to wear, carry or display any means of
identification specified by the emergency agency of the state. (Ord. 466, 1971)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-1-1: Short Title
3-1-2: Tax Rates Effective July 1, 2003
3-1-3: Operative Date
3-1-4: Purpose
3-1-5: Contract With State
3-1-6: Sales Tax
3-1-7: Place Of Sale
3-1-8: Use Tax
3-1-9: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
3-1-10: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law
3-1-11: Permit Not Required
3-1-12: Amendments
3-1-13: Enjoining Collection Forbidden
3-1-14: Additional Transactions And Use Tax Rate
3-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as THE UNIFORM LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX CHAPTER.
(Ord. 515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-2: TAX RATES EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2003:
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, effective on and
after one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., July 1, 2003, the sales and
use taxes imposed by the provisions of this chapter shall be reduced from their
current rate of nine hundred fifty five one-thousandths of one percent (0.955%)
to a new rate of nine hundred fifty one-thousandths of one percent (0.950%).
The purpose of this change of rate is to allow the county to receive five one-
thousandths of one percent (0.005%) of the sales and use taxes which would
otherwise be collected by the city, all in accordance with that certain
"Memorandum Of Understanding Between The County Of Fresno, The City Of Reedley
And The Reedley Redevelopment Agency 1 " executed in accordance with
authorization of their respective governing bodies, the city and agency having
authorized execution on March 26, 1991. If for any reason the purposes of this
change of rate are not accomplished, then this section shall cease to be of any
force or effect; provided, notice of change in rate shall be given as required
by law. (Ord. 2003-04, 4-22-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 7 of this code.
3-1-3: OPERATIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be operative on April 1, 1977. (Ord. 575, 3-15-1977)
3-1-4: PURPOSE:
The city council hereby declares that this chapter is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   A.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Revenue and Taxation Code part 1.5 of
division 2;
   B.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the sales and use tax law of the state of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Revenue and Taxation Code part 1.5 of division 2;
   C.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the state board of
equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the state board of equalization in
administering and collecting the California state sales and use taxes;
   D.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of
Revenue and Taxation Code part 1.5 of division 2, minimize the cost of
collecting city sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-5: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the state board of
equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this sales and use tax chapter; provided, that if the city shall
not have contracted with the state board of equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract, and in such a case the operative date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of
such a contract rather than the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the adoption of this chapter. (Ord. 515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-6: SALES TAX:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate stated in section
3-1-2 of this chapter of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in this city on and after the
operative date. (Ord. 515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-7: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out of state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. ln the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the state board of equalization. (Ord. 515, 10-16-
1973)
3-1-8: USE TAX:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
this city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date for storage, use or other consumption in this city at
the rate stated in section
3-1-2 of this chapter of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. (Ord. 515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-9: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code part 1.5 of
division 2, all of the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code part 1 of
division 2 are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully
set forth herein. (Ord. 515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-10: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:
In adopting the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code part 1 of division 2,
wherever the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this city shall be substituted therefor. The substitution, however,
shall not be made when the word "state" is used as part of the title of the
state controller, the state treasurer, the state board of control, the state
board of equalization, the state treasury or the constitution of the state of
California; the substitution shall not be made when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city, or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the state board of equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
chapter; the substitution shall not be made in those sections, including, but
not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the state of California, where the result of the substitution would be to
provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code
part 1 of division 2, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the state under the said provisions of that code; the
substitution shall not be made in Revenue and Taxation Code sections 6701, 6702
(except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828; and the
substitution shall not be made for the word "state" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this state" in Revenue and Taxation Code section 6203 or
in the definition of that phrase in section 6203. (Ord. 515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-11: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Revenue and Taxation
Code section 6067, an additional seller's permit shall not be required by this
chapter. (Ord. 515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-12: AMENDMENTS:
All subsequent amendments of the Revenue and Taxation Code which relate to the
sales and use tax and which are not inconsistent with Revenue and Taxation Code
part 1.5 of division 2 shall automatically become a part of this chapter. (Ord.
515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-13: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or this
city, or against any officer of the state or this city, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this chapter, or Revenue and Taxation Code part 1.5 of
division 2, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.
515, 10-16-1973)
3-1-14: ADDITIONAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX RATE:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, effective on July 1,
2020, there shall be existing in the city a transactions and use tax of three-
quarters of one percent (0.75%). This tax is in addition to the city's existing
sales and use tax as set forth in this chapter, and in addition to the
transactions and use tax set forth in chapter 5-11. The purpose of this
additional transactions and use tax is to fund general governmental services as
set forth in Resolution No. 2019-086 and Uncodified Ordinance No. 2019-006, and
this tax shall be subject to the provisions of Uncodified Ordinance No. 2019-
006. The voters approved this additional transactions and use tax at an
election held for that purpose on March 3, 2020, by a majority of the voters.
(Ord. 2019-005, 10-22-2019)
CHAPTER 2
LICENSING
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Forms; Term
3-2-3: Record Of Licenses
3-2-4: Authority Under License
3-2-5: Conditions Of License
3-2-6: Charitable Institutions And Organizations
3-2-7: Exclusions
3-2-8: Administrative Rules And Regulations
3-2-9: Fees
3-2-10: Payment And Collection Of Fees
3-2-11: Specific Business And Commercial Enterprises
3-2-11-1:    Apartment, Cabin, Dwelling Units, Commercial Rentals
3-2-11-2:    Restaurant On Wheels, Catering Trucks; Ice Cream And Refreshments
On Streets
3-2-11-3:    Auctions, Fire Sales, Etc.
3-2-11-4:    Billposting
3-2-11-5:    Coin Operated Amusement Devices
3-2-11-6:    Contractors
3-2-11-7:    Hauling And Delivery Services
3-2-11-8:    Itinerant Vendors
3-2-11-9:    Distributorships
3-2-11-10:    Professional Services
3-2-11-11:    Retail Sales Businesses
3-2-11-12:    Service Type Businesses
3-2-11-13:    Vending Machines
3-2-12: Private Property Sales
3-2-13: Use Of Public Ways For Business
3-2-14: Enforcement; Violations And Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS: Includes a corporation, association, syndicate, partnership,
profession, trade and occupation and all and every kind of calling, whether or
not carried on for profit. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-2: LICENSE FORMS; TERM:
The finance officer shall prepare and have printed blank licenses for all
classes of business mentioned in this chapter for the term of one year,
beginning July 1 and ending June 30. Printed licenses shall provide for the
signature of the finance officer or his authorized designee or representative
charged with the administration of the business license tax program. (Ord. 683,
4-16-1985)
3-2-3: RECORD OF LICENSES:
The finance officer shall keep a record of all business licenses issued under
this chapter. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985; amd. 2007 Code)
3-2-4: AUTHORITY UNDER LICENSE:
   A.   Conduct Of Business: A license shall authorize a party obtaining the
same to transact the business described in such license in a particular
locality in the city. The issuance of a license pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall not entitle the licensee to engage in any business which for
any reason is in violation of any law or ordinance of the city or higher
authority.
   B.   Duty To Obtain And Pay Fee: It shall be unlawful for any business to
commence, carry on, engage in or continue in the city, any business, trade,
occupation or employment upon which a license tax is imposed by the terms and
provisions of this chapter and for which a license tax is required to be
procured by the terms and provisions of this chapter, without first paying such
license tax and procuring such license as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 683,
4-16-1985)
3-2-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Separate License Required For Each Place Of Business: A separate
license must be obtained on each branch, establishment or separate place of
business. The number of businesses shall be determined by the number of sales
tax permits which have been issued by the California state board of
equalization. Each applicant for a business license shall present proof to the
finance officer that the applicant has obtained all required licenses and
resale permits from the California state board of equalization. (Ord. 775, 8-
25-1992)
   B.   Transfer Of License: Except on the sale of the business or transfer by
operation of law, no license granted or issued shall be in any manner
transferred or assigned, or authorize any person, other than is therein
mentioned or named, to carry on any trade, calling, business, profession or
occupation.
   C.   Duplicate License: A duplicate license may be issued by the finance
officer or his authorized designee to replace any license previously issued
hereunder which has been lost or destroyed upon the licensee filing statement
of such fact, and at the time of filing such statement, paying a duplicate
license fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
   D.   License To Be Posted: Every person having a license under the
provisions of this chapter shall conspicuously exhibit the same in his place of
business, or carry same on his person when he has no fixed place of business,
and produce the same when applying for a renewal or when required to do so by
the finance officer or chief of police.
   E.   Compliance With Other Codes Before License Is Issued: No license shall
be issued under the provisions of this chapter until the applicant has complied
with all of the provisions of the building code, the fire prevention code, the
zoning ordinance 1 and, when applicable, the rules and regulations of the
police department and the county health department. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1, title 3, chapter 2 and title 8 of this code,
  respectively.
3-2-6: CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS:
The securing of business license fees under this chapter shall not apply to any
institution or organization which is conducted, managed or carried on wholly
for the benefit of a charitable purpose, or from which profit is not derived
either directly or indirectly by any person; nor shall any license fee be
required for the conducting of any entertainment, concert, dance, exhibition or
lecture on scientific, historical, literary, religious or moral subjects,
whenever the receipts of such function are to be appropriated to any church,
school or to any religious or benevolent purpose within the city; provided,
however, that nothing in this section contained shall be deemed to exempt any
such institution or organization from complying with the provisions of any law
or regulation of the city requiring such institution or organization to obtain
a fee exempt business license permit signed and approved by the finance officer
or his authorized designee before conducting, managing or carrying on of any
business. The finance officer or his authorized designee may require the filing
of verified statements setting forth all facts upon which the exclusion is
claimed from any person, institution or organization claiming to be excluded by
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-7: EXCLUSIONS:
Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the
provisions hereof shall not be deemed or construed to apply to any of the
following persons or firms:
   A.   Any public utility which pays to the city a tax under a franchise or
similar agreement.
   B.   Banks, including national banking associations, to the extent that a
city may not levy a license tax upon them under the provisions set forth under
California constitution article XIII, section 27.
   C.   Insurance companies and associations, to the extent that a city may not
levy a license tax upon them under the provisions as set forth in California
constitution article XIII, section 28.
   D.   Any person or firm whom the city is not authorized to license under any
law or constitution of the United States or the state of California.
   E.   Any person seventeen (17) years of age or under or seventy (70) years
of age or over whose annual gross receipts derived from business within the
city are less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). A fee exempt business
license permit shall apply.
   F.   Any disabled veteran who is physically unable to obtain a livelihood by
manual labor and having honorable discharge or release papers showing
disability incurred while in service in the armed forces of the United States,
shall have the right to distribute circulars and hawk, peddle and vend any
goods, wares or merchandise without the payment of any license or tax upon the
following terms and conditions:
      1.   The applicant shall furnish all evidence satisfactory to the finance
director or his authorized designee that he is physically unable to obtain a
livelihood by manual labor, an honorably discharged or released member of the
armed forces of the United States and that he sustained disability while
serving in the armed forces of the United States during a war or military
campaign in which the United States was engaged.
      2.   The finance director or his authorized designee may require the
filing of a verified statement from any person or firm claiming to be excluded
by the provisions of this section, which statement shall set forth all the
facts upon which the exclusion is claimed. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-8: ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The finance director, with the approval of the city council, may adopt
reasonable rules and regulations for the purpose of administering the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-9: FEES:
The following table lists those businesses and commercial establishments which
require a license and the fees for said licenses. If there are additional and
supplementary regulations regarding a license, the table lists the section
where such regulations are found. These fees may be amended by resolution of
the city council at such time and in such manner as the city council shall deem
advisable. Unless otherwise stated, a flat rate license fee of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) shall apply:
Section    Business Or OccupatiFee
Section      Business Or Occupation                             Fee
         Advertising, directories, etc. 1                            Flat
          Apartments, commercial rentals, etc.                      
3-2-11-1  Category A                                                  $0.00
          Category B                                                  Flat
         Auctioneers, with or without a fixed place of business      $50.00
3-2-11-3, Auctions, fire sales, bankrupt sales, wreck sales, etc.   
3-6-1     Per day                                                   
                                                                      $50.00
         Barber shops                                                Flat
         Beauty parlors                                              Flat
         Billiard or pool halls                                      Flat
         Billboards                                                  $100.00
          Per face
          Billposting                                               
3-2-11-4  Per day                                                  $50.00
          Per week                                                 $500.00
          Per year                                                 $1,500.00
          Blacksmith shop, welding, garage, repair shop,
          maintenance service, janitorial service or any service
         or repair of similar character and nature, and where        Flat
          only parts, accessories or materials used in the actual
          service or repair are sold
         Bowling or bocci alley or handball court                    Flat
          Brokers, and the handling of personal property, goods,
         wares or merchandise, whether on a commission or            Flat
          otherwise
         Cannery, packing house, processing plant or any             Flat
          industrial plant of similar nature
          Coin operated devices:                                    
                                                                   
          4 or less machines, including pinball machines, video       $10.00
3-2-11-5  games and computer/electronic games per machine, per      
          year                                                      
                                                                   
          Arcade, per year                                          
                                                                      $75.00
3-2-11-6  Contractors (plumbers, electricians, carpenters,            Flat
          painters, etc.) at any scale, including subcontracting
         Dances, public, or similar event by obtaining a permit      $75.00
          from the police department, per day
3-2-11-9  Distributorships                                            Flat
          Hauling and delivery services                             
3-2-11-7  First vehicle                                               $75.00
          Each additional vehicle                                     $25.00
         Hospitals, rest homes, sanitariums, nursing homes or        Flat
          asylums. Nonprofit institutions are exempt
         Hotels and motels                                           Flat
          Itinerant vendor                                          
3-2-11-8  Per day                                                     $50.00
          For special events, per vendor                              $10.00
         Junk dealers, secondhand stores                             Flat
         Massage parlors, massage therapists                         Flat
         Mobile home parks                                           Flat
         Newspapers, printing or publishing                          Flat
         Nurseries (trees, shrubs, plants)                           Flat
3-2-11-10 Professional services                                       Flat
         Public utilities. Companies paying a franchise tax are      Flat
          exempt
3-2-11-1  Rental units                                                Graduated
          Restaurant on wheels, catering trucks, ice cream and      
3-2-11-2  refreshments on streets                                   
          First truck or vehicle                                      $75.00
          Each additional truck or vehicle                            $25.00
3-2-11-11 Retail sales businesses                                     Flat
          Service stations which sell lubricating oil, grease,
         gasoline or other petroleum products at a fixed place of    Flat
          business
3-2-11-12 Service type businesses                                     Flat
3-4-3     Taxicabs                                                    Flat
          Per vehicle
3-2-11-13 Vending machines                                            $10.00
          Per machine
         All other businesses that are not listed or categorized     Flat
 
(Ord. 683, 4-16-1985; amd. Ord. 750, 5-28-1991; Ord. 775, 8-25-1992; Ord. 95-
015, 10-24-1995; Ord. 2001-10, 12-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. Section
  3-2-12 of this chapter shall apply where applicable.
3-2-10: PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF FEES:
   A.   Fees Payable In Lawful United States Money: The license tax imposed by
this chapter shall become due and payable to the city in lawful money of the
United States of America.
   B.   When Fees Due And Payable: All license fees imposed by this chapter
shall be payable in advance and shall be deemed to be delinquent if not so
paid. Penalties for the nonpayment thereof shall be imposed as provided in
subsection D of this section.
   C.   Quarterly Licenses; Proration Of Fee: Annual license fees shall be
prorated if the profession, trade, calling, occupation or business is commenced
in the second or subsequent quarter of the fiscal year. License fees shall be
prorated as of the first day of the first month of the pertaining quarter.
There shall be no proration of business license fees upon termination of the
business.
   D.   Penalty For Nonpayment Of Fees When Due: Subject to other provisions of
this chapter, yearly or quarterly licenses not paid within thirty (30) days
from the due date as provided herein shall be subject to a twenty percent (20%)
penalty per month on the balance due; daily licenses shall be subject to a ten
percent (10%) penalty. New businesses that fail to pay their business license
fee prior to conducting any business shall be subject to a twenty percent (20%)
penalty for each month the license fee remains unpaid.
   E.   Collection Of Fees By Civil Action: The license tax imposed by this
chapter shall be deemed a debt due the city from and against any person who
maintains in, carries on, engages in or conducts in the city any business,
occupation, trade, profession or employment, upon which a license tax is herein
imposed, or for the commencing, engaging in, carrying on or conducting of which
a license is hereby required to be procured without first having paid such
license tax and procured such license according to the terms and provisions of
this chapter. Such persons shall be liable in a civil action in the name of the
city as plaintiff in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the
license tax imposed by this chapter and for cost of suit. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-11: SPECIFIC BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES:
Supplementary regulations for the business and commercial establishments listed
in section
3-2-9 of this chapter are contained in this section. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985; amd.
2007 Code)
3-2-11-1: APARTMENT, CABIN, DWELLING UNITS, COMMERCIAL RENTALS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "units" are defined as
structures under one ownership, whether or not joined together or connected,
whether located on a single plot of ground consisting of one or more city lots
or portions thereof or on different plots of ground located at various places
within the city, and which units in the aggregate shall be intended or
designated for or used as the homes of families or households, living
independently of one another, and in which every such family or household shall
have provided separate living quarters intended for residents.
   B.   License Required: For the business of keeping or conducting apartment
units, cabin units, dwelling units, commercial rentals or similar type rental
units, the annual license fee shall apply in accordance with the graduated
scale basis of computation for rental units in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Categories: The following categories shall apply in accordance with the
number of rental units:
      Category A   One or more up to and including ten (10) units
      Category B   Eleven (11) or more units
(Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-11-2: RESTAURANT ON WHEELS, CATERING TRUCKS; ICE CREAM AND REFRESHMENTS ON
STREETS:
   A.   Definitions:
    RESTAURANT ON WHEELS OR CATERING TRUCKS: Vehicles which sell food,
refreshments, snacks or meals, hot or cold, for consumption by the buyers.
   B.   Licenses Required: Licenses are required or the following businesses:
      1.   Conducting or managing a restaurant on wheels.
      2.   Catering trucks.
      3.   Peddling, vending, selling or offering for sale ice cream, snow
cones, soda water, fruit juices, lemonade or any other soft or temperate
drinks, or any confection, upon the streets of the city.
   C.   Health Inspection Tag: Such businesses shall annually present proof to
the finance director that each such vehicle or truck has obtained a health and
sanitary inspection tag from the Fresno County health department within nine
(9) months of the business license renewal and has paid all health department
license fees. (Ord. 775, 8-25-1992)
3-2-11-3: AUCTIONS, FIRE SALES, ETC.:
   A.   Definitions:
    BANKRUPT SALE: Includes the sale of goods, wares or merchandise which have
been previously purchased from a trustee, receiver or other person in
bankruptcy, or a trustee or receiver in insolvency, or trustee for the benefit
of creditors.
   COMMERCIAL AUCTION: The sale of any object, new or used, through the bid
process whereby the highest bidder obtains the object, and the owner of the
object up for bid does not have to be present at the time of the sale. A
commercial auction may take place on any land zoned for such use and does not
have to be on property owned by the owner of the auction items 1 .
   FIRE SALE OR WRECK SALE: Includes the sale of goods, wares or merchandise
salvaged from fire, wreck or other calamity.
   B.   License Required: A license is required for every person conducting,
managing or carrying on an estate sale, fire sale, wreck sale or bankrupt sale.
(Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-6-1 of this title.
3-2-11-4: BILLPOSTING:
Licenses are required for every person in or carrying on the business of
distributing, depositing, placing or delivering any handbill in or upon any
private yard, walk, porch, steps, mailbox, vestibule, house, residence,
building, automobile or any other private property. No licenses fee shall be
prorated during the year; provided, however, that any license issued or granted
under this section shall not permit, authorize or vest in such license the
privilege of going in or upon private property where such property is posted
pursuant to section
5-4-4 of this code; provided further, that licensee shall not deliver,
distribute, deposit or place handbills in such a manner as to allow the
material distributed to scatter or blow in the wind, thereby causing a
littering problem. Any material distributed pursuant to this section shall
state upon the material the name, address, and telephone number of the
distributor or the agency employing said distributors. Section
3-2-12 of this chapter shall apply to this section when applicable. (Ord. 683,
4-16-1985)
3-2-11-5: COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
   A.   Licenses are required for the business of maintaining, operating or
letting the use of four (4) or less coin operated amusement machines including
pinball machines, video games and computer/electronic games.
   B.   Licenses are required for every person or business engaged in the
business of maintaining or operating an arcade.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, operate or maintain to
be operated any mechanical or electrical amusement device in the city without
first having submitted an application and obtained a permit in writing to do so
from the finance department of the city. Application for such permit shall
contain the following information and statements in addition to whatever
information may be deemed necessary:
      1.   Name of applicant;
      2.   Place where such mechanical amusement device is to be placed,
maintained or operated, and if such mechanical amusement device is to be
placed, maintained or operated in connection with any other business or
calling, and the character of such business or calling;
      3.   The name of the owner of the place where device is to be placed,
maintained or operated;
      4.   A complete description of the type or types of mechanical amusement
device, the number thereof of each and the manner in which it is to be placed,
maintained or operated;
      5.   Statement whether device is wired for electricity;
      6.   The total number of mechanical amusement devices to be placed,
maintained or operated at the location for which the permit is requested; and
      7.   A statement that the mechanical play device for which a permit is
sought is not intended to be, and will not be permitted, for gambling purposes
whatsoever.
   D.   Conditions of permit shall be as follows:
      1.   All amusement machines within the premises shall be visible to and
supervised by an adult who shall be present at all times when any amusement
machine is being operated;
      2.   Except on legal holidays during the school year, persons under the
age of eighteen (18) shall not be allowed to operate amusement machines on
Monday through Friday between and hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to three
o'clock (3:00) P.M. unless accompanied by an authorized agent of the school
district or such person's parent or guardian. It shall be the responsibility of
the adult attendant to enforce this regulation;
      3.   Adequate parking and bicycle racks shall be provided;
      4.   Provisions shall be made to reduce noise caused by the operation of
the amusement machines and the patrons thereof;
      5.   No amusement machine shall be situated in such a way that its use
will violate any applicable fire regulation or hinder the reasonable egress
from and ingress to the premises of the public;
      6.   No amusement machine shall be maintained, operated, conducted or
used, nor kept for such purposes, in or on the premises of any establishment
whose primary business is the retail sale of alcoholic beverages within ten
feet (10') of the liquor retail department of any multi-department business
establishment. This subsection shall not prohibit the operation of amusement
machines in bona fide clubs, bars, saloons, taverns or restaurants which are
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages;
      7.   No amusement machine as herein defined shall be maintained,
operated, conducted or used, nor kept for such purposes, within any place which
is closer than three hundred feet (300') from any public or private school
which conducts classes for any of the grades from kindergarten through the
grade twelve (12);
      8.   All amusement machines shall have posted thereon, in a conspicuous
place, a decal or label for identification purposes on which is written the
name, address and telephone number, if any, of the owner or operator thereof;
      9.   Every person who maintains a coin operated machine within the city
shall give a facsimile of his license or permit to the owner, lessee, manager
or his agent of the establishment at which said machines are to be located;
      10.   All coin operated machines for which there is no facsimile of the
license or permit for the person maintaining or operating the machine(s) shall
be removed from the premises by the city and held for thirty (30) days. If
unclaimed after thirty (30) days, such machines will be considered abandoned
and shall be disposed of as provided for in the disposition of unclaimed
property. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-11-6: CONTRACTORS:
Licenses are required for every person transacting and carrying on the business
of contracting in any occupation (plumbers, electricians, carpenters, painters
and the like) on any scale, including subcontracting. An "owner/builder" is a
person who acts as or employs a contractor, subcontractor, specialty contractor
or workers under his supervision and direction by the hour or day, for the
purpose of constructing improvements on real property owned by him within the
city. He shall pay the same fees as a general builder contractor unless his
only activity is construction on his property which is not offered or intended
for sale within one year from date of completion. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-11-7: HAULING AND DELIVERY SERVICES:
   A.   License Required: Licenses are required for every person who delivers
goods, wares or merchandise of any kind as a retail delivery business, or who
provides any type of service by use of vehicles in the city, on a predetermined
and regular business schedule; and further provided, that if the vehicles sell
or deliver food or food products, said business shall annually present proof to
the finance officer that each such vehicle or truck has obtained a health and
sanitary inspection tag from the Fresno County health department within nine
(9) months of the business license renewal and has paid all health department
fees.
   B.   Exemptions: If the vehicle delivery is incidental or occasional within
the city, the license fee shall be exempt. The license fee shall also be exempt
if the business is a regulated carrier of merchandise by motor vehicle. Every
business claiming to be exempt under the regulation of interstate commerce by
the United States, shall file with the finance officer of his authorized
designee statements disclosing the following:
      1.   The name and location of the person for which the orders are to be
solicited or secured;
      2.   The name of the nearest local or state manager, if any, and his
address;
      3.   The kind of goods, wares, merchandise or services to be delivered or
performed;
      4.   The place from which the same are to be shipped or forwarded or the
services performed;
      5.   The method of solicitation or taking orders;
      6.   The location of any warehouse, factory or plant within the state;
      7.   The method of delivery;
      8.   The name and location of the residence of the applicant; and
      9.   Any other facts necessary to establish such claim of exemption.
(Ord. 775, 8-25-1992)
3-2-11-8: ITINERANT VENDORS:
Every person engaged in the business or occupation of itinerant vendor shall
pay a license fee as set out in section
3-2-9 of this chapter. The words "itinerant vendor" shall be construed to mean
and include any person, whether principal or agent: a) who performs any of the
acts of "hawker", "solicitor", "merchandiser", "salesperson", "peddler" or
"vendor" as defined in section
5-5-1 of this code, or b) who engages in a temporary and transient business in
the city, selling articles of wearing apparel, dry goods, fancy goods, notions,
jewelry, cutlery, groceries, machinery, vehicles of all kinds and types,
hardware, tinware, mill products or merchandise of any class or character, or
who acts as a telephone solicitor with the intention of continuing said
business in the city for a period of not more than ninety (90) consecutive
days, and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, hires, leases or
occupies any hotel or motel room or any other room, doorway, vacant lot,
building or other place for the exhibition or sale of goods, wares, merchandise
or other thing of value. A person or firm shall not be relieved from the
provisions of this section by reason of temporarily associating with any local
dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. The provisions as set forth shall not
apply to commercial travelers or selling agents, selling their goods to
dealers, whether selling for present or future delivery, by sample or
otherwise, nor to persons selling fruit, vegetables, eggs, butter or other farm
or ranch products of their own production, or for qualifying special events as
determined by the guidelines on file in the office of the city clerk. For such
special events, sponsoring organizations shall pay the fee set out in section
3-2-9 of this chapter per itinerant vendor. (Ord. 2001-10, 12-11-2001)
3-2-11-9: DISTRIBUTORSHIPS:
Licenses are required for any person who engages in the business of selling
goods, wares, merchandise or any other thing of value via the distribution of
catalogues or handbills to private residences for the purpose of selling their
goods, wares, merchandise or other items of value, and said person has a fixed
address whereby said requests are received, shall be termed a distributorship.
Section
3-2-12 of this chapter shall apply to this section when applicable. (Ord. 683,
4-16-1985)
3-2-11-10: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES:
Licenses are required for each person who, at a fixed place of business in the
city, conducts a business or profession as hereinafter designated in one
office, or suite of offices:
   Chiropodist
   Chiropractor
   Civil engineer
   Dentistry
   Law
   Medicine or surgery
   Optometry
   Osteopathy
   Physical therapists
   Public accountant
   Surveyors
   Veterinary medicine or surgery
   Any other professionals not herein mentioned
(Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-11-11: RETAIL SALES BUSINESSES:
Licenses are required of businesses engaged in retail sales. Businesses of a
retail nature include, but are not limited to, the following:
   Animal feed stores
   Appliances, electrical
   Appliances, general
   Automobiles, new and used
   Bakery
   Butcher
   Candy stores
   Clothing stores/wearing apparel
   Farm equipment
   Florists
   Furniture
   General merchandising
   Grocery store
   Hardware
   Jewelry, precious jewels, precious metals
   Lumber and lumber products
   Machinery
   Office supplies and equipment
   Pharmacies and drug stores
   Restaurants
   Shoe store
   Sporting goods
   Tailor
(Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-11-12: SERVICE TYPE BUSINESSES:
Licenses are required of businesses that are considered to be of a service
nature. Service nature businesses include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   Car washes
   Computer agencies
   Data processing services
   Employment agencies
   Gardeners
   Janitorial services
   Laundromats
   Motion picture theaters
   Photographers (fixed place of business)
   Real estate agency
   Transcribers
   Travel agency
   Window cleaning
(Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-11-13: VENDING MACHINES:
Licenses are required for the business of maintaining and operating mechanical
vending machines whereby merchandise is sold to the public from such machines
by the insertion of coins therein. (Refer to subsections 3-2-11-5D9 and D10 for
governing restrictions). No coin operated cigarette machine is to be used by
any person under eighteen (18) years of age. No business license fee or
identification shall be required for the maintenance or operation of:
   A.   Any United States postage stamp machine;
   B.   Any machine dispensing sanitary or hygiene articles, drinking cups,
towels or medicine, when the machine is entirely owned or supplied by the owner
or operator of the premises where installed and is maintained solely for the
convenience of the employees, visitors or customers;
   C.   Any machine or device dispensing newspapers or magazines;
   D.   Any machine operated by a nonprofit organization for charitable
purposes; or
   E.   Any machine owned by a local merchant on the same premises where his
business is located and for which he pays a business license fee to the city.
(Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
3-2-12: PRIVATE PROPERTY SALES:
Those vendors licensed under sections
3-2-9,
3-2-11-2 and
3-2-11-8 of this chapter may remain stationary on private, nonresidential
property for periods of not to exceed thirty (30) minutes in any two (2) hour
period for the purposes of selling, while not on the public right of way, only
with the written permission of the property owner and only so long as the
private, nonresidential property is not situated closer than one thousand
(1,000) linear feet from any restaurant or food concession which is also
licensed under this chapter. (Ord. 775, 8-25-1992)
3-2-13: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS FOR BUSINESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, including those businesses and vendors
licensed under this chapter, to use any public right of way (public streets,
roads, alleys or sidewalks) within the city for the purpose of engaging in any
type of business, including selling therefrom, soliciting donations, taking a
census or taking orders for any goods, wares or merchandise, without the prior
written approval of the city manager or his designee, which approval may be
given to those vendors licensed under sections
3-2-9,
3-2-11-2 and
3-2-11-8 of this chapter, subject to the following limitations:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, the vendor shall not make sales while
stopped or parked in the public right of way except by prior appointment with
or on the invitation of an identifiable buyer. Stopping or parking shall be out
of established travel lanes.
   B.   No such vendor shall remain stationary in the public right of way for
more than one hour at any location in any city block in any two (2) hour
period, and shall not stop or be situated closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any restaurant, concession or other mobile vendor.
   C.   Following such sale, the vendor's vehicle shall move a distance of not
less than one thousand feet (1,000') from the current stop and shall not stop
or be situated closer than one thousand feet (1,000') from any restaurant,
concession or other mobile vendor. The requirement to move one thousand feet
(1,000') does not apply to vendors who do not normally operate from a
semistationary location, i.e., bakery vendors, ice cream trucks, ice cream
pushcarts, snack pushcarts and bicycle powered vendors.
   D.   No use of the public right of way as governed by this section shall
occur prior to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   E.   A business license shall not be issued to, and any business license
previously issued shall be revoked of, any person using a public right of way
as governed by this section who fails to collect, report or remit to the state
of California franchise tax board all applicable sales taxes required to be
collected, reported or remitted by him.
   F.   A business license shall not be issued to, and any business license
previously issued shall be revoked, any person using a public right of way as
governed by this section who fails to obtain and maintain in full force a
public liability policy in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00),
naming the city as an additional insured on said policy, written proof of which
shall be made at the time the business license is issued.
   G.   The provisions of this section shall apply to all mobile vendors
licensed to conduct business in the city. For purposes of this section, a
"mobile vendor" is defined as any person who sells from any motor vehicle or
pushcart, box, basket, receptacle, stand, wagon or any other type of vehicle.
(Ord. 98-05, 6-9-1998)
3-2-14: ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the finance director or his
authorized designee to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and the chief of
police shall render such assistance in the enforcement hereof as may, from time
to time, be required by the finance director or the city council. The finance
director, his authorized designee and any police officer shall have the power
and authority to enter, free of charge, and at any reasonable time, any place
of business required to be licensed herein, and demand an exhibition of its
license. Any person having such license heretofore issued, in his possession or
under his control, who wilfully fails to exhibit the same on demand, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the penalties provided for by the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the finance director and/or
his authorized designee to cause a complaint to be filed against any and all
persons found to be violating any of said provisions.
   B.   Misrepresentation: No person shall knowingly or intentionally
misrepresent to any officer or employee of this city any material fact in
procuring the license or permit herein provided for.
   C.   Violations Of Provisions: The engaging in business without first having
procured a license from the city to do so, or without complying with any and
all the regulations of such business as set forth in this chapter, shall be
deemed a separate violation for each and every day such business is carried on.
The conviction and punishment of any person having engaged in any business
without a license shall not excuse or exempt such person from the payments of
any license fees due or unpaid at the time of conviction, and nothing set forth
in this chapter shall prevent the criminal prosecution for any violation of any
provision of this chapter.
   D.   License Suspension And Revocation: In the event that the finance
director and/or the chief of police of the city has reasonable cause to believe
and does believe that any licensee or other person employed by or representing
such licensee is violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any other
law or ordinance relating to the business of the licensee, he shall have power
to and shall be authorized to suspend such license and all permits issued. If
no written appeal is filed with the city clerk protesting such suspension
within two (2) days of the date of such suspension, such suspension shall be
deemed permanent and all such licenses or permits issued thereunder shall be
deemed revoked.
   E.   Appeals To City Council: In the event that any applicant desires to
appeal from any order, denial of exemption, order of suspension, or any other
ruling of the finance director, the chief of police or any other officer of the
city, made under the provisions of this chapter dealing with itinerant
peddlers, solicitors, vendors and others, such applicant or any other person
aggrieved thereby shall file written notice of such appeal with the city clerk
and such matters shall be heard at the next regular meeting of the city
council, at which time the city council shall hear and receive evidence,
written and oral upon all matters involved. The decision of the city council
shall be final upon all parties concerned. (Ord. 683, 4-16-1985)
CHAPTER 3
REAL PROPERTY TAX STAMP
SECTION:
3-3-1: Title
3-3-2: Tax Rate
3-3-3: Debt Exemption
3-3-4: Governmental Exemption
3-3-5: Priority Established
3-3-6: Securities And Exchange Commission
3-3-7: Partnerships
3-3-8: Administration Of Provisions
3-3-9: Refunds
3-3-10: Liability Designated
3-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF REEDLEY. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in
Revenue and Taxation Code part 6.7 (commencing with section 11901) of division
2. (Ord. 408, 12-26-1967)
3-3-2: TAX RATE:
There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements, or other realty sold within the said city shall be granted,
assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or
purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their direction, when the
consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive of the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale)
exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00) a tax at the rate of twenty seven and
one-half cents ($0.275) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fractional
part thereof. (Ord. 408, 12-26-1967)
3-3-3: DEBT EXEMPTION:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to any instrument in
writing given to secure a debt. (Ord. 408, 12-26-1967)
3-3-4: GOVERNMENTAL EXEMPTION:
The United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, any state or
territory, or political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia shall
not be liable for any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter with respect to any
deed, instrument or writing to which it is a party, but the tax may be
collected by assessment from any other party liable therefor. (Ord. 408, 12-26-
1967)
3-3-5: PRIORITY ESTABLISHED:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to the making,
delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:
   A.   Confirmed under the federal bankruptcy act, as amended;
   B.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
railroad corporation, as defined in United States code title II section 205
subdivision (m), as amended;
   C.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
corporation, as defined in United States code title II section 506 subdivision
(3), as amended; or
   D.   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization is
effected.
Subsections A to D, inclusive, of this section shall only apply if the making,
delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs within five
(5) years from the date of such confirmation, approval of change. (Ord. 408,
12-26-1967)
3-3-6: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to the making or
delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the securities and
exchange commission, as defined in internal revenue code of 1954 section 1083
subdivision (a); but only if:
   A.   The order of the securities and exchange commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of United States code title 15 section
79k, relating to the public utility holding company act of 1935;
   B.   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
   C.   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order. (Ord. 408, 12-26-
1967)
3-3-7: PARTNERSHIPS:
   A.   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this chapter by reason of any transfer of an interest in a
partnership or otherwise, if:
      1.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of internal revenue code of 1954 section 708;
and
      2.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   B.   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of
internal revenue code of 1954 section 708, for purposes of this chapter, such
partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby there was
conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien or
encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the time
of such termination.
   C.   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this chapter by
reason of a termination described in subsection B of this section, and any
transfer pursuant thereto, with respect to the realty held by such partnership
at the time of such termination. (Ord. 408, 12-26-1967)
3-3-8: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The county recorder shall administer this chapter in conformity with the
provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code part 6.7 of division 2 and the
provisions of any county ordinance adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 408, 12-26-
1967)
3-3-9: REFUNDS:
Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be governed
by the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code chapter 5 (commencing with
section 5096) of part 9 of division 1. (Ord. 408, 12-26-1967)
3-3-10: LIABILITY DESIGNATED:
Any tax imposed pursuant to section
3-3-2 of this chapter shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues
any document or instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the
same is made, signed or issued. (Ord. 408, 12-26-1967)
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS; VEHICLES FOR HIRE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Vehicle Permit Required
3-4-3: Application For Permit; Fee
3-4-4: Application Hearing; Notice
3-4-5: Denial Of Permit
3-4-6: Unlawful Service Prohibited
3-4-7: Revocation Of Permit; Hearing
3-4-8: Taxicabs To Be Numbered
3-4-9: Driver's Permit Required
3-4-10: Investigation Of Applicant
3-4-11: Revocation Of Driver's Permit
3-4-12: Changes In Rates Or Vehicles Reported
3-4-13: Vehicles To Be Operated By Owner
3-4-14: Taxicabs And Limousines; Display Rate Schedule
3-4-15: Schedule Of Fares Furnished City
3-4-16: Liability Insurance Required
3-4-17: Inspection Of Vehicles
3-4-18: Police Right Of Entry
3-4-19: Condition Of Vehicles
3-4-20: Duties Of Drivers
3-4-21: Operation Of Vehicle Without Proper Insignia
3-4-22: Permit Holders Subject To Applicable Laws
3-4-23: Enforcement Of Provisions
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them:
AUTOMOBILE FOR HIRE: Every automobile or motor propelled vehicle by means of
which passengers are transported for hire upon any public street in the city
and not over a regular or defined route and irrespective of whether the
operation extends beyond the limits of the city or not, except vehicles
embraced in the term taxicab and except vehicles and "transportation companies"
as herein defined, which include "rental cars".
TAXICAB: Every automobile or motor propelled vehicle by means of which
passengers are transported for hire upon any public street in the city and not
over a particular or defined route, and irrespective of whether the operations
extend beyond the boundary limits of the city or not, where charge for the
transportation is measured by the distance traveled or by the time required for
such transportation, or both, excepting vehicles or "transportation companies"
as herein defined.
TRANSPORTATION COMPANIES: The term "transportation companies" shall be
synonymous with the phrase "transportation company" as defined in that certain
act of the legislature of the state, approved May 10, 1917, providing for the
supervision of transportation of persons and property for compensation over
public highways by automobiles, jitney buses, auto trucks, stages and auto
stages and all amendments to the act 1 . (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 53075.5; Veh.C. § 16501.
3-4-2: VEHICLE PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate an automobile for hire or a taxicab upon any
public street within the city without first having obtained a permit to so do
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and without complying with
all the provisions of this code. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Any person desiring to obtain a permit required by section
3-4-2 of this chapter shall pay the fee set out in section
3-2-9 of this title and shall make application for the permit as set forth:
(Ord. 95-009, 6-13-1995)
   A.   The name and address of the applicant, and if the same be a
corporation, the names of its principal officers, or if the same is a
partnership, association or fictitious company, the names of the partners or
persons comprising the association or company with the addresses of each.
   B.   A statement as to whether the permit is desired for an automobile for
hire or taxicab.
   C.   A description of every motor vehicle which the applicant proposes to
use, giving:
      1.   Trade name, year and model.
      2.   Motor and serial number.
      3.   State license number.
      4.   Seating capacity.
      5.   Body style.
      6.   The street number and exact location of the place where the
applicant proposes to stand each such automobile.
   D.   Proposed schedule of rates or fares to be charged for carrying
passengers in such automobile.
   E.   The distinctive color scheme, name, monogram or insignia which shall be
used on the automobile.
   F.   The past experience of the applicant in the matter to which the
requested permit pertains; and the name, address and past experience of the
person to be in charge of the premises or business.
   G.   Whether or not any permit has been revoked, and if so, the
circumstances of the revocation.
   H.   Such further information as the city council, or such official of the
city to whom the application may be referred, may require. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-4: APPLICATION HEARING; NOTICE:
Upon receipt of any application referred to in section
3-4-3 of this chapter, the city clerk shall set a time, not less than ten (10)
or more than thirty (30) days thereafter, for the hearing of the application
before the city council and shall give notice of the time so set at least seven
(7) days before the date of the hearing to the applicant by mail at the address
set forth in the application and by mail to all other permit holders.
At the time set for the hearing of the application, the mayor and city council
may examine the applicant and all persons interested in the matter set forth in
the application, and shall determine whether or not the public interest,
convenience and necessity, require the issuance of the permit applied for. It
shall, by resolution, order the license clerk to issue a permit, subject to the
filing and approval of an undertaking as hereinafter provided in section
3-4-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-5: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The following reasons shall be sufficient for denial of the permit:
   A.   The application is not in the form and does not contain the information
required to be contained therein by this chapter.
   B.   The vehicles described therein are inadequate or unsafe for the
purposes for which they are to be used.
   C.   The color scheme, name, monogram or insignia to be used upon the
vehicles shall be in conflict with or imitate any color scheme, name, monogram
or insignia used by any other person in such manner as to be misleading or tend
to deceive or defraud the public.
   D.   The applicant has, at some time prior, had a permit for the operation
of automobiles for hire or taxicabs revoked for reason.
   E.   It shall appear to the city council that there are a sufficient number
of taxicabs and automobiles for hire in the city to fully serve the public and
that the granting of more permits would unduly congest traffic and interfere
with the free use of the public streets by the public, and that the public
interest, convenience and necessity do not require the issuance of the permit.
   F.   The persons holding permits for the operation of taxicabs or
automobiles for hire are under efficient management and are adequately serving
the public under normal conditions. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-6: UNLAWFUL SERVICE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner granted a permit hereunder to conduct any
operation or give any service other than the service authorized by his permit
granted by the city council in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT; HEARING:
The city council shall have the power to suspend or revoke any or all of the
owner's permits granted under the provisions of this chapter when it shall have
determined that any of the provisions hereof have been violated or that any
holder of a permit shall have failed to comply with the terms of the permit or
the rules and regulations of the city council pertaining to the operation of
and to the extent, character and quality of the service of any such vehicles.
Before revocation of the permit, the owner shall be entitled to a hearing
thereon before the city council, and shall be notified thereof.
Notice of hearing on such suspension or revocation shall be in writing, and
shall be served at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing
thereon, such service to be upon the holder of the permit, or its manager or
agent, and the notice shall state the grounds of the complaint against the
holder of the permit and shall also state the time when, and the place where,
the hearing will be held. In the event the holder of the permit cannot be
found, or service of the notice cannot be made upon him in the manner herein
provided, then a copy of the notice shall be mailed postage prepaid, addressed
to the owner, at his last known address, at least ten (10) days prior to the
date of the hearing.
The city council shall have the power to determine, after hearing, all issues
relative to granting or denying the owner's permits for taxicabs, automobiles
for hire or stands. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-8: TAXICABS TO BE NUMBERED:
Each taxicab operated pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be numbered
to correspond with the number appearing on the license. The number shall be
printed upon the body of the taxicab in numbers not less than four inches (4")
nor more than six inches (6") in height, in a position approved from time to
time by the license officer. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-9: DRIVER'S PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle required by this
chapter to obtain a permit, without first obtaining a driver's permit or
temporary driver's permit, issued pursuant to this chapter, so to do.
   A.   The applicant for a permit shall appear personally before the license
inspector and file with him an application, in writing, upon blanks to be
furnished by the license inspector.
   B.   When an applicant has applied for a driver's permit, the license
inspector shall issue a temporary driver's permit. The temporary driver's
permit shall have written or printed thereon the expiration date, and also the
fact that the permit shall automatically become null and void after the
expiration date. After the expiration of the time so allotted, the temporary
permit shall be of no further force and effect and shall not be renewed or
extended. (Ord. 95-009, 6-13-1995)
3-4-10: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
At the time of the issuance of the temporary permit, the applicant for the
temporary permit shall be fingerprinted by, and his record filed, in the police
department. As soon as possible thereafter, the chief of police shall make an
investigation regarding the character and moral fitness of the applicant. If
satisfied that the operation by the applicant of the vehicle authorized to be
operated under the terms of this chapter will not be detrimental to the public
health, peace, safety or welfare, the chief of police shall so notify the
finance department and the license inspector shall, upon the expiration of the
applicant's temporary driver's permit, issue the applicant a driver's permit in
the manner hereinafter provided. Otherwise, he shall deny the application.
   A.   No driver's permit or temporary driver's permit shall be issued to any
applicant who is under the age of twenty one (21) years, or who has failed to
obtain a driver's permit from the state, or who has, to the knowledge of the
chief of police, been convicted of a felony, or who shall be deemed by him to
be morally unfit.
   B.   The finance department shall keep a copy of the driver's permit on
file. The driver's permit shall constitute evidence of compliance with the
terms of this chapter, but shall be subject to all other applicable laws, or
orders of the city. The driver's permit shall be effective until the expiration
date printed thereon which shall not be later than June 30 next following the
date of issuance, unless suspended or revoked as herein provided. (Ord. 456, 8-
1970; amd. Ord. 95-009, 6-13-1995)
3-4-11: REVOCATION OF DRIVER'S PERMIT:
The city council, the chief of police or the city manager shall have the power
to revoke or suspend any driver's permit issued hereunder in the event the
holder thereof shall be found guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter or shall be found guilty of reckless driving or for the violation
of any other law, which violation, in the sound discretion of the officials,
shall be deemed sufficient evidence of the fact that the driver is not a
competent person to operate the motor vehicle for which the driver's permit was
issued. In the event of such revocation or suspension of the driver's permit
and such certificate as may be issued in connection therewith, shall be, by the
holder thereof, immediately surrendered to the chief of police. (Ord. 456, 8-
1970)
3-4-12: CHANGES IN RATES OR VEHICLES REPORTED:
In the event that any permit holder desires to change his schedule of rates and
charges or the color scheme, monogram or insignia used on automobiles for hire
or taxicabs, or to substitute any vehicle in place of the vehicle described in
the application for permit, or to increase or decrease the number of vehicles
used by him as automobiles for hire or taxicabs, he shall make application for
permission to do so from the finance department, which permission shall be
granted by the city council in its discretion if the city council deems the
public interest, necessity and convenience will be subserved by the change, and
if the permit holder has complied with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
456, 8-1970)
3-4-13: VEHICLES TO BE OPERATED BY OWNER:
Any motor vehicle for which a permit has been issued hereunder shall be
operated by the owner personally, or his employee, on his behalf, and it shall
be unlawful for any owner or driver to enter into any contract, agreement or
understanding between themselves by the terms of which the driver pays to, or
on account of, the owner a fixed or determinable sum for the use of the
vehicle. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-14: TAXICABS AND LIMOUSINES; DISPLAY RATE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Taxicabs: Every taxicab shall have displayed in a conspicuous place in
the passenger compartment thereof at all times a sign stating in clear legible
characters the rates of fares charged for carrying passengers therein, the
owner's name or the fictitious name under which he operates, the business
address and telephone number of the owner and the license number furnished by
the finance department.
   B.   Limousines: The driver of every chauffeured limousine shall have in his
possession at all times rate cards upon which shall be printed the name and
address of the owner of the vehicle and the rates authorized to be charged for
the chauffeured limousine service. Every person making inquiry regarding the
rates charged by the operator of the chauffeured limousine service shall be
furnished with a copy of the printed rates. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-15: SCHEDULE OF FARES FURNISHED CITY:
All rates shall be first approved by the city council. All owners or operators
of taxicabs and automobiles for hire shall file with the finance department
reasonable and uniform tariffs or schedules of fares. It shall be unlawful to
charge, collect or receive any different compensation for the use of the
taxicab or automobile for hire than that specified in the tariff or schedule of
fares on file and at the time in effect. The tariffs and schedules of fares
shall not be amended except with the consent of the city council. (Ord. 456, 8-
1970)
3-4-16: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or driver to drive or operate any taxicab or
automobile for hire, unless there is on file with the finance department and in
full force and effect at all times while the taxicab or automobile for hire is
being operated, a true copy of a policy of insurance, approved by the city
council, in a solvent and responsible company, insuring the owner of the
taxicab, or automobile for hire, giving the manufacturer's motor number and
serial number thereof, against loss by reason of injury or damage that may
result to persons or property from the negligent operation or defective
construction of the taxicab or automobile for hire, or from the violation of
this chapter or of the laws of the state. The policy may be limited to fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000.00) for injury or death of one person, and to thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000.00) for the injury or death of two (2) or more
persons in the same accident, and to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for
injury or destruction of property, and shall increase so as to conform to any
future changes in the law regarding vehicles and taxicabs. The policy of
insurance shall guarantee the payment to any and all persons suffering injury
or damage to person or property, of any final judgment rendered against the
owner, within the limits herein mentioned irrespective of the financial
condition or any acts or omissions of the owner and shall insure to the benefit
of the persons, if at any time, the policy of insurance shall be cancelled by
the company issuing the same, the city council shall require the owner to
replace the policy with another policy or bond as herein provided, satisfactory
to the city council, and in default thereof may revoke the owner's permit and
license. (Ord. 456, 8-1970; amd. Ord. 459, 11-17-1970)
3-4-17: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
Before a permit is issued to any owner, the vehicle for which such permit is
requested, shall be delivered to a place designated by the chief of police for
inspection, and the chief of police shall designate agents to inspect such
vehicles, their equipment, including lights and brakes, to ascertain whether
such vehicles and equipment comply with the provisions of this chapter. In
addition, subject to the approval of the city council, the chief of police may
set a time interval for inspection of said vehicles, and list the items to be
checked during said inspections. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-18: POLICE RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The chief of police, or any member of the police department under his
direction, shall have the right, at any time after displaying proper
identification, to enter into or upon any permit holding taxicab or rental car
for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-19: CONDITION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Unsafe And Unsightly Vehicles: Any taxicab or rental car which is
found, after any such inspection, to be unsafe, unclean or unsightly or in any
way unsuitable for taxicab or rental car service shall be immediately ordered
out of service, and before again being placed in service, shall be placed in a
safe and proper condition.
   B.   Sanitary Requirements: The interior of every taxicab or rental car
shall be thoroughly cleaned at least once in every twenty four (24) hours, and
all property of value left in any such vehicle by a passenger shall be
immediately reported by the owner thereof to the chief of police. (Ord. 456, 8-
1970)
3-4-20: DUTIES OF DRIVERS:
   A.   Direct Route Required: Every driver of a taxicab who is engaged to
carry passengers shall take the most direct route possible that will carry the
passengers safely and expeditiously to their destination, unless otherwise
directed by a passenger.
   B.   Additional Passengers: When a taxicab is engaged, the persons engaging
the taxicab shall have the exclusive right to the full and complete use of the
passenger compartment, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of the taxicab
to solicit or carry additional passengers therein; provided, however, that
where the city council finds that public necessity requires the grouping of
passengers in taxicabs, the city council may issue, after application, special
written permit, which permit shall specifically set forth the rules and
regulations under which passenger grouping is permitted. It shall be unlawful
for any driver to operate any taxicab in violation of any of the rules and
regulations set forth in the special permit.
   C.   Seating Capacity: The number of passengers which may be carried in any
vehicle covered by this chapter shall be limited to the seating capacity of the
vehicle as specified by the manufacturer. No person shall be carried in the
vehicle who is required to share in any way the seating space occupied by
another, nor shall any person be carried who is required to occupy any space in
or on the vehicle which does not provide a seat. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-21: OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT PROPER INSIGNIA:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any taxicab other than
one bearing the color scheme, name, monogram or insignia set forth in the
application for the permit as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to change the color scheme, name, monogram or insignia without first
having obtained the consent of the city council. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-22: PERMIT HOLDERS SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE LAWS:
Every person holding a permit issued under the terms of this chapter shall at
all times be subject to the laws of the state and all provisions of this code
not in conflict with this chapter. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
3-4-23: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 456, 8-1970)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL SALES AND EVENTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Permit Required
3-5-2: Restrictions
3-5-3: Garage And Similar Sales
3-5-4: Applicability Of Provisions
3-5-5: Sign Restrictions
3-5-6: Exceptions
3-5-7: Sidewalk And Open Space Sales
3-5-8: Carnivals, Fiestas, Circuses, Bazaars, Parades And Similar Public Shows
3-5-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person in any zone district in the city shall sell or advertise in any
manner whatever a sale of new or used merchandise at a garage, yard, patio or
similar sale without obtaining a special permit from the finance department and
complying with the rules and regulations for same. (Ord. 560, 6-1-1976)
3-5-2: RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall sell or offer for sale personal property in any residential
zone except personal property owned, utilized and maintained by such person or
members of his family on or in connection with the premises which they occupy.
Personal property offered for sale shall not be displayed in the front or side
yards of any such premises; provided, however, that a vehicle offered for sale
may be displayed on a permanently constructed driveway within such front or
side yards. (Ord. 560, 6-1-1976)
3-5-3: GARAGE AND SIMILAR SALES:
In the event miscellaneous items of personal property are to be offered for
sale to the general public by means of a garage sale, patio sale or other sale
similarly conducted, the person conducting such sale shall file an affidavit
with the finance department stating that all the property to be sold is his own
personal property and has not been acquired or consigned to him for purposes of
resale. (Ord. 560, 6-1-1976)
3-5-4: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all such sales whether conducted
by the owner, tenants, their agents, consignees or otherwise and/or by profit
and nonprofit organizations.
   A.   The license fee for sales covered by this section may be established
and modified from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 95-009,
6-13-1995)
   B.   The maximum period of sale shall be three (3) days.
   C.   The maximum number of such sales at said address shall be limited to
two (2) per year while the land is vested in the same ownership.
   D.   The finance and police departments shall enforce the provisions of this
section and may establish other necessary rules and regulations pertaining to
the sale affecting the public health and safety, and providing a reasonable
area for public travel.
   E.   The police department shall have the right to order the withdrawal from
sale of any items which do not comply with this section. (Ord. 560, 6-1-1976)
3-5-5: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
No signs shall be posted in any place other than the property where the sale is
being conducted. Said signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet in size. (Ord.
560, 6-1-1976)
3-5-6: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Sections
3-5-1 through
3-5-5 of this chapter shall not apply to sales of personal property made under
court order or process.
   B.   In the case of churches, public schools, fraternal organizations and
other nonprofit entities, sales for charitable purposes may be conducted in
residential zones upon approval of the city manager.
   C.   In the case of persons who otherwise qualify under the provisions of
this chapter, a sale conducted by a group of such persons, either within a
gated community, within a mobile home park, or within a neighborhood, may be
permitted for a period not to exceed three (3) consecutive days, upon the
payment by the group of a license fee in the amount established by the city's
annual fee resolution. (Ord. 97-14, 10-28-1997)
3-5-7: SIDEWALK AND OPEN SPACE SALES:
No person in the city shall sell or advertise in any manner whatsoever a sale
of any goods or merchandise at sidewalk or open space sales, auctions or
conduct a promotion for fundraising by nonprofit organizations without
obtaining a special permit from the finance department. A permit will be
required for each sale, five (5) days or more before sale.
   A.   Subsections
3-5-4D and E of this chapter shall apply to open space sales.
   B.   No more than four (4) sidewalk sales per calendar year shall be
permitted.
   C.   For sales and fundraising promotions, and auctions by nonprofit
organizations lasting in excess of three (3) days, the applicant shall first
apply and obtain a special use permit from the planning commission in
accordance with this code.
   D.   In all cases, the permittee will furnish to the city a certificate of
insurance regarding public liability in an amount satisfactory to the city
manager. The city manager, or designee, may allow recognized merchants or other
groups to provide group insurance coverage for the benefit of the designated
members.
   E.   For all sidewalk sales, auctions, fundraising promotions for the
nonprofit organization of three (3) days or less in duration in any zone, the
city manager, or designee, is authorized upon a proper showing, to approve said
application.
   F.   No nonprofit organization shall conduct, promote or sponsor more than
two (2) car washes per year within the city and no such car wash shall exceed
two (2) days in length. The restrictions of this subsection shall not apply to
car washes carried out on property owned by the sponsoring nonprofit
organization. (Ord. 96-006, 4-9-1996)
3-5-8: CARNIVALS, FIESTAS, CIRCUSES, BAZAARS, PARADES AND SIMILAR PUBLIC SHOWS:
   A.   Every person engaged in the business of exhibiting, conducting,
managing or operating a carnival, fiesta, circus, bazaar, parade or other
similar public show shall pay a special event permit application fee in an
amount set by resolution of the city council and shall comply with the
following:
      1.   Such events shall be sponsored and conducted only by nonprofit
organizations located in the city and primarily serving the Reedley community.
      2.   Each sponsoring organization shall be permitted a maximum of four
(4) such events during any calendar year.
      3.   Organizations sponsoring such events shall pay all direct costs of
municipal services including, but not limited to, policing, garbage disposal
and traffic enforcement within thirty (30) days following the completion of the
event.
      4.   No sponsoring organization shall advertise, conduct or operate such
an event without first having obtained a special event permit issued by the
city manager, or his designee, pursuant to subsection D of this section; and,
for any such event to be located in a city park, the sponsoring organization
must also apply for and first obtain permission from the recreation and park
commission.
      5.   Such events shall have maximum operating duration of three (3)
consecutive days.
      6.   A maximum of two (2) such events per calendar year may occur on any
privately owned parcel(s) of land in the city.
   B.   Every person engaged in the business of exhibiting, conducting,
managing or operating a privately owned business at a carnival, fiesta, circus,
bazaar, parade or similar public show, shall pay a license fee set by
resolution of the city council.
   C.   Special event permits may be obtained from the city upon written
application filed with the city. The application shall require at least the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the nonprofit organization engaged in the
business of sponsoring, managing, carrying on and directing such carnival,
fiesta, circus, bazaar, parade or similar public show;
      2.   Copy of city nonprofit business license;
      3.   The place where such carnival, fiesta, circus, bazaar, parade or
similar public show is to be exhibited and the proposed site layout, including
site dimensions, fencing and access points;
      4.   The type or manner of such carnival, fiesta, circus, bazaar, parade
or similar public show;
      5.   The time and date of arrival (setup) and departure (takedown);
      6.   The time, date and number of performances to be exhibited;
      7.   Hours of operation open to the public.
   D.   Upon receipt of application, the city manager, or his designee, shall
investigate the business of the applicant, the appropriateness of the location
and the type of carnival, fiesta, circus, bazaar, parade or similar public show
proposed to be produced. Thereupon the city manager, or his designee, may
approve the application and authorize the issuance of a special event permit
thereon, or the city manager, or his designee, may deny any application if in
his judgment, the granting of the requested permit would be contrary to the
public interests, or would result in unreasonable discomfort or serious
inconvenience to persons residing or businesses operating in the vicinity, or
if the proposed location is an inappropriate one, or if the event will conflict
with any city sponsored or cosponsored event. (Ord. 2001-04, 7-10-2001)
CHAPTER 6
AUCTIONS
SECTION:
3-6-1: License
3-6-2: Surety Bond
3-6-3: Sales By Public Auction
3-6-4: Applications For Holding Auction
3-6-5: Misrepresentations Prohibited
3-6-6: False Bids Prohibited
3-6-7: Invoices Required
3-6-8: Suspension And Revocation Of License And Permit
3-6-9: Exempt Auctions
3-6-10: Conditions Of License
3-6-1: LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license to sell at auction new goods, wares or
merchandise or any part thereof, shall immediately prior to the filing of the
application for an auction license, pay a license fee as set out in section
3-2-9 of this code. (Ord. 601, 8-15-1978)
3-6-2: SURETY BOND:
   A.   Bond Provided: Any person desiring a license under the provisions of
this chapter, before receiving the license, shall furnish a surety bond in the
principal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned:
      1.   Upon the observance by the applicant of all the provisions of this
chapter relating to auction sales;
      2.   Upon the truth of all representations made in connection with the
application for the license;
      3.   Upon the truth of all of the representations made in the course of
any auction sale;
      4.   As a guarantee that the purchase price of any article purchased at
such sale will be returned to any purchaser upon the proof that any false or
misleading statement or representation has been made concerning any personal
property sold or offered for sale at any auction sale in the auction place of
business.
   B.   Conditions Of Bond: The bond by its terms shall be made to inure to the
benefit of any person injured or aggrieved as a result of the sale or any
purchase made thereat, and shall provide that the aggrieved person shall have
the right of independent action thereon for a period of sixty (60) days from
and after the day upon which the purchase, act or representation was made which
constitutes the basis of such action. (Ord. 601, 8-15-1978)
3-6-3: SALES BY PUBLIC AUCTION:
No person shall advertise for sale, sell, dispose of or offer for sale, at
public auction, or cause or permit to be advertised, offered for sale, sold or
disposed of at public auction, any new goods, wares or merchandise, whether the
same shall be their own property or the property of someone else, without first
complying with the provisions of this section and obtaining the licenses and
bond provided for in sections
3-6-1 and
3-6-2 of this chapter. Without limiting the generality of the term "sale by
public auction", such sale shall include a sale in which, instead of the
bidders making increasingly higher bids for an article or articles of
merchandise, the seller or auctioneer announces a price at which he will sell
one or more articles of merchandise and then, if no sale occurs, increasingly
adds additional articles of merchandise to those originally offered, with or
without varying the previously announced price, until a buyer is finally
induced to buy the accumulated articles at the price fixed. (Ord. 601, 8-15-
1978)
3-6-4: APPLICATIONS FOR HOLDING AUCTION:
Any person desiring to conduct or hold an auction sale shall make application
to the finance department stating the time during each day, and the number of
days, weeks or months he desires to hold or conduct such auction. Such
applicant shall give his full name and the name of all persons interested in
the conduct or holding of said auction, the name of the auctioneer, the
residence of the applicant, place where said auction shall be held, the length
of time for which said permit is desired, whether the applicant has been
previously engaged in a like or similar business; if so, designating the places
where he has previously conducted such auction sales, with such other
information as the finance department shall deem reasonable and necessary to
establish the truth of each and all of such statements. There shall be attached
to said application a complete inventory of all new goods to be sold at said
auction, and said inventory shall show whether or not said goods are owned by
the applicant or are being sold by him on consignment, designating particularly
the consigned goods. Such inventory shall give the grade, quality and kind,
together with cost price of each article. Attached to said application shall be
an affidavit stating that all of the statements therein contained and in said
inventory contained, are true and correct. If the applicant be a corporation,
said affidavit may be made by the president, general manager, secretary or
treasurer. On said application being filed, if the statements therein contained
be found to be true and upon payment of the required license fees, the finance
department shall issue to said applicant a permit for the length of time
designated, not to exceed the period of three (3) months. (Ord. 601, 8-15-1978)
3-6-5: MISREPRESENTATIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person acting as auctioneer shall make any statements which are
false in any particular or which have tendency to mislead any person present,
or to make any misrepresentation whatsoever or at all, as to the quality,
quantity, character, present condition, value, cost, general selling price, or
as to whether property is new or secondhand, or partly so, of any property
offered for disposal by auction sale.
   B.   No person shall sell or attempt to sell by auction, or advertise for
sale by auction, any goods, wares or merchandise, falsely representing or
pretending that such goods, wares and merchandise are in whole or in part a
bankrupt or insolvent stock, or damaged goods, or goods saved from a fire, or
make any false statement as to the previous history, ownership, quality or
character of such goods, wares and merchandise.
   C.   No person shall offer for sale at auction any article and induce its
purchase by any bidder, and afterwards substitute any article in lieu of that
offered to and purchased by the bidder, except with the bidder's knowledge and
consent. (Ord. 601, 8-15-1978)
3-6-6: FALSE BIDS PROHIBITED:
No person shall act, or cause or induce anyone else to act, as by bidder or
what is commonly known as a "capper" or "booster" or "shiller" at any such
auction or place where any such auction shall take place, or to offer to make
any false bid or to offer any false bid to buy or pretend to buy, any such
article sold or offered for sale at any such auction. (Ord. 601, 8-15-1978)
3-6-7: INVOICES REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the person whose merchandise is thus being sold at
public auction to give each and every purchaser of an article, the selling
price of which amounts to or exceeds the sum of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50)
an invoice containing a full description of the article, the selling price
thereof together with a statement giving each and every warranty under which
the article was sold. Duplicate copies of each invoice shall be kept. (Ord.
601, 8-15-1978)
3-6-8: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE AND PERMIT:
Each and every day that a violation of this chapter continues or occurs shall
be deemed a separate offense, and in the addition to the penalty herein
provided, the police chief, upon proof of conviction of the applicant, must
revoke the license and permit under which said auction is being held, and it
shall thereafter be unlawful for any such person whose license and permit is so
revoked to hold or conduct any such auction sale unless he shall make
application and procure a new license and permit for such purpose. The police
chief shall have authority to suspend any license and permit for violation of
this chapter, the suspension to last only during the pendency of the trial of
the action for the violation alleged. (Ord. 601, 8-15-1978)
For every violation of this chapter, or of his duty as auctioneer, in addition
to any other penalty provided by this code, such auctioneer shall forfeit to
the penalty as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code, which shall be recoverable upon said bond. (Ord. 601, 8-15-
1978; amd. 2007 Code)
3-6-9: EXEMPT AUCTIONS:
   A.   Public Entities: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
auction held or conducted by any public officer under the provisions of any law
of the United States or state of California or any provisions of this code.
   B.   Charitable Auctions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
any auction held for charitable or benevolent purposes, or for any church fair,
festival or bazaar. (Ord. 601, 8-15-1978)
3-6-10: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Manner Of Solicitation: It shall be unlawful for any auctioneer, or any
corporation conducting an auction sale, to solicit by music, singing, or loud
or unusual noises to be made or done for the purpose of attracting the public
to the auction sale.
   B.   Hours Limited: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any
auction sale between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day and eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the following day.
   C.   Additions To Stock Prohibited: No additions of any item shall be made
to the stock set forth in the inventory before or during any auction sale
licensed hereunder.
   D.   Existing Provisions: All existing provisions in said code relating to
auctions shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 601, 8-15-1978)
CHAPTER 7
UNIFORM TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
3-7-1: Title
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Tax Imposed
3-7-4: Exemptions
3-7-5: Operator's Duties
3-7-6: Registration
3-7-7: Reports And Remittances
3-7-8: Penalties And Interest
3-7-9: Failure To Collect And Report Tax
3-7-10: Cessation Of Business
3-7-11: Appeals
3-7-12: Records
3-7-13: Refunds
3-7-14: Suspension And Revocation Of Permits
3-7-15: Recording Certificates; Liens
3-7-16: Priority Of Liens
3-7-17: Warrants For Collection Of Liens
3-7-18: Seizures And Sales
3-7-19: Successors' Liability; Withholdings By Purchasers
3-7-20: Liability Of Purchasers; Release
3-7-21: Notice To Withhold
3-7-22: Extensions Of Time
3-7-23: Divulging Of Information Prohibited
3-7-24: Violations; Penalties
3-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the UNIFORM TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX ORDINANCE of
the city. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise apparent from the context,
certain words and phrases used in this chapter are defined as follows:
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Reedley.
HOTEL: "Hotel" and "motel" as those terms are defined in section
10-2-3 of this code; recreational vehicle campground; inn; tourist home or
house; and any other similar structure or structures or portion or portions
thereof; provided, however, that for the purposes of this chapter "hotel" as
above defined shall apply only to buildings or structures with forty (40) or
more dwelling units, to a group or groups of buildings or structures under
common ownership or control with forty (40) or more dwelling units, and to
recreational vehicle campgrounds with accommodations for sixty (60) or more
recreational vehicles, as defined in section
10-2-3 of this chapter.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any
room, or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping
purposes.
OPERATOR: The person who is the proprietor of the hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any
other capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a managing
agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall
also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the
same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of
this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent, however, shall be
considered to be compliance by both.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
RENT: The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of
space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor
or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, property and services of
any kind or nature without any deductions therefrom whatsoever.
TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city manager or his designee.
TRANSIENT: Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license, timeshare arrangement
or ownership or agreement (but not timeshare estate ownership), or other
agreement of whatever nature, for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar
days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person
occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient if his actual
total period of occupancy does not exceed thirty (30) days. Unless days of
occupancy or entitlement to occupancy by one person are consecutive without any
break, then prior or subsequent periods of such occupancy or entitlement to
occupancy shall not be counted when determining whether a period exceeds that
stated thirty (30) calendar days. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-3: TAX IMPOSED:
For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient shall be subject to
and shall pay a tax in the amount of eight percent (8%) of the rent charged by
the operator. Such tax shall constitute a debt owed by the transient to the
city, which debt shall be extinguished only by payment to the operator or to
the city. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the
time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate
share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be
due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any
reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax
administrator may require that such tax be paid directly to the tax
administrator. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-4: EXEMPTIONS:
No tax shall be imposed upon:
   A.   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the
power of the city to impose the tax provided for in this chapter;
   B.   Any federal or state officer or employee when on official business; or
   C.   Any officer or employee of a foreign government, which officer or
employee is exempt by reason of express provisions of federal law or
international treaty. No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim
therefor made at the time the rent is collected and under penalty of perjury
upon a form prescribed by the tax administrator. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-5: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter
to the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every
transient. The amount of the tax shall be separately stated from the amount of
the rent charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from
the operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner,
whether directly or indirectly, that the tax, or any part thereof, will be
assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent,
or that, if added, any part will be refunded, except in the manner provided in
this chapter. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-6: REGISTRATION:
Prior to commencing business, each operator of any hotel renting an occupancy
to transients shall register such hotel with the tax administrator and obtain
from him a transient occupancy registration certificate which shall at all
times be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Such certificate, among
other things, shall set forth the following information:
   A.   The name of the registered operator;
   B.   The name and address of the hotel;
   C.   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
   D.   A statement as follows:
This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the uniform
transient occupancy tax law by registering with the tax administrator for the
purpose of collecting from transients the transient occupancy tax and remitting
such tax to the tax administrator. This certificate shall not authorize any
person to conduct any lawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an
unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with state
and local laws, including, but not limited to, those requiring a permit from
any board, commission, department or office of this city. This certificate does
not constitute a permit and is not transferable to a different operator.
(Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-7: REPORTS AND REMITTANCES:
The tax imposed by section
3-7-3 of this chapter shall:
   A.   Be due to the tax administrator at the time it is collected by the
operator; and
   B.   Become delinquent and subject to penalties if not received by the tax
administrator on or before the last working day of the month following the
close of each calendar quarter.
Each operator, on or before the last working day of the month following the
close of each calendar quarter, shall file a return with the tax administrator
on the forms provided by him of the total rents charged or chargeable as
provided in section
3-7-3 of this chapter, whether or not received, including any rentals charged
for occupancies exempt under the provisions of section
3-7-4 of this chapter, and the amount of tax collected for transient
occupancies. Each such return shall contain a declaration under penalty of
perjury, executed by the operator or his authorized agent, that to the best of
the signer's knowledge, the statements in the return are true, correct and
complete. Amounts claimed on the return as exempt from the tax pursuant to
sections
3-7-4 and
3-7-13 of this chapter shall be fully itemized and explained on the return or
supporting schedule. In determining the amount of taxable receipts on the tax
return, "rent", as defined in section
3-7-2 of this chapter, may not be reduced by any business expense including,
but not limited to, the amount of service charges deducted by credit card
companies or commissions paid to travel agencies. At the time the return is
filed, the tax fixed at the prevailing transient occupancy tax rate for the
amount of rentals charged or chargeable, which are not exempt from tax pursuant
to sections
3-7-4 and
3-7-13 of this chapter, shall be remitted to the tax administrator. The tax
administrator may establish other reporting periods and may require a cash
deposit or bond or a separate trust fund bank account for any permit holder if
the tax administrator deems it necessary in order to ensure the collection of
the tax, and he may require further information on the return. All taxes
collected by operators pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust for the
account of the city until remittance thereof is made to the tax administrator
as provided in this section. (Ord. 94-015, 6-28-1994)
3-7-8: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
   A.   Original Delinquencies: Any operator who shall fail to remit any tax
imposed by the provisions of this chapter within the time required shall pay a
penalty in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the tax, in addition to the
amount of the tax.
   B.   Continued Delinquencies: Any operator who shall fail to remit any
delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent, shall pay a second
delinquency penalty in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the tax, in addition
to the amount of the tax and the ten percent (10%) penalty first imposed.
   C.   Fraud: If the tax administrator shall determine that the nonpayment of
any remittance due pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is due to fraud,
a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of the tax
shall be added thereto, in addition to the penalties set forth in subsections A
and B of this section.
   D.   Interest: In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who shall
fail to remit any tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter shall pay
interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month, or fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent until paid.
   E.   Penalties And Interest Merged With Tax: Every penalty imposed and such
interest as accrues, pursuant to the provisions of this section, shall become a
part of the tax required to be paid by the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-9: FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX:
If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect such tax and to make, within
the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of such tax, or
any portion thereof, required by the provisions of this chapter, the tax
administrator shall proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain the
facts and information on which to base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as
the tax administrator shall procure such facts and information as he is able to
obtain upon which to base the assessment of any such tax imposed by the
provisions of this chapter and payable by any operator who has failed or
refused to collect the tax and to make such report and remittance, the tax
administrator shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the
tax, interest and penalties provided for by the provisions of this chapter. In
the event such determination is made, the tax administrator shall give written
notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it
in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so
assessed at his last known place of address. Such operator, within ten (10)
days after the service or mailing of such notice, may make an application in
writing to the tax administrator for a hearing on the amount assessed. If an
application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the time
prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the tax
administrator shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and
payable. If such an application is made, the tax administrator shall give not
less than five (5) days' written notice in the manner prescribed in this
section to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in such notice
why the amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and
penalties. At such hearing the operator may appear and offer evidence why such
specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such
hearing the tax administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and
shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in
this section of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest and
penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen (15)
days, unless an appeal is filed as provided in section
3-7-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-10: CESSATION OF BUSINESS:
Each operator shall notify the tax administrator ten (10) days prior to the
sale or cessation of business for any reason, and returns and remittances shall
be due immediately upon the sale or cessation of business. (Ord. 736, 7-10-
1990)
3-7-11: APPEALS:
Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the tax administrator with respect to
the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the city
council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen (15)
days after the service or mailing of the determination of the tax due. The city
council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the city clerk
shall give notice in writing to such operator at his last known place of
address. The findings of the city council shall be final and conclusive and
shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed in this chapter for
the service of a notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be
immediately due and payable upon the service of notice. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-12: RECORDS:
It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to
the city of any tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter to keep and
preserve, for a period of three (3) years after the date any such tax is due
and payable, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such
tax as he may have been liable for the collection and payment to the city,
which records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at all
reasonable times during regular business hours. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-13: REFUNDS:
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid,
or paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, such amount may be
refunded as provided in subsections B and C of this section, provided a claim
in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon
which the claim is founded, is filed with the tax administrator within three
(3) years after the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by
the tax administrator.
   B.   Any operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the tax administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, neither a refund nor a credit
shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been
refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient to the operator.
   C.   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid, paid more than once
or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a claim
in the manner provided in subsection A of this section, but only when the tax
was paid by the transient directly to the tax administrator, or when the
transient, having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction
of the tax administrator that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund
from the operator who collected the tax.
   D.   No refund shall be paid pursuant to the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-14: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
Whenever any operator fails to comply with any provision of this chapter
relating to the transient occupancy tax or any rule or regulation of the tax
administrator relating to such tax prescribed and adopted by this chapter, the
tax administrator, upon a hearing, after giving the operator ten (10) days'
written notice specifying the time and place of the hearing and requiring him
to show cause why his permit or permits should not be revoked, may suspend or
revoke any one or more of the permits held by the operator. The tax
administrator shall give to the operator written notice of the suspension or
revocation of any of his permits. The notices required by this section may be
served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for the service of a
notice of a deficiency determination. The tax administrator shall not issue a
new permit after the revocation of a permit unless he is satisfied that the
former holder of the permit will comply with the provisions of this chapter
relating to the transient occupancy tax and the regulations of the tax
administrator.
During any period of time during which a permit has not been issued or is
suspended, revoked or otherwise not validly in effect, the tax administrator
may require that the hotel be closed. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-15: RECORDING CERTIFICATES; LIENS:
If any amount required to be remitted or paid to the city pursuant to this
chapter is not remitted or paid when due, the tax administrator, within three
(3) years after the amount is due, may file for record in the office of the
county recorder a certificate specifying the amount of tax, penalties and
interest due, the name and address, as they appear on the records of the tax
administrator, of the operator liable for the same, and the fact that the tax
administrator has complied with all the provisions of this chapter in the
determination of the amount required to be remitted and paid. From the time of
the filing for record, the amount required to be remitted, together with
penalties and interest, shall constitute a lien upon all real property in the
county owned by the operator or afterwards and before the lien expires acquired
by him. The lien shall have the force, effect and priority of a judgment lien
and shall continue for ten (10) years after the time of the filing of the
certificate unless sooner released or otherwise discharged. (Ord. 736, 7-10-
1990)
3-7-16: PRIORITY OF LIENS:
The amounts required to be remitted and/or paid by any operator pursuant to
this chapter, with penalties and interest, shall be satisfied first in any of
the following cases:
   A.   Whenever the person is insolvent;
   B.   Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his assets;
   C.   Whenever the estate of the person in the hands of executors,
administrators or heirs is insufficient to pay all of the debts due from the
deceased; and
   D.   Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed or absent
person required to pay any amount pursuant to this chapter is levied upon by
process law. This chapter shall not give the city a preference over any
recorded lien which attached prior to the date when the amounts required to be
paid became a lien.
The preference given to the city by this section shall be subordinate to the
preferences given to claims for personal services by Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1204 through 1208. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-17: WARRANTS FOR COLLECTION OF LIENS:
At any time within three (3) years after any operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of any amount required by this chapter to be remitted or
paid, or within three (3) years after the last recording of a certificate
pursuant to section
3-7-15 of this chapter, the tax administrator may issue a warrant for the
enforcement of any lien and for the collection of any amount required to be
paid to the city pursuant to this chapter. The warrant shall be directed to any
sheriff or marshal and shall have the same effect as a writ of execution. The
warrant shall be levied and the sale made pursuant to it in the same manner
with the same effect as a writ of execution. The tax administrator may pay or
advance to the sheriff or marshal the same fees, commissions and expenses for
his services as are provided by law for similar services pursuant to a writ of
execution. The tax administrator, and not the court, shall approve the fees for
publication in a newspaper. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-18: SEIZURES AND SALES:
At any time within three (3) years after any operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of any amount due pursuant to this chapter, the tax
administrator may forthwith collect the amount in the following manner: the tax
administrator shall seize any property, real or personal, of the operator and
sell the property, or a sufficient part of it, at a public auction to pay the
amount due together with any penalties and interest imposed for the delinquency
and any costs incurred on account of seizure and sale. Any seizure made to
collect transient occupancy taxes due shall be only of property of the operator
not exempt from execution under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-19: SUCCESSORS' LIABILITY; WITHHOLDINGS BY PURCHASERS:
If any operator liable for any amount pursuant to this chapter sells out his
business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold
sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner
produces a receipt from the tax administrator showing that the amount has been
paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-20: LIABILITY OF PURCHASERS; RELEASE:
If the purchaser of a hotel fails to withhold the purchase price as required,
he shall become personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be
withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. Within
sixty (60) days after receiving a written request from the purchaser for a
certificate, or within sixty (60) days after the date the former owner's
records are made available for audit, whichever period expires last, but in any
event not later than ninety (90) days after receiving the request, the tax
administrator shall either issue the certificate or mail a notice to the
purchaser at his address as it appears on the records of the tax administrator
of the amount which shall be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate.
Failure of the tax administrator to mail the notice will release the purchaser
from any further obligation to withhold the purchase price as provided in this
section. The time within which the obligation of the successor may be enforced
shall start to run at the time the operator sells his business or at the time
the determination against the operator becomes final, whichever occurs last.
(Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-21: NOTICE TO WITHHOLD:
If any person or operator is delinquent in the remittance or payment of the
amount required to be remitted or paid by him pursuant to this chapter, or in
the event a determination has been made against him for the remittance of the
tax and the payment of the penalty, the city, within three (3) years after the
tax obligation became due, may give notice thereof by personal delivery to the
hotel or by registered mail to all persons, including the state or any
political subdivision thereof, having in their possession or under their
control any credits or other personal property belonging to the taxpayer. After
receiving the withholding notice, the person so notified shall make no
disposition of the taxpayer's credits, other personal property or debts until
the city consents to a transfer or disposition or until sixty (60) days elapse
after the receipt of the notice, whichever expires earlier. All persons, upon
the receipt of such notice, shall immediately advise the city of all such
credits, other personal property or debts in their possession, under their
control or owing by them. If the notice seeks to prevent the transfer or other
disposition of a deposit in a bank or other credits or personal property in the
possession or under the control of the bank, to be effective the notice shall
be delivered or mailed to the branch or office of the bank at which the deposit
is carried or at which the credits or personal property is held. If any person
so notified makes a transfer or disposition of the property or debts required
to be held pursuant to this section during the effective period of the notice
to withhold, he shall be liable to the city to the extent of the value of the
release up to the amount of the indebtedness owed by the taxpayer to the city.
(Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-22: EXTENSIONS OF TIME:
The tax administrator, for good cause, may extend for not to exceed one month
the time for making any return or paying any amount required to be paid
pursuant to this chapter. The extension may be granted at any time, provided a
request therefor is filed with the tax administrator within or prior to the
period for which the extension may be granted. Any person to whom an extension
is granted shall pay, in addition to the tax, interest at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month, or fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax
would have been due without the extension until the date of payment. (Ord. 736,
7-10-1990)
3-7-23: DIVULGING OF INFORMATION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person having an administrative duty pursuant to
this chapter to make known in any manner whatever the business affairs,
operations or information obtained by an investigation of the records of any
operator or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of his
official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses or
expenditures, or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return
or to knowingly permit any return, or copy thereof, or any abstract, or
particular thereof, to be seen or examined by any person. Successors,
receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if
directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the
amount of any unpaid tax or amounts of tax, penalties and interest required to
be collected. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990)
3-7-24: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Except for the failure of an operator to pay to the tax administrator
taxes collected pursuant to this chapter, which failure to pay shall be
punishable as a felony pursuant to Penal Code section 424, every violation of
this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   If the offense is not otherwise punishable as set forth in subsection A
of this section, any person wilfully failing to comply with, or knowingly
violating, any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   C.   Any operator or other person who wilfully fails or refuses to register
as required by this chapter, or to furnish any return required to be made, or
who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by
the tax administrator, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign or
verify any report or claim who wilfully makes any false or fraudulent report or
claim with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due
required by this chapter to be made shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Such
misdemeanor shall be punishable as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 736, 7-10-1990; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Operator Permit Required
3-8-3: Application For Operator Permit
3-8-4: Operator Permit Issuance And Denial
3-8-5: Massage Technician Permit
3-8-6: Application For Massage Technician Permit
3-8-7: Massage Technician Permit Issuance And Denial
3-8-8: Off Premises Massage Permit
3-8-9: Requirements Of Operation
3-8-10: Change Of Business
3-8-11: Fees
3-8-12: Exemption; Existing Permittees
3-8-13: Transfer And Duration Of Permits
3-8-14: Suspension, Revocation, Denial And Appeal
3-8-15: Violation And Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
CERTIFIED MASSAGE THERAPIST: A person who is certified by the massage therapist
organization (also known as the California Massage Therapy Council) pursuant to
chapter 10.5 (commencing with section 4600) of division 2 of the California
Business and Professions Code.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of police of the city of Reedley or his designated
representative.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Reedley.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Reedley, or his designated
representative.
CONVICTION, CONVICTED: A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following a
plea of nolo contendere.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The health services agency of the county of Fresno, the
services of which are performed pursuant to contract with the city of Reedley.
HOLISTIC HEALTH MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: A massage establishment in which all
persons engaging in activities which require them to obtain a permit under this
chapter have obtained valid permits as holistic health practitioners.
HOLISTIC HEALTH PRACTITIONER: A nonmedical healthcare therapist who uses a
massage specialty and therapeutic approach and caring for clients, who: a) is a
member in good standing in a state or nationally chartered organization devoted
to a massage specialty approach; and b) has received a diploma or certificate
of graduation from an approved school wherein the method, profession and work
of massage technician is taught, which school must have provided a minimum of
one hundred (100) hours of instruction while the applicant was a student in
residence over a period of no fewer than three (3) months.
MANAGER: The person(s) designated by the operator of a massage establishment to
act as representative and agent of the operator in managing day to day
operations of the establishment and charged with the same liabilities and
responsibilities as the operator.
MASSAGE: Any method of treating the external parts of the body for remedial,
hygienic or any other reason or purpose, whether by means of pressure, rubbing
or other manner of touching external parts of the body with the hands, or with
the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus with or without supplementary
aids such as oils, powders, creams or other similar preparations.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any business conducted within the city of Reedley where
any person, for money or any other consideration, administers to another person
a massage.
MASSAGE TECHNICIAN: Any person who administers to another person a massage
within a massage establishment or who is in training or apprenticeship to
administer massages.
OPERATOR: All persons who have an ownership interest in a massage
establishment.
OPERATOR PERMIT: The permit required pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
to operate a massage establishment.
PERSON: Any individual, or corporation, partnership, association or other group
or combination of individuals acting as an entity.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The police department of the city of Reedley. (Ord. 96-001,
1-9-1996; amd. Ord. 97-03, 4-8-1997; Ord. 2009-03, 8-11-2009)
3-8-2: OPERATOR PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate a massage establishment within the city without
first obtaining an operator permit pursuant to sections
3-8-3 and
3-8-4 of this chapter, securing the necessary business license as required by
this code, and complying with all other provisions of this title, and titles 9
and 10 of this code 1 .
   B.   The operator permit requirements, massage technician requirements, and
related requirements in sections
3-8-3 through
3-8-8, inclusive, of this chapter shall not apply to a certified massage
therapist engaged in the performance of their duties, so long as such person is
operating under a valid certificate issued by the massage therapist
organization (also known as the California Massage Therapy Council), pursuant
to chapter 10.5 (commencing with section 4600) of division 2 of the California
Business and Professions Code relating to massage therapy, provided, however,
that such persons shall not be exempted from this chapter if chapter 10.5 is
repealed. (Ord. 2009-03, 8-11-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. Building and zoning regulations, respectively.
3-8-3: APPLICATION FOR OPERATOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application Required: Any person desiring an operator permit to operate
a massage establishment shall file a written application on the required form
with the chief of police, who shall conduct an investigation. The application
shall be accompanied by the appropriate filing fee established by resolution of
the city council. The application shall be completed and signed by the operator
of the proposed massage establishment (if proposed to be operated by a sole
proprietor), by one general partner (if proposed to be operated by a
partnership), by one officer or one director (if proposed to be operated by a
corporation), or by one participant (if proposed to be operated as a joint
venture). (Ord. 97-03, 4-8-1997)
   B.   Contents Of Application: The application shall contain or be
accompanied by the following information:
      1.   A description of the type of ownership of the proposed massage
establishment, i.e., whether by individual, partnership, corporation or
otherwise. If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall
be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter
together with the state and date of incorporation and the names and residence
addresses of each of its current officers and directors, and of each
stockholder holding more than five percent (5%) of the stock of that
corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall set forth
the name and residence address of each of the partners.
      2.   The precise name under which the massage establishment is to be
conducted.
      3.   The complete address and all telephone numbers of the proposed
massage establishment.
      4.   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all proposed
massage technicians and employees in the massage establishment and the name and
residence addresses of the manager or managing employee proposed to be
principally in charge of the operation of the massage establishment.
      5.   A description of each other business operated on the same premises
and of each other business operated either within the city or elsewhere within
the state which is owned or operated by the applicant or in the case of an
application by a partnership, corporation or joint venture, owned or operated
by the other partner or partners, officers and directors or joint venturers.
      6.   The following personal information concerning the applicant:
         a.   Name, date of birth and complete residence address.
         b.   Two (2) previous residence addresses immediately prior to the
present residence address of the applicant.
         c.   Acceptable proof that the applicant is at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
         d.   Height, weight, color of hair, color of eyes and gender of the
applicant.
         e.   Two (2) front faced portrait photographs at least two inches by
two inches (2" x 2") in size.
         f.   The applicant's business, occupation and employment history for
five (5) years preceding the date of application including, but not limited to,
the massage or similar business history and experience of the applicant.
         g.   The permit history of the applicant, including a statement
whether such person has ever had any permit or license issued by any agency,
board, city, county, territory or state; the date of issuance of each such
permit or license; an indication for each as to whether the permit or license
was denied, revoked or suspended; and a statement if any vocational or
professional license or permit was denied, revoked or suspended and the reason
therefor.
         h.   With the exception of minor traffic violations, a disclosure of
all criminal convictions of the applicant and (in the case of a proposed
massage establishment to be operated by a partnership) of the applicant's
partner or partners, or (in the case of a proposed massage establishment to be
operated by a corporation) of the officers and directors of the applicant's
proposed corporate massage establishment, or (in the case of a massage
establishment to be operated by a joint venture) of the joint venturer or joint
venturers of the applicant, together with the date and place of each such
conviction and the reason therefor.
         i.   A complete set of fingerprints of the applicant taken by the
police department. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
      7.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real property
upon or in which the business is to be conducted. In the event the applicant is
not the legal owner of the property, the application must be accompanied by a
copy of the lease and an acknowledgment from the owner of the property that a
massage establishment will be located on his or its property. (Ord. 97-03, 4-8-
1997)
      8.   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
verification of the information contained in the application.
      9.   Such other information and identification as deemed necessary by the
chief of police.
      10.   A statement in writing and dated by the applicant that he certifies
under penalty of perjury that all information contained in the application is
true and correct. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996; amd. Ord. 97-03, 4-8-1997)
3-8-4: OPERATOR PERMIT ISSUANCE AND DENIAL:
   A.   Criteria For Issuance Or Denial: Upon receipt of a written application
for a permit, the chief of police shall conduct an investigation to ascertain
whether such permit should be issued as requested. The chief of police shall,
within forty five (45) days after the filing of an application, approve,
conditionally approve or deny the application. The forty five (45) day period
may be extended for up to thirty (30) additional days, if necessary, to
complete the investigation. The chief of police shall issue such permit as
requested, unless he makes any one or more of the following findings:
      1.   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the officers or directors
of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation; or a partner, if the
applicant is a partnership, or any person directly engaged or employed in the
massage establishment: (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
         a.   Has been convicted of a violation of any one or more of the
following sections of the Penal Code or comparable provisions of any other
state: Penal Code sections 266h, 266i, 314, 315, 316, or 318; subsection (a),
(b) or (g) of section 647, or any other provision of law pursuant to which a
person is required to register under the provisions of Penal Code section 290.
(Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996; amd. 2007 Code)
         b.   Has been convicted of a violation of Health and Safety Code
section 11550 or any offense involving the illegal sale, distribution or
possession of a controlled substance specified in Health and Safety Code
sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058.
         c.   Has been convicted of any offense in any other state which is the
equivalent of any of the above mentioned offenses.
         d.   Has been subjected to a permanent injunction against the
conducting or maintaining of a nuisance pursuant to Penal Code sections 11225
through 11235, or any similar provisions of law in a jurisdiction outside the
state.
         e.   Has engaged in conduct which would constitute an offense as
described in subsection A1a of this section, within five (5) years immediately
prior to the filing of any application.
         f.   Has committed an act in another jurisdiction, which, if committed
in this state would have been a violation of law or which, if done by a
permittee under this chapter, would be grounds for denial, suspension or
revocation of the permit.
         g.   Has been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit
or moral turpitude or an act of violence, which act or acts are related to the
qualifications, functions or duties of the operator.
      2.   The applicant has made a false, misleading or fraudulent statement
of fact to the city in the permit application process.
      3.   The application does not contain all of the information required by
section
3-8-3 of this chapter.
      4.   The massage establishment as proposed by the applicant does not or
cannot comply with all applicable laws including, but not limited to, health,
zoning, fire and safety requirements and standards.
      5.   The applicant has not satisfied or cannot satisfy the requirements
of this chapter.
      6.   If the application is denied for failure to comply with subsection
A2 or A3 of this section, the applicant may not reapply for a period of six (6)
months from the date the application was denied.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit: All operators shall comply with the following
conditions and any other conditions specified by the city manager on issuance
of the operator permit:
      1.   Except to the extent required, in writing, by a state licensed
medical practitioner, no massage technician, massage technician aide or
employee shall massage the genital or anal area of any patron or the breast or
breasts of any female patron, nor shall any operator of a massage establishment
allow or permit such massage. No massage technician, massage technician aide or
employee, while performing any task or service associated with the massage
business, shall be present in any room with another person unless the person's
genitals and anus, and in the case of a female, also her breasts, are fully and
opaquely covered.
      2.   No person granted a permit pursuant to this chapter shall use any
name or conduct business under any designation not specified in his permit.
      3.   All massage establishments required to be licensed under this
chapter shall have a manager on the premises at all times the massage
establishment is open. The operator of each massage establishment shall file a
statement with the chief of police designating the person or persons with power
to act as a manager. The operator, or the manager in the operator's absence,
shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with this chapter.
      4.   The operator and designated manager(s) shall ensure that the massage
technician permit for each on duty massage technician is displayed in a
conspicuously public place and that each massage technician is wearing the
identification required by subsection
3-8-7B3 of this chapter.
      5.   No operator shall employ any person as a massage technician or
massage technician aide, who does not have a valid massage technician permit
issued pursuant to this chapter. Every operator shall report to the chief of
police any change of employees, whether by new or renewed employment, discharge
or termination. The report shall contain the name of the employee and the date
of hire or termination. The report shall be made within five (5) days of the
hire or termination. The operator shall deliver the permit and photo
identification card of any massage technician no longer employed by the
operator to the chief of police.
      6.   All persons operating, managing or employed in the massage
establishment shall be fully clothed at all times. Such clothing shall be of a
fully opaque, nontransparent material and shall provide complete, opaque
covering from midthigh to three inches (3") below the collarbone.
      7.   Each operator shall provide the chief of police with evidence of the
insurance required within forty five (45) days of the date of issuance of the
permit.
      8.   The operator shall comply with all provisions of this chapter and
any and all applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
3-8-5: MASSAGE TECHNICIAN PERMIT:
No person shall perform or administer a massage, or advertise to provide
massage services in the city, unless such person has in effect a valid massage
technician permit issued pursuant to sections
3-8-6 and
3-8-7 of this chapter. A massage technician, and any person in training or
apprenticeship, shall comply with the requirements of sections
3-8-6 and
3-8-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
3-8-6: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE TECHNICIAN PERMIT:
   A.   Required Signatures, Information And Fee: Any person desiring a massage
technician permit shall file a written application on the required form with
the chief of police, who shall conduct an investigation. The application shall
be completed and signed both by the applicant and by the owner and operator of
the massage establishment for which the applicant proposes to be employed. The
application shall be accompanied by the appropriate filing fee established by
resolution of the city council. The application shall contain the following
information:
      1.   A statement of the exact location at which the applicant will be
working as a massage technician, including the full street address and all
telephone numbers associated with said location, and the name and address of
the massage establishment. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
      2.   The following personal information concerning the applicant:
         a.   Name, date of birth, complete residence address and telephone
number;
         b.   Two (2) previous residence addresses immediately prior to the
present address;
         c.   Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen
(18) years of age;
         d.   Height, weight, color of hair, color of eyes and gender;
         e.   Two (2) front faced portrait photographs at least two inches by
two inches (2" x 2") in size;
         f.   The business, occupation and employment history of the applicant
for the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the application;
         g.   The permit history of the applicant and whether such person has
ever had any license or permit, issued by any agency, board, city or other
jurisdiction, denied, revoked or suspended and the reasons therefor.
      3.   All criminal convictions, excluding minor traffic violations,
including date and place of each such conviction and reason therefor.
      4.   A complete set of fingerprints taken by the police department.
      5.   Such other information and identification as deemed necessary by the
chief of police.
      6.   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
verification of the information contained in the application.
      7.   A statement in writing, signed and dated by the applicant, stating
that he certifies under penalty of perjury that all information contained in
the application is true and correct. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996; amd. Ord. 97-03,
4-8-1997)
   B.   Diploma Or Certificate Issued:
      1.   Each applicant must furnish a diploma or certificate of graduation
from an approved school wherein the method, profession and work of massage
technician is taught, which school must have provided a minimum of one hundred
(100) hours of instruction while the applicant was a student in residence over
a period of no fewer than three (3) months. (Ord. 97-03, 4-8-1997)
      2.   The chief of police may consider an applicant's study of massage
completed outside the state if proof of completion from a formalized course of
study in massage practice, anatomy and physiology is provided with the
application. Proof of completion shall include dates of study and the name,
address and phone number of the school attended.
      3.   Any outside course of study submitted for approval shall meet the
minimum requirements of the state of California office of post secondary
education. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996; amd. Ord. 97-03, 4-8-1997)
3-8-7: MASSAGE TECHNICIAN PERMIT ISSUANCE AND DENIAL:
   A.   Upon receipt of a written application for a massage technician permit,
the chief of police shall conduct an investigation in such manner as he deems
appropriate in order to ascertain whether such permit should be issued as
requested. The chief of police shall approve, conditionally approve or deny the
application within forty five (45) days of the filing of an application. Said
forty five (45) day period may be continued for an additional thirty (30) days
if necessitated by the occurrence of events beyond the control of the chief of
police. The chief of police shall issue such permit as requested, unless he
makes any of the following findings:
      1.   The applicant has been convicted of any of the following: (Ord. 96-
001, 1-9-1996)
         a.   A violation of any one or more of the following sections of the
Penal Code or comparable provisions of any other state: Penal Code sections
266h, 266i, 314, 315, 316, or 318; subsection (a), (b) or (g) of section 647,
or any other provision of law pursuant to which a person is required to
register under the provisions of Penal Code section 290; (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-
1996; amd. 2007 Code)
         b.   A violation of Health and Safety Code section 11550 or any
offense involving the illegal sale, distribution or possession of a controlled
substance specified in Health and Safety Code sections 11054, 11055, 11056,
11057 or 11058; or
         c.   Any offense in any other state which is the equivalent of any of
the above mentioned offenses.
      2.   The applicant has engaged in conduct which would constitute an
offense as described in subsection A1a of this section, within five (5) years
immediately prior to the filing of any application.
      3.   The applicant has committed an act, which, if committed in this
state would have been a violation of law or which, if done by a permittee under
this chapter, would be grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of the
permit.
      4.   The applicant has been convicted of an act involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit or moral turpitude or an act of violence, which act or acts are
substantially related to the qualifications, functions or duties of a massage
technician.
      5.   The applicant has knowingly made a false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact to the city in the permit application process.
      6.   The application does not contain the information required by section
3-8-6 of this chapter.
      7.   The applicant has not satisfied the requirements of this chapter.
      8.   If the application is denied for failure to comply with subsection
A5 or A6 of this section, the applicant may not reapply for a period of six (6)
months from the date the application was denied.
   B.   All massage technicians shall comply with the following conditions and
any other conditions specified by the chief of police on issuance of the
massage technician's permit:
      1.   Except to the extent required, in writing, by a state licensed
medical practitioner, no massage technician, massage technician aide or
employee shall massage the genital or anal area of any patron or the breast or
breasts of any female patron. No massage technician, massage technician aide or
employee, while performing any task or service associated with the massage
business, shall be present in any room with another person unless the person's
genitals and anus, and in the case of a female, also her breasts, are fully and
opaquely covered.
      2.   No massage technician shall massage any patron unless the person's
genitals and anus, and in the case of a female, also her breasts, are fully and
opaquely covered at all times while the technician or other employee is present
in the same room as the patron.
      3.   Massage technicians shall wear an identification nameplate which
shall contain a photograph and surname of the technician, and must be worn on
the front of the outermost garment at all times during the hours of operation
of any massage establishment or off premises massage service granted a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
      4.   Massage technicians shall not perform any massage at any location
other than the location specified on the permit, unless performing an off
premises massage pursuant to permit.
      5.   While on duty, the massage technician shall not use any name other
than that specified on the photo identification card.
      6.   Massage attendants shall be fully clothed at all times. Such
clothing shall be of a fully opaque, nontransparent material and shall provide
complete, opaque covering from midthigh to three inches (3") below the collar
bone.
      7.   The massage technician consents to the inspection of the massage
establishment by the city building and safety, fire department and police
department and the health department for the purpose of determining that the
provisions of this chapter or other applicable laws or regulations are met. The
massage technician consents to the inspection of the occupied massage rooms by
the police department for the purpose of determining that the provisions of
this chapter are met upon occurrence of any of the offenses or violations of
any of the prohibitions listed in this section or section
3-8-4 of this chapter, which would require the posting of a notice to all
patrons pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
3-8-8: OFF PREMISES MASSAGE PERMIT:
   A.   For purposes of this chapter, a massage performed or administered off
premises and requiring an off premises massage permit shall be one performed or
administered for money or other consideration by a licensed massage technician
at a location other than a licensed massage establishment.
   B.   No person shall perform or administer a massage off of the premises of
a massage establishment, either for money or any other valuable consideration,
without obtaining a massage technician permit as provided under sections
3-8-6 and
3-8-7 of this chapter in conjunction with the issuance of a valid operator
permit and an off premises massage permit. An applicant for an off premises
permit shall file a written application on the required form with the chief of
police, who shall conduct an investigation. The applicant shall accompany the
application with the appropriate filing fee, as established by resolution of
the city council. The application shall contain or be accompanied by the
following information:
      1.   The complete name, residence and business address and telephone
number of the applicant.
      2.   The precise name and complete address and telephone number of each
person receiving the off premises massage.
      3.   The complete address at which the off premises massage is to be
conducted.
      4.   The specific reasons necessitating the performance of the massage at
a location other than a massage establishment. If the off premises massage is
to be conducted at a commercial business during normal business hours while
patron remains fully clothed, a letter confirming these conditions from the
commercial business shall accompany the application.
      5.   Such other information deemed necessary by the chief of police.
   C.   Upon receipt of a written application for an off premises massage
permit, the chief of police shall initiate an investigation to ascertain
whether such permit should be issued as requested. Within thirty (30) days of
the filing of an application, the chief of police shall conditionally approve
or deny the application. The chief of police shall issue the permit unless he
finds that it is not reasonably necessary to perform or administer the massage
at a location other than the massage establishment. The chief of police may
specify conditions on the issuance of the off premises massage permit that are
reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter and other laws.
(Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
3-8-9: REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Physical Facility And Building Code Requirements: The following
physical facility and building code requirements shall be applicable to all
nonexempt massage businesses or establishments, and to all massage businesses
or establishments described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of section 4612
of the California Business and Professions Code:
      1.   Except when there is no staff available to assure security for
massage therapy patrons and staff who are behind closed doors, no massage
therapy may be carried on behind locked, closed doors.
      2.   All doors to dressing rooms, toilet rooms and massage therapy rooms
or cubicles shall open inward and shall be self-closing. Draw drapes, curtain
enclosures, or accordion pleated closures in lieu of doors are acceptable on
all inner dressing rooms and massage therapy rooms or cubicles.
      3.   Minimum lighting equivalent to at least one 40-watt light shall be
provided in each massage therapy room or cubicle.
      4.   A massage table shall be used for all massage therapy, with the
exception of "Thai", "shiatsu", and similar forms of massage therapy, which may
be provided on a padded mat on the floor, provided the patron is fully attired
in loose clothing, pajamas, scrubs or similar style of garment. The tables
should have a minimum height of eighteen inches (18"). Beds, floor mattresses
and water beds are not permitted on the premises of the business or
establishment.
      5.   All locker facilities that are provided for the use of patrons shall
be fully secured for the protection of the patron's valuables, and the patron
shall be given control of the key or other means of access.
      6.   The business or establishment shall comply with the following state
building standards as adopted in section
9-1-1 of this code:
         a.   Have a system of adequate ventilation in accordance with the
provisions of section 705 of the uniform building code of 1982, as referenced
in part 2, chapter 7 of the matrix adoption tables, of title 24 of the
California Code of Regulations.
         b.   Have a supply of hot and cold running water in accordance with
part 5, section 1001(d)(1), of title 24 of the California Code of Regulations.
         c.   Have a supply of potable drinking water in accordance with part
5, section 1001(d)(3), of title 24 of the California Code of Regulations.
         d.   Provide hand washing facilities in accordance with part 5,
section 1001(d)(2), of title 24 of the California Code of Regulations.
         e.   Provide public toilet rooms in accordance with part 5, sections
910(b) and 910(c), and table no. C-1, of title 24 of the California Code of
Regulations.
   B.   Health And Safety Requirements: The following health and safety
requirements shall be applicable to all nonexempt massage businesses or
establishments, and to all massage businesses or establishments described in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of section 4612 of the California Business and
Professions Code:
      1.   The business or establishment shall at all times be equipped with an
adequate supply of clean sanitary towels, coverings and linens, and all massage
tables shall be covered with a clean sheet or other clean covering for each
patron. After a towel, covering or linen has once been used it shall be
deposited in a closed receptacle and not used until properly laundered and
sanitized. Towels, coverings and linens shall be laundered either by regular
commercial laundering or by a noncommercial laundering process which includes
immersion in water at least one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) for
not less than fifteen (15) minutes during the washing or rinsing operation.
Clean towels, coverings and linens shall be stored in closed, clean cabinets
when not in use.
      2.   All massage therapy rooms or cubicles, wet and dry heat rooms,
toilet rooms, shower compartments, and hot tubs and pools shall be thoroughly
cleaned and disinfected as needed, and at least once each business day the
premises are open and such facilities are in use. All bathtubs shall be
thoroughly cleaned and disinfected after each use.
      3.   All liquids, creams, or other preparations used on or made available
to patrons shall be kept in clean and closed containers. Powders may be kept in
clean shakers. All bottles and containers shall be distinctly and correctly
labeled to disclose their contents. When only a portion of a liquid, cream or
other preparation is to be used on or made available to a patron, it shall be
removed from the container in such a way as not to contaminate the remaining
portion.
      4.   No invasive procedures shall be performed on any patron. Invasive
procedures include, but are not limited to: a) application of electricity which
contracts the muscle; b) application of topical lotions, creams, or other
substances which affect living tissue, such as chemical peel preparations or
bleaches; c) penetration of the skin by metal needles; d) abrasion of the skin
below the nonliving, epidermal layers; e) removal of skin by means of any razor
edged instrument or other device or tool; and f) any needlelike instrument
which is used for the purpose of extracting skin blemishes and other similar
procedures.
      5.   All bathrobes, bathing suits and/or other garments that are provided
for the use of patrons shall be either fully disposable and shall not be used
by more than one patron, or shall be laundered after each use pursuant to
subsection B1 of this section.
      6.   All combs, brushes, and/or other personal items of grooming or
hygiene that are provided for the use of patrons shall be either fully
disposable and shall not be used by more than one patron, or shall be fully
disinfected after each use.
      7.   No patrons shall be allowed to use any shower facilities of the
business or establishment unless such patrons are wearing slip resistant
sandals or flip flops while in the shower compartment. All footwear such as
sandals or flip flops that are provided for the use of patrons shall be either
fully disposable and shall not be used by more than one patron, or shall be
fully disinfected after each use.
      8.   The patron's genitals, pubic area, anus, and female patron's breasts
below a point immediately above the top of the areola must be fully draped at
all times while any employee of the business or establishment is in the massage
therapy room or cubicle with the patron. No massage therapy shall be provided
to a patron that results in intentional contact, or occasional and repetitive
contact, with the genitals, anus, or areola of a patron.
   C.   Attire And Physical Hygiene Requirements: The following attire and
physical hygiene requirements shall be applicable to all licensees, and to all
massage therapists and massage practitioners who are employed or retained by a
nonexempt massage business or establishment, or by a massage business or
establishment described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of section 4612 of
the California Business and Professions Code:
      1.   All persons shall be clean and wear clean and sanitary outer
garments at all times. All outer garments shall be of a fully opaque,
nontransparent material and provide complete covering from at least the
midthigh to two inches (2") below the collarbone. The midriff may not be
exposed.
      2.   All persons shall thoroughly wash their hands with soap and water or
any equally effective cleansing agent immediately before providing massage
therapy to a patron. No massage therapy shall be provided upon a surface of the
skin or scalp of a patron where such skin is inflamed, broken (e.g., abraded,
cut) or where a skin infection or eruption is present.
      3.   No person afflicted with an infection or parasitic infestation
capable of being transmitted to a patron shall knowingly provide massage
therapy to a patron, or remain on the premises of a massage business or
establishment while so infected or infested. Infections or parasitic
infestations capable of being transmitted to a patron include, but are not
limited to: a) cold, influenza or other respiratory illness accompanied by a
fever, until twenty four (24) hours after resolution of the fever; b)
streptococcal pharyngitis ("strep throat"), until twenty four (24) hours after
treatment has been initiated and twenty four (24) hours after resolution of
fever; c) purulent conjunctivitis ("pinkeye"), until examined by a physician
and approved for return to work; d) pertussis ("whooping cough"), until five
(5) days of antibiotic therapy has been completed; e) varicella ("chickenpox"),
until the sixth day after onset of rash or sooner if all lesions have dried and
crusted; f) mumps, until nine (9) days after onset of parotid gland swelling;
g) tuberculosis, until a physician or local health department authority states
that the person is noninfectious; h) impetigo (bacterial skin infection), until
twenty four (24) hours after treatment has begun; i) pediculosis (head lice),
until the morning after first treatment; and j) scabies ("crabs"), until after
treatment has been completed. Bloodborne diseases, such as HIV/AIDS and
hepatitis B (HBV), shall not be considered infectious or communicable diseases
for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Inspection By Government Officials:
      1.   All nonexempt massage businesses or establishments, and all massage
businesses or establishments described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of
section 4612, shall permit representatives of the county health department, the
city of Reedley police department, fire department, community development
department, and/or other city or county departments or agencies, to conduct a
reasonable inspection of the public areas of and areas otherwise open to plain
view on or within the premises, to the extent allowed by law and during the
regular business hours of the business or establishment, for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with state and local law, including, but not limited to,
chapter 10.5 (commencing with section 4600) of the California Business and
Professions Code, the requirements of this chapter, or other applicable fire
and health and safety requirements.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the above
described government officials from pursuing any and all available legal
remedies to secure entry into and inspection of the premises of the business or
establishment if such entry is refused, or for any other reason allowed by law.
      3.   It is a violation of this chapter for the business or establishment
to prohibit or interfere with such lawful inspection of the premises at any
time it is open for business. (Ord. 2009-03, 8-11-2009)
3-8-10: CHANGE OF BUSINESS:
Every massage establishment operator shall immediately report to the chief of
police any and all changes of ownership or management of the massage
establishment, including, but not limited to, changes of manager or other
person principally in charge, stockholders holding more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of the corporation, officers, directors and partners and any and
all changes of name, style or designation under which the business is to be
conducted, and all changes of address or telephone numbers of the massage
business. A change of location of any of the premises may be approved by the
chief of police provided there is compliance with all applicable regulations of
the city. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
3-8-11: FEES:
The city council shall establish by resolution and, from time to time, may
amend the fees for the administration of this chapter. Fees required by this
chapter shall be in addition to any required under any other provision of this
code. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
3-8-12: EXEMPTION; EXISTING PERMITTEES:
   A.   The requirements of this chapter shall have no application and no
effect upon, and shall not be construed as applying to, any person designated
as follows: physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath or any registered or
licensed vocational nurse working under the supervision of a physician,
surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath duly licensed to practice their respective
professions in the state, nor shall the requirements of this chapter apply to
any treatment administered in good faith in the course of the practice of any
healing art or profession by any person licensed by the state to practice any
such art or profession under the Business and Professions Code of the state or
of any other law of this state. Practical nurses or other persons without
qualifications as massage technicians, or other persons not otherwise licensed
by the state to practice pursuant to the medical practice act 1 , whether
employed by physicians, surgeons, chiropractors or osteopaths or not, are not
given permission by this chapter to offer or give massages or massage
procedures.
   B.   Commencing on the effective date of this chapter, permits are to be
issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Existing operator and massage technician permits shall continue in
effect until expiration and shall be renewed in accordance with provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. Bus. & Prof.C., division 2, chapter 5.
3-8-13: TRANSFER AND DURATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   No permit issued hereunder shall be transferable to any other person or
establishment; provided, however, an additional location or change of location
of a massage technician permit will be allowed upon prior written notice to the
chief of police and payment of the appropriate transfer fee.
   B.   All operator, massage technician and off premises massage permits shall
be issued for the period of twelve (12) months and shall expire twelve (12)
months from their issuance, except that applicants who qualify as holistic
health massage operators or holistic health practitioners shall be renewed
every twelve (12) months.
   C.   Applications for the next ensuing permit shall be filed with the chief
of police before the expiration of the existing permit. Such renewal
applications must be filed no later than thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of the permit to prevent a lapse of the permit. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-
1996)
   D.   Each applicant for renewal shall file such information as may be
required by the chief of police to update the information required for his
original permit application. The applicant shall accompany the application or
renewal with the appropriate filing fee. (Ord. 97-03, 4-8-1997)
3-8-14: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, DENIAL AND APPEAL:
   A.   Violation And Noncompliance: The chief of police may refuse to renew a
permit or may revoke or suspend an existing permit on the grounds that the
applicant or permit holder has failed to comply with the permit conditions or
other requirements of this chapter. If a suspended permit lapses during the
suspension period, a new application may be made only at the end of the
suspension period. In any such case, the applicant or permit holder shall have
the right to appeal to the city council in the time and manner set forth in
this section.
   B.   Revocation And Suspension Of Operator Permit:
      1.   The chief of police may revoke or refuse to renew an operator permit
if he makes any of the findings for denial of a permit under subsection 3-8-4A
of this chapter, or upon any subsequent violation of any provision within one
year following prior suspension under subsection B2 of this section, or upon
demonstrated inability to operate or manage the massage establishment in a law
abiding manner that necessitates enforcement action by law enforcement
officers;
      2.   The chief of police may suspend an operator permit for a period of
thirty (30) days for each violation of subsection
3-8-4B,
3-8-8B or section
3-8-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Revocation And Suspension Of Massage Technician Permit:
      1.   The chief of police may revoke or refuse to renew a massage
technician permit if he makes any of the findings for denial of a permit under
subsection 3-8-7A of this chapter, or upon any subsequent violation of any
provision of this chapter within one year following a suspension under
subsection C2 of this section;
      2.   The chief of police may suspend a massage technician permit for a
period of thirty (30) days for each violation of subsection
3-8-7B,
3-8-8B or section
3-8-9 of this chapter.
   D.   Notice: When the chief of police concludes that grounds for denial,
suspension, revocation or refusal to renew a permit exist, the chief of police
shall serve the applicant or permit holder, either personally or by certified
mail, addressed to the business or residence address of applicant or permit
holder, with a notice of denial or notice of intent to suspend, revoke or
refuse to renew permit. This notice shall state the reasons for the proposed
action, the effective date of the decision, if no appeal is filed by applicant
or permit holder, and the right of the applicant or permit holder to appeal to
the city council the decision of the chief of police.
   E.   Appeal: The right to appeal to the city council shall terminate upon
the expiration of fifteen (15) days following receipt of the notice of intent
to suspend, revoke or refuse to renew permit. Any appeal from the decision of
the chief of police shall be by notice of appeal timely filed with the city
clerk accompanied by an appeal fee in an amount to be established by resolution
of the city council. The city council may preside over the hearing on appeal
or, in the alternative, the chief of police may appoint a hearing officer to
conduct the hearing, receive relevant evidence and submit to the city council
findings and recommendations to be considered by the city council. The city
council shall render its decision within forty five (45) days from the date of
the hearing or, in the event that a hearing officer has been appointed, within
forty five (45) days from the date on which the city council receives the
findings and recommendations of the hearing officer. The decision of the city
council shall be final. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
3-8-15: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Every person, except those persons who are specifically exempt by this
chapter, whether acting as an individual, owner, employee of the owner,
operator or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere helper for
the owner, employee or operator, or whether acting as a participant or worker
in any way, who gives a massage or operates a massage establishment or who
advertises massage services within the city without first obtaining a permit
and paying for a license to do so from the city, or who shall violate any
provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor 1 .
   B.   Any massage establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to
the provisions of this chapter shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be,
unlawful and a public nuisance, and the city may, in addition to or in lieu of
prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action or actions,
proceeding or proceedings, for the abatement, removal and enjoining thereof, in
the manner provided by law, and may take such other steps and may apply to such
court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or
remove such massage establishments and restrain and enjoin any person from
operating, conducting or maintaining a massage establishment contrary to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 96-001, 1-9-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code for general penalty provisions.
CHAPTER 9
CHARITABLE BINGO GAMES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Statutory And Constitutional Authority
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: Eligibility To Conduct Bingo Games
3-9-4: Bingo Permit; Application
3-9-5: Permit; Investigation
3-9-6: Permit; Denial By Finance Director
3-9-7: Appeal
3-9-8: Permit Nontransferable
3-9-9: Permit; Suspension Or Revocation
3-9-10: Suspension Or Revocation; Notice; Hearing
3-9-11: Minors; Public
3-9-12: Staffing And Operation
3-9-13: Profit Making Prohibited
3-9-14: Premises
3-9-15: Equipment
3-9-16: Financial Interest Restricted
3-9-17: Keeping Of Funds
3-9-18: Record Keeping
3-9-19: Prize Value Limit
3-9-20: Physical Presence Required
3-9-21: Hours Of Operation
3-9-22: Posting Of Permit
3-9-23: Inspection Of Premises
3-9-24: Penalty For Violation
3-9-25: Annual Renewal Fee Required
3-9-1: STATUTORY AND CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to the authority provided in California constitution section 19(c) of
article IV and Penal Code section 326.5e, the city establishes the following
requirements for the conduct of bingo games by nonprofit charitable
organizations in the city. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
BINGO: A game of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of designated
numbers or symbols on a card which conforms to numbers or symbols selected at
random. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-3: ELIGIBILITY TO CONDUCT BINGO GAMES:
No person shall be permitted to conduct bingo games in the city unless such
person possesses a valid certificate or letter from the franchise tax board and
the internal revenue service stating that they are exempted from the payment of
bank and corporation tax by Revenue and Taxation Code section 23701d and that a
contribution or gift to them would be a charitable contribution under internal
revenue code of 1954 section 170(c)(2), and possess a valid permit issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-4: BINGO PERMIT; APPLICATION:
   A.   No person or organization shall conduct a bingo game without first
obtaining a permit from the finance director. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
   B.   Written application for a permit required by this chapter shall be made
by affidavit under penalty of perjury and filed with the finance director. The
application shall be on a form provided by the finance director and shall be
accompanied by an application fee established by resolution of the city
council. The application shall contain the following: (Ord. 95-009, 6-13-1995)
      1.   Name of organization; names, signatures and addresses of all the
officers of the organization;
      2.   Days and hours of operation of bingo games;
      3.   Attached copies of certificates or letters evidencing exempt status
under Revenue and Taxation Code section 23701d and internal revenue code of
1954 section 170(c)(2), received from the franchise tax board and the internal
revenue service;
      4.   Address of premises where bingo games will be conducted;
      5.   Statement of ownership or lease of premises;
      6.   Purpose of which such premises are used by the organization;
      7.   Statement of ownership of bingo equipment used in the operation of
bingo games;
      8.   Statement of consent for chief of police to inspect any bank
accounts containing profits derived from bingo games;
      9.   Name of each individual, corporation, partnership, or other legal
entity which has a financial interest in the conduct of bingo games;
      10.   Name of person responsible for the operation of the bingo games;
      11.   Such further information as may be required by the finance
director. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-5: PERMIT; INVESTIGATION:
Upon receiving a completed application with fee, the finance director will send
the application to the chief of police. The chief of police will investigate to
determine whether the license should be issued. The chief of police shall have
the authority to obtain criminal history information for each person operating
or assisting in the operation of a bingo game for purposes of his
investigation. If he finds that such operators or persons assisting in the
operation of a bingo game have been convicted of any felony and/or crimes in
the past five (5) years involving lotteries, gambling, larceny, perjury,
bribery or fraud, he may without further proceeding, disapprove issuance of the
permit in question. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-6: PERMIT; DENIAL BY FINANCE DIRECTOR:
The finance director may refuse to issue a permit if, after consideration of
the application and any other papers, records and files the finance director
deems relevant, it is determined that the operation of a bingo game would be
injurious to the health, safety and morals of the people of the city or that
the permit application or proposed mode of operation of the bingo game is not
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-7: APPEAL:
Any applicant or permittee may appeal to the city council from any order or
action of the finance director respecting the issuance, denial, modification,
suspension or revocation of any permit. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981; amd. 2007 Code)
3-9-8: PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE:
A permit granted under this chapter shall not be transferable, either as to the
permittee or the location. Any attempt to transfer shall render the permit in
question invalid. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-9: PERMIT; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
Any permit issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the city
council on its own motion or on citation of the chief of police for violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or any provisions of federal or state
law. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; NOTICE; HEARING:
The holder of a bingo permit shall be given prompt notice of revocation or
suspension of the permit and shall immediately desist from conducting or
operating any bingo game. The notice shall fix a time and place, not less than
five (5) nor more than sixty (60) days after service thereof, at which time the
holder of the permit may appear before the city council and be granted a
hearing upon the merit of the suspension or revocation. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-11: MINORS; PUBLIC:
   A.   No minors shall be allowed to participate in any bingo game.
   B.   All bingo games shall be open to the public, not just to the members of
the nonprofit charitable organization. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-12: STAFFING AND OPERATION:
A bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by members of the nonprofit
charitable organization under which it is organized. Only an organization
authorized to conduct a bingo game by permit issued pursuant to this chapter
shall operate such game, or engage in the promotion, supervision or any other
phase of such game. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-13: PROFIT MAKING PROHIBITED:
No person or agent of such person shall receive a profit, wage, salary or other
income from any bingo game authorized by this chapter, except as a bona fide
prize received as a participant of such bingo game. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-14: PREMISES:
A nonprofit charitable organization shall conduct a bingo game only on property
owned or leased by it, and which property is used by such organization solely
for an office or for performance of the purposes for which the organization is
organized. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-15: EQUIPMENT:
All equipment used in the operation of bingo games shall be owned by the
organization authorized by permit and licensed to conduct such bingo games.
(Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-16: FINANCIAL INTEREST RESTRICTED:
No individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity except the
organization authorized by permit to conduct a bingo game shall hold a
financial interest in the conduct of such bingo game. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-17: KEEPING OF FUNDS:
All proceeds derived from a bingo game shall be kept in a special fund or
account and shall not be commingled with any other fund or account. Such
proceeds shall be used only for charitable purposes with the exception of the
following expenditures:
   A.   Such proceeds may be used for prizes;
   B.   A portion of such proceeds, not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the
proceeds before the deduction for prizes, or five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
month, whichever is less, may be used for rental of property, overhead and
including the purchase of bingo equipment and administrative expenses;
   C.   Such proceeds may be used to pay license fees. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-18: RECORD KEEPING:
Each permittee conducting a bingo game shall maintain detailed records of all
proceeds, profits, expenditures, prizes and other expenses relating to the
operation of the bingo game. Such records shall be retained for a period of
three (3) years and as long thereafter as may be required by any state or
federal law. Such records, including related bank accounts, shall be open for
inspection at any time by the chief of police, finance director or any state or
federal official in the performance of his duties. The permittee shall file a
yearly report under the penalty of perjury with the finance director containing
the following information:
   A.   Any changes in or additions to the information required in the
application;
   B.   The total amount of money received from the operation of bingo games
during the previous year;
   C.   The total amount paid out in prizes and a list of all prize winners;
   D.   Detailed costs to the permittee of the operation of the bingo games;
and
   E.   All disbursements from the fund. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-19: PRIZE VALUE LIMIT:
The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo games shall
not exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in cash, or kind, or both, for
each separate game which is held. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-20: PHYSICAL PRESENCE REQUIRED:
No person shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game unless such person is
physically present at the time and place at which the bingo game is being
conducted. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-21: HOURS OF OPERATION:
All bingo games shall be conducted only during the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) noon to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. No bingo sessions shall exceed six
(6) continuous hours, and not more than one bingo session shall be permitted in
one twenty four (24) hour period. A licensee shall not conduct bingo more than
one day per week. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-22: POSTING OF PERMIT:
A permittee shall keep the license posted in a conspicuous place within the
room in which bingo is being played during the conduct of any such game. The
permittee shall produce and exhibit the same whenever requested to do so by any
police officer or city official. (Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-23: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The chief of police shall have the authority to inspect the premises in order
to ensure that the operation of bingo games at the premises does not constitute
a violation of any state or federal law or provision of this chapter. (Ord.
651, 11-3-1981)
3-9-24: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Any person who violates section
3-9-4,
3-9-11, or
3-9-14 through
3-9-20 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor 1 .
   B.   A violation of section
3-9-13 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), which fine shall be deposited in the city's general fund.
(Ord. 651, 11-3-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code for general penalty provisions.
3-9-25: ANNUAL RENEWAL FEE REQUIRED:
An annual renewal fee established by resolution of the city council will be
paid to the finance department on the anniversary date of the permit. (Ord. 95-
009, 6-13-1995)
CHAPTER 10
FIREARMS DEALERS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Statutory Authority
3-10-2: License Required
3-10-3: Application
3-10-4: Conditions For License
3-10-5: License Period
3-10-6: Fees
3-10-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority of Penal Code sections 12070
and 12071 which require that businesses engaging in the sale of firearms be
licensed by the local agency as well as by state and federal authorities.
Except as otherwise provided herein, words, forms and phrases used in this
chapter shall have the same definitions as in Penal Code sections 12070 and
12071. (Ord. 747, 2-26-1991)
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person who is required to be licensed by state and federal laws as a
condition to the sale of firearms shall engage in the sale of firearms in the
city without first having obtained a license, as described in this chapter,
from the chief of police. (Ord. 747, 2-26-1991)
3-10-3: APPLICATION:
The applicant shall complete a form prescribed by the chief of police. The data
provided by the applicant shall include all information determined necessary by
the chief of police to evaluate the applicant's request with respect to the
factors to be considered in issuance of a license. (Ord. 747, 2-26-1991)
3-10-4: CONDITIONS FOR LICENSE:
Factors to be evaluated prior to the issuance of a license are:
   A.   Security of business premises.
   B.   Compliance of premises with building codes, zoning laws and regulations
of the city 1 .
   C.   Criminal history of applicant.
   D.   Reputation of applicant for honesty and integrity.
   E.   Number of local firearms dealers presently in operation.
   F.   Whether the applicant has obtained a city business license.
   G.   Whether the applicant is otherwise in compliance with state and federal
laws. (Ord. 747, 2-26-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles 9 and 10 of this code.
3-10-5: LICENSE PERIOD:
Licenses will be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance and
shall be revoked by the chief of police if it is determined that conditions
have changed with regard to licensee's compliance with factors used in
evaluating issuance of permit. (Ord. 747, 2-26-1991)
3-10-6: FEES:
A fee will be established by resolution of the city council to reimburse cost
for processing applicant license. (Ord. 747, 2-26-1991)
CHAPTER 11
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Purpose
3-11-2: Application And Fee
3-11-3: Public Hearing; Notice
3-11-4: Public Hearing; Procedure
3-11-5: Action By City Council
3-11-6: Time Limit For Issuance Of License
3-11-1: PURPOSE:
In 1994, the state Business and Professions Code was amended to give cities and
other local agencies the authority but not the obligation to make public
convenience or necessity findings in certain alcoholic beverage license
proceedings. The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for
considering requests for findings of public convenience or necessity for such
license applications. (Ord. 95-012, 9-12-1995)
3-11-2: APPLICATION AND FEE:
   A.   Application: Application for findings of public convenience or
necessity with respect to applications for those alcoholic beverage licenses
specified in Business and Professions Code section 23958.4, subdivision (b)(2)
to applications shall be made in writing to the community development
department and shall include the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Certification that the applicant is the owner of the premises or is
the authorized agent of the owner.
      3.   Address or description of the premises.
      4.   A statement describing in detail the reasons why the issuance of the
alcoholic beverage license under consideration will serve the public
convenience or necessity. The statement shall include, but not be limited to,
facts demonstrating the public convenience or necessity, including a physical
description of the premises, the type of business to be conducted on the
premises, unique or unusual features or services offered in connection with
such business and other facts the applicant deems pertinent.
      5.   A drawing of the site on which the premises are located and the
surrounding area for a distance of at least three hundred feet (300') from each
boundary of the site showing the existing locations of streets and property
lines and a list of the names and last known addresses of the recorded legal
owners, as shown on the latest adopted assessment roll of Fresno County, of all
properties shown on the drawing. County assessor's maps may be used for this
purpose.
   B.   Fee: The application shall be accompanied by a fee set by resolution of
the city council sufficient to cover the cost of handling the application as
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 95-012, 9-12-1995)
3-11-3: PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE:
   A.   When the community development department has accepted an application
as complete, the application shall be scheduled for a public hearing before the
city council for a determination of public convenience or necessity.
   B.   Notice of the public hearing shall be given not less than ten (10) days
nor more than twenty (20) days prior to the date of the hearing by:
      1.   Mailing postage prepaid, a notice of the time and place of the
hearing to the applicant and to all persons whose names appear on the property
owner's list submitted under the provisions of section
3-11-2 of this chapter;
      2.   Publishing a notice at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. (Ord. 95-012, 9-12-1995)
3-11-4: PUBLIC HEARING; PROCEDURE:
At the public hearing, the city council shall review the application and the
statement submitted therewith, shall consider the recommendations of city staff
including the chief of police, and shall receive pertinent evidence and
testimony with respect to public convenience or necessity for issuance of the
alcoholic beverage license described in the application. (Ord. 95-012, 9-12-
1995)
3-11-5: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
If, on the basis of the application and evidence and testimony submitted, the
city council determines that the issuance of the alcoholic beverage license in
question will serve the public convenience or necessity, the city council shall
adopt a resolution containing findings to that effect. If the city council
determines that the issuance of the alcoholic beverage license will not serve
the public convenience or necessity, the city council shall adopt a resolution
denying the application.
The city clerk shall transmit a certified copy of the resolution of the city
council to the state department of alcoholic beverage control. (Ord. 95-012, 9-
12-1995)
3-11-6: TIME LIMIT FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Findings of public convenience or necessity shall become void one year from the
date of adoption of the city council resolution containing such findings,
unless, prior to expiration of the one year, the alcoholic beverage license is
issued by the department of alcoholic beverage control. (Ord. 95-012, 9-12-
1995)
CHAPTER 12
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES 1
SECTION:
3-12-1: Purpose And Intent
3-12-2: Definitions
3-12-3: Location
3-12-4: Regulated Uses
3-12-5: Regulations Governing Existing Sexually Oriented Businesses
3-12-6: Locational Regulations; Sensitive Uses
3-12-7: Measurement Of Distance
3-12-8: Permits Required
3-12-9: Regulatory Permit Required
3-12-10: Investigation And Action On Application For Regulatory Permit
3-12-11: Permit Denial
3-12-12: Transfer Of Regulatory Permits
3-12-13: Performer Permit Required
3-12-14: Investigation And Action On Application For Performer Permit
3-12-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of Regulatory And Performer Permits
3-12-16: Appeal Of Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
3-12-17: Prohibitions Regarding Minors
3-12-18: Advertising And Construction Regulations
3-12-19: Register And Permit Number Of Employees
3-12-20: Display Of Permit And Identification Cards
3-12-21: Employment Of And Services Rendered To Minors Prohibited
3-12-22: Hours Of Operation
3-12-23: Time Limit For Filing Application For Permit
3-12-24: Violations
3-12-25: Injunction
3-12-26: Inspection
3-12-27: Criminal Penalties And Additional Legal, Equitable And Injunctive
Relief
3-12-28: Immunity From Prosecution
3-12-29: Severability
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 9 of this code.
3-12-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses, including the regulation of live nude and live seminude
entertainment, in order to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses. The city council
finds that among these secondary effects are increased incidents of unlawful
conduct and disorderly behavior, generating a disproportionate demand for
police responses; depreciated property values; vacancy problems; blighted
conditions; and interference with neighbors' enjoyment of property due to
debris, noise, vandalism and depreciated property values. In adopting this
chapter, the city council takes legislative notice of the existence and content
of the following studies that substantiate the adverse secondary effects of
sexually oriented businesses:
      1.   "Summary Of The Final Report Of The Attorney General's Commission On
Pornography".
      2.   "Report To The American Center For Law And Justice On The Secondary
Impacts Of Sex Oriented Business".
      3.   "Report Of The Attorney General's Working Group On The Regulation Of
Sexually Oriented Businesses".
      4.   "Final Report To The City Of Garden Grove: The Relationship Between
Crime And Adult Business Operations On Garden Grove Boulevard".
      5.   "Adult Entertainment: Land Use And Legal Perspectives".
   B.   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor the effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any nonobscene
communicative materials, including nonobscene sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is neither the intent nor the effect of this chapter to restrict
or deny access by adults to nonobscene sexually oriented materials protected by
the first amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
nonobscene sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is
it the intent nor is it the effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material or material harmful to minors. (Ord. 2000-08,
5-23-2000)
3-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ADULT ARCADE: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors or similar machines,
or other image producing machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer persons
each, are used to show still or moving images, by means of film, motion
picture, videocassette, video disk, photographic slide or other photographic or
computer generated means, where such still or moving images are characterized
by the depiction, simulation or description of "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE; ADULT NOVELTY STORE; ADULT VIDEO STORE; ADULT INTERNET WEBSITE
PROVIDER: A commercial establishment which devotes a "significant or
substantial portion" of the interior floor space or advertising space of its
business either to the direct, mail order or internet sale or to the rental or
viewing, or internet viewing, for any form of consideration, of one or more
books, magazines, periodicals or other printed or photographic images, whether
still or moving, whether recorded or displayed by means of film, motion
picture, videocassette, video disk, photographic slide or other photographic or
computer generated means, where such still or moving images, be they printed,
computer generated, electronic or photographic, are characterized by the
depiction, simulation or description of "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas"; or commercial establishment which devotes a
"significant or substantial portion" of the interior floor space or advertising
space of its business to the direct, mail order or internet sale of
instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection
with "specified sexual activities"; provided, that while an establishment may
have other principal business purposes that do not involve the offering for
sale of such instruments, devices or paraphernalia or the offering for sale or
rental or viewing of materials depicting or describing "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical activities", nonetheless such an
establishment shall be categorized as an "adult bookstore", "adult novelty
store", "adult video store" or "adult internet website provider" and such other
business purposes shall not serve to exempt such establishment from being
categorized as an "adult bookstore", "adult novelty store", "adult video store"
or "adult internet website provider" so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale, rental or viewing, for any form of
consideration, of one or more of the specified materials described herein.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, "bottle club" or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are therein
served, which "regularly features": a) persons who appear "seminude"; or b)
live performances which are characterized either by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by the performance or simulation of "specified sexual
activities"; or c) the presentation, showing, sale, rental or viewing of
photographs of still or moving images by means of the sale, rental or showing
of film, motion picture, videocassette, video disk, photographic slide or other
photographic or computer generated devices or mechanisms, where such still or
moving images available thereby or manifested therewith are characterized by
the depiction, simulation or description of "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
ADULT MOTEL: A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which: a)
offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and which provides
patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, video disks, slides or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and which advertises the
availability of this "sexually oriented material" by means of a sign visible
from the public right of way, or by means of any off premises advertising
including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, leaflets,
radio or television; or b) offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time
less than ten (10) consecutive hours; or c) allows a tenant or occupant to
subrent the sleeping room for a time period of less than ten (10) consecutive
hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where film, motion
pictures, videocassettes, video disks, slides or similar photographic
reproductions characterized by the depicting or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are "regularly featured" for
any form of consideration.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which for any form or consideration, "regularly features" persons
who appear seminude or live performances which are characterized by exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
EMPLOYEE: A person who works or performs in and/or for a "sexually oriented
business", regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
ESTABLISHING: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any business as a new business
subsequent to the effective date hereof; or
   B.   The conversion of any existing business (whether or not a "sexually
oriented business") to a "sexually oriented business", as defined in this
chapter, subsequent to the effective date hereof; or
   C.   The addition of any "sexually oriented business", as defined in this
chapter, to any other existing "sexually oriented business"; or
   D.   The relocation of any "sexually oriented business".
NUDE; NUDITY; OR STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance or showing of the human bare
buttocks, anus, male genitals, female genitals, areola or nipple of the female
breast, pubic hair or pubic region.
OPERATOR: Means and includes the owner, custodian, manager, operator or person
in charge of any sexually oriented business.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building owned, leased or held by the United States, the
state, the county, the city, any special district, school district or any other
agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
PUBLIC BUILDING REGULARLY FREQUENTED BY CHILDREN: Any building owned, leased or
held by the United States, the county, the city, any special district, school
district or any other agency or political subdivision of the state or the
United States, which building is used as a library, community center,
children's museum or youth center or any other use having special attraction to
children, or which building is often visited by children for social activities,
unaccompanied by their parents or other adult custodians.
PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA: Public land which has been designated for park,
recreational or arts activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball or
tennis court, pedestrian/bicycle path, open space or similar public land within
the city which is under the control, operation or management of the city.
REGULARLY FEATURES OR REGULARLY FEATURED: With respect to an "adult cabaret",
"adult theater" or "adult motion picture theater", what is featured or shown at
least one time within any thirty (30) day period; or carried on as part of the
business's routine scheduling of events or activities and not so infrequently
as to constitute a single, rare or unusual event or occurrence.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which
is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
RESIDENTIAL ZONE: Property which is zoned as residential and/or as a single-
family house, duplex, townhouse, multiple-family dwelling or mobile home park
or subdivision, including property within the RE residential estate district,
the R one-family residential district and the RM multi-family residential
district.
SCHOOL: Any public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, colleges and
universities. "School" includes the school grounds, but does not include the
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school.
SEMINUDE: A state in which clothing or other opaque covering covers and
obscures no more than the genitals and pubic region of a male human, or no more
than the genitals, pubic region, and entirety of the breast of a female human
below a point at the top of the areola, with the exception of portions of the
body covered by supporting straps or devices.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means: a) "adult arcade"; b) "adult bookstore"; c)
"adult cabaret"; d) "adult internet website provider"; e) "adult mail order
distribution site"; f) "adult motion picture theater"; g) "adult novelty
store"; h) "adult theater"; i) "adult video store"; or j) "adult motel", as
defined in this section.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIALS: Any physical object or visual image, however
stored, recorded or manifested, that is offered for sale, rental or viewing and
that simulates, depicts or describes "specified anatomical areas" or that is
offered for sale or rental for use in "specified sexual activities" (other than
condoms sold in conformity with laws otherwise applicable).
SIGNIFICANT OR SUBSTANTIAL PORTION: Means that fifteen percent (15%) or more of
interior floor space or display space is devoted to depiction of "specified
sexual activities" or "sexually oriented materials", or that fifteen percent
(15%) or more of actual stock in trade regularly displayed and immediately
available for use, rental, purchase, viewing or perusal is comprised of
"sexually oriented materials", as defined in this section.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA: Means and includes any one or more of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breast below the top of the areola; or
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY: Means and includes, without limitation, of any of
the following:
   A.   The fondling or other intentional touching of one's own or another's
human genitals, pubic region, pubic hair, perineum, anus or female breast,
whether the person so touched is nude, seminude or clothed or covered, or the
fondling or other intentional touching of the buttocks of any nude or seminude
person; or
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, whether the actor
or actors is or are nude, seminude or clothed or covered, including actual or
simulated vaginal intercourse, anal intercourse, oral copulation, sodomy, oral
anal copulation, bestiality, flagellation or masochism or torture in the
context of a sexual act, anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia,
cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia or sapphism; or
   C.   Whether the actor is nude, seminude or clothed or covered, acts of
human masturbation, actual or simulated; animal masturbation, actual or
simulated; erotic or lewd touching of an animal, actual or simulated; or human
or animal ejaculation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence
discernible to any other person, or male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered; or
   E.   The display or showing of excretory, urinary or female menstrual
functions or vaginal or anal irrigation as part of or in connection with any of
the activities set forth in subsections A through D of this definition; or
   F.   Dancing by one or more live persons in a manner that exposes to the
view of any other person a "specified anatomical area" or that constitutes the
public simulation by a clothed person of any "specified sexual activity".
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An increase in the floor
areas occupied by the business by more than fifteen percent (15%), as the floor
areas exist on the effective date hereof.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business; or
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device which
transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by request
or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the ownership
or control. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-3: LOCATION:
No owner or other person with managerial control over a sexually oriented
business shall permit any person on the premises of the sexually oriented
business to engage in a live showing of a nude human male or nude human female,
as defined. This provision may not be complied with by applying an opaque
covering simulating the appearance of the specific anatomical part required to
be covered. Subject to compliance with all conditions, regulations and
procedures enumerated in this chapter, a person may use a premises for a
sexually oriented business only within the M industrial districts, which
districts includes the ML light industrial district, the MH heavy industrial
district and the MP planned industrial district; provided, however, that
sexually oriented businesses shall be restricted to the area bounded by Dinuba
Avenue on the north; Floral Avenue (or its extension) on the south; the Union
Pacific Railroad line (formerly Southern Pacific Railroad) on the west; and
one-fourth (1/4) mile east of Buttonwillow Avenue on the east. Sexually
oriented businesses shall be prohibited in all other areas and zone districts
in the city. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-4: REGULATED USES:
The following sexually oriented businesses are subject to the provisions of
this chapter:
   A.   Adult arcade;
   B.   Adult bookstore;
   C.   Adult cabaret;
   D.   Adult internet website provider;
   E.   Adult mail order distribution site;
   F.   Adult motel;
   G.   Adult motion picture theater;
   H.   Adult novelty store;
   I.   Adult theater;
   J.   Adult video store;
   K.   Any other business which devotes a substantial portion of its interior
floor space or display space to sexually oriented materials or specified sexual
activities, regardless of the name, title or designation used by the business
itself. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-5: REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
A sexually oriented business hereinafter lawfully established and operating as
a conforming use is not rendered a nonconforming use by the location,
subsequent to its establishment, of a religious institution, school, public
park or public building regularly frequented by children or a residential zone
district within six hundred feet (600') of the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-6: LOCATIONAL REGULATIONS; SENSITIVE USES:
No person shall cause or permit the establishing of any "sexually oriented
business" (as defined within section
3-12-2 of this chapter) within six hundred feet (600') of another sexually
oriented business; within six hundred feet (600') of any religious institution,
school, regularly established boys' club or girls' club or public building
regularly frequented by children, public park, public trail or public building;
or within six hundred feet (600') of any residential zone. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-
2000)
3-12-7: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE:
For purposes of sections
3-12-5 and
3-12-6 of this chapter, the distance between any two (2) sexually oriented
businesses or between a sexually oriented business and any of the sensitive
uses described in section
3-12-6 of this chapter shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or topography, from the nearest point on the property
line of the property on which the one sexually oriented business is located to
the nearest point on the property line of the property on which the other
sexually oriented business, or the said sensitive use is located; provided,
however, that if a public street is located adjacent to any affected religious
institution, school, regularly established boys' club or girls' club, public
building regularly frequented by children, public park, public building or
residential zone, between said sensitive use and a proposed sexually oriented
business, then said distance shall be measured from the edge of the street
right of way immediately opposite the said sensitive use. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-
2000)
3-12-8: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Business Regulatory Permit: It shall be unlawful for
any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, or to permit to be engaged in,
conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in the city, the operation of
a sexually oriented business unless the person first obtains and continues to
maintain in full force and effect a permit from the city as herein required.
   B.   Sexually Oriented Business Performer Permit: It shall be unlawful for
any persons to engage in or participate in any live performance depicting
specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities in a
sexually oriented business unless the person first obtains and continues in
full force and effect a permit from the city as herein required. (Ord. 2000-08,
5-23-2000)
3-12-9: REGULATORY PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person who proposes to maintain, operate or conduct a sexually
oriented business in the city shall file an application with the police chief
upon a form provided by the city and shall pay a filing fee, as established by
resolution adopted by the city council from time to time, which shall not be
refundable.
   B.   Sexually oriented business regulatory permits are nontransferable,
except in accordance with section
3-12-12 of this chapter. Therefore, all applications shall include the
following information:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his
legal name, including any aliases, address and submit satisfactory written
proof that he is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership, the partners shall state the
partnership's complete name, address, the names of all partners, whether the
partnership is general or limited and attach a copy of the partnership
agreement, if any.
      3.   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall provide its
complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is
in good standing under the laws of California, the names and capacity of all
officers and directors, the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
      4.   If the applicant is an individual or a partnership, whether the
individual applicant or any general partner has ever been convicted of:
         a.   Any of the offenses set forth in Penal Code sections 315, 316,
266a, 266b, 266c, 266e, 266g, 266h, 266i, 647(a), 647(b) and 647(d) as those
sections now exist or may hereafter be amended or renumbered.
         b.   The equivalent of the aforesaid offenses outside the state of
California.
   C.   If the applicant is an individual, he shall sign the application. If
the applicant is other than an individual, an officer of the business entity or
an individual with a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in the business
entity shall sign the application.
   D.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, the applicant shall file the
fictitious name of the sexually oriented business and show proof of
registration of the fictitious name.
   E.   A description of the type of the sexually oriented business for which
the permit is requested and the proposed address where the sexually oriented
business will operate, plus the names and addresses of the owners and lessors
of the sexually oriented business site.
   F.   The address to which notice of action on the application is to be
mailed.
   G.   The names of all employees, independent contractors and other persons
who will perform at the sexually oriented business, who are required by section
3-12-13 of this chapter to obtain a sexually oriented business performer permit
(for ongoing reporting requirements see section
3-12-13 of this chapter).
   H.   A site plan, drawn to scale, which indicates clearly, with full
dimensions, the following information:
      1.   Lot Or Site: Lot or site dimensions.
      2.   All Buildings And Structures: Location, size, height, proposed use.
      3.   Yards: Yards and space between buildings.
      4.   Walls And Fences: Location, height and materials.
      5.   Off Street Parking And Off Street Loading: Location, number of
spaces and dimensions of parking and loading areas, internal circulation
pattern.
      6.   Access; Pedestrian, Vehicular, Service: Points of ingress and
egress, internal circulation.
      7.   Signs: Locations, size, height and type of illumination, if any,
including hooding devices.
      8.   Exterior Lighting: Location and general nature, hooding devices,
strength (in footcandles), site coverage.
   I.   A diagram showing the interior configuration of the premises, including
a statement of the total floor area occupied by the sexually oriented business.
The diagram must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions
of the interior of the premises. Location of all doors and windows shall be
shown on the diagram.
   J.   A certificate and straight line drawing prepared within thirty (30)
days prior to application depicting the building and the portion thereof to be
occupied by the sexually oriented business, and: 1) the property line of any
other sexually oriented business within six hundred feet (600') of the property
line of the sexually oriented business for which a permit is requested; and 2)
the property lines of any church, school, park, residential zone or other
sensitive land use within six hundred feet (600') of the property line of the
sexually oriented business.
   K.   If the police chief determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the police chief shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and, on request of the applicant, grant the applicant ten (10) days
or less to properly complete the application. The time period for granting or
denying a permit shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is
granted an extension of time.
   L.   The fact that an applicant possesses other types of state or city
permits or licenses does not exempt the applicant from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually oriented business regulatory permit. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-
2000)
3-12-10: INVESTIGATION AND ACTION ON APPLICATION FOR REGULATORY PERMIT:
   A.   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of the application
and permit fees, the police chief shall immediately stamp the application as
received and promptly investigate the information contained in the application
to determine whether the applicant shall be issued a sexually oriented business
regulatory permit.
   B.   Within forty five (45) days of receipt of the completed application,
the police chief shall complete the investigation, grant or deny the
application in accordance with the provisions of this section, and so notify
the applicant as follows:
      1.   The police chief shall write or stamp "granted" or "denied" on the
application and date and sign such notation.
      2.   If the application is denied, the police chief shall attach to the
application a statement of the reasons for denial.
      3.   If the application is granted, the police chief shall attach a copy
of the application to a sexually oriented business regulatory permit.
      4.   A copy of the application as granted or denied and the permit, if
any, shall be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid,
addressed to the applicant at the address stated in the application.
   C.   The police chief shall grant the applicant and issue the sexually
oriented business regulatory permit upon findings that the proposed business
meets the locational criteria of section
3-12-6 of this chapter, and that the applicant has met all of the development
and performance standards and requirements of section
3-12-9 of this chapter, unless the application is denied for one or more of the
reasons set forth in section
3-12-11 of this chapter. The permittee shall post the permit conspicuously in
the sexually oriented business premises.
   D.   If the police chief grants the application or if the police chief
neither grants nor denies the application within forty five (45) days after it
is stamped as received (except as provided in subsection 3-12-9K of this
chapter), the applicant may begin operating the sexually oriented business for
which the permit was sought, subject to strict compliance with the development
and performance standards and requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-
23-2000)
3-12-11: PERMIT DENIAL:
The police chief shall deny the application for any of the following reasons:
   A.   The building, structure, equipment or location used by the business for
which a sexually oriented business regulatory permit is required do not comply
with the requirements and standards of the health, zoning, fire and safety laws
of the city and the state of California, or with the locational or development
and performance standards and requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The applicant, his employee, agent, partner, director, officer,
shareholder or manager has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the application for a sexually oriented business
regulatory permit.
   C.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   D.   The required application fee has not been paid.
   E.   The sexually oriented business does not comply with the zoning
ordinance locational standards, section
3-12-6 of this chapter.
   F.   The applicant or any of his employees, partners, officers or directors
(if the applicant is a corporation or partnership) has been convicted of any of
the offenses specified in subsection 3-12-13D5 of this chapter.
Each sexually oriented business regulatory permit shall expire one year from
the date of issuance, and may be renewed only by filing with the police chief a
written request for renewal, accompanied by the annual permit fee and a copy of
the permit to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date of the permit. When made less than thirty
(30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be
stayed. Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided herein for
action upon applications for permits. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-12: TRANSFER OF REGULATORY PERMITS:
   A.   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a sexually oriented business regulatory permit at any place other
than the address of the sexually oriented business stated in the application
for the permit.
   B.   A permittee shall not transfer ownership or control of a sexually
oriented business or transfer a sexually oriented business regulatory permit to
another person unless and until the transferee obtains an amendment to the
permit from the police chief stating that the transferee is now the permittee.
Such an amendment may be obtained only if the transferee files an application
with the police chief in accordance with section
3-12-9 of this chapter, accompanies the application with a transfer fee in an
amount set by resolution of the city council, and the police chief determines
in accordance with section
3-12-10 of this chapter that the transferee would be entitled to the issuance
of an original permit.
   C.   No permit may be transferred when the police chief has notified the
permittee that the permit has been or may be suspended or revoked.
   D.   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void, and the permit shall be
deemed revoked. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-13: PERFORMER PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in or participate in any live performance
depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities
in a sexually oriented business in any location within the city without a valid
sexually oriented business performer permit issued by the city for the said
location. All persons who have been issued a sexually oriented business
regulatory permit shall promptly supplement the information provided as part of
the application for the permit required by section
3-12-9 of this chapter, with the names of all performers required to obtain a
sexually oriented business performer permit, within thirty (30) days of any
change in the information originally submitted. Failure to submit such changes
shall be grounds for suspension of the sexually oriented business regulatory
permit.
   B.   The police chief shall grant, deny and renew sexually oriented business
performer permits.
   C.   The application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by the
police chief. An original and two (2) copies of the completed and sworn permit
application shall be filed with the police chief.
   D.   The completed application shall contain the following information and
be accompanied by the following documents:
      1.   The applicant's legal name and any other names (including "stage
names" and aliases) used by the applicant;
      2.   Age, date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of:
         a.   Any of the offenses set forth in Penal Code sections 315, 316,
266a, 266b, 266c, 266e, 266g, 266h, 266i, 647(a), 647(b) and 647(d) as those
sections now exist or may hereafter be amended or renumbered.
         b.   The equivalent of the aforesaid offenses outside the state of
California.
      6.   Whether such person is or has ever been licensed or registered as a
prostitute, or otherwise authorized by the laws of any other jurisdiction to
engage in prostitution in such other jurisdiction. If any person mentioned in
this subsection has ever been licensed or registered as a prostitute, or
otherwise authorized by the laws of any other state to engage in prostitution,
a statement shall be submitted giving the place of such registration, licensing
or legal authorization and the inclusive dates during which such person was so
licensed, registered or authorized to engage in prostitution;
      7.   State driver's license or identification number;
      8.   Satisfactory written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen
(18) years of age;
      9.   The applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the police
department and a color photograph clearly showing the applicant's face. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant.
      10.   If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a license,
the applicant shall attach a copy of the license to be renewed.
   E.   The completed application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
application fee. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the city
council.
   F.   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application fee, the
police chief shall immediately stamp the application as received and promptly
investigate the application.
   G.   If the police chief determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the police chief shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and grant the applicant not more than ten (10) days to properly
complete the application. The time period for granting or denying a permit
shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an
extension of time. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-14: INVESTIGATION AND ACTION ON APPLICATION FOR PERFORMER PERMIT:
   A.   Within forty five (45) days after receipt of the properly completed
application, the police chief shall grant or deny the application and so notify
the applicant as follows:
      1.   The police chief shall write or stamp "granted" or "denied" on the
application and date and sign such notation.
      2.   If the application is denied, the police chief shall attach to the
application a statement of the reasons for denial.
      3.   If the application is granted, the police chief shall attach to the
application a copy of the sexually oriented business performer permit.
      4.   A copy of the application as granted or denied and the permit, if
any, shall be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid,
addressed to the applicant at the residence address stated in the application.
   B.   The police chief shall grant the application and issue the permit
unless the application is denied for one or more of the reasons set forth in
subsection D of this section.
   C.   If the police chief grants the application or if the police chief
neither grants nor denies the application within forty five (45) days after it
is stamped as received (except as provided in subsection
3-12-13G of this chapter), the applicant may begin performing in the capacity
for which the permit was sought.
   D.   The police chief shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of a material fact in the application for a permit or in any report
or document required to be filed with the application.
      2.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
      3.   The sexually oriented business performer permit is to be used for
performing in a business prohibited by state or city law.
      4.   The applicant has been registered in any state as a prostitute.
      5.   The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses enumerated
in subsection
3-12-13D5 of this chapter or convicted of an offense outside the state of
California that would have constituted any of the described offenses if
committed within the state of California. A permit may be issued to any person
convicted of the described crimes if the conviction occurred more than five (5)
years prior to the date of the application.
   E.   Each sexually oriented business performer permit shall expire one year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed only by filing with the police
chief a written request for renewal, accompanied by the application fee and a
copy of the permit to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at
least thirty (30) days before the expiration date of the permit. When made less
than thirty (30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit
will not be stayed. Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided
herein for applications for permits.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager or permittee in
charge of or in control of a sexually oriented business which provides live
entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified
sexual activities to allow any person to perform such entertainment who is not
in possession of a valid, unrevoked sexually oriented business performer
permit. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF REGULATORY AND PERFORMER PERMITS:
A sexually oriented business regulatory permit or sexually oriented business
performer permit may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedures
and standards of this section.
   A.   In the event that the chief of police of the city has reasonable cause
to believe and does believe that any permittee or other person employed by or
representing such permittee is violating any of the provisions of this chapter
or any other law or ordinance relating to the business of the permittee
including, but not limited to, those offenses listed in subsection B of this
section, he shall have power to and shall be authorized to suspend such license
and all permits issued. If no written appeal is filed with the city clerk
protesting such suspension within two (2) business days of the date of such
suspension, such suspension shall be deemed permanent and all such permits
issued thereunder shall be deemed revoked.
   B.   A permittee may be subject to suspension or revocation of his permit,
or be subject to other appropriate disciplinary action, for any of the
following causes arising from the acts or omissions of the permittee, or an
employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder or manager of a sexually
oriented business:
      1.   The permittee has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material facts in the application for a permit, or in any report
or record required to be filed with the city.
      2.   The permittee, employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder or
manager of a sexually oriented business has knowingly allowed or permitted, and
has failed to make a reasonable effort to prevent the occurrence of any of the
following on the premises of the sexually oriented business, or in the case of
a sexually oriented business performer, the permittee has engaged in one of the
activities described below while on the premises of a sexually oriented
business:
         a.   Any act of unlawful sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation
or masturbation.
         b.   Use of the establishment as a place where unlawful solicitations
for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation occur.
         c.   Any conduct constituting a criminal offense which requires
registration under Penal Code section 290.
         d.   The occurrence of acts of lewdness, assignation or prostitution,
including any conduct constituting violations of Penal Code sections 315, 316,
or 318 or subdivision (b) of section 647.
         e.   Any act constituting a violation of provisions in the Penal Code
relating to obscene matter or distribution of harmful matter to minors
including, but not limited to, Penal Code sections 311 through 313.4.
         f.   Any conduct prohibited by this chapter.
      3.   Failure to abide by a disciplinary action previously imposed by an
appropriate city official. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-16: APPEAL OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
In the event that any applicant desires to appeal from any order, denial, order
of suspension or any other ruling of the police chief made under the provisions
of this chapter dealing with sexually oriented business regulatory permits or
sexually oriented business performer permits, such applicant or any other
person aggrieved thereby shall file written notice of such appeal with the city
clerk and such matters shall be heard at the next regular meeting of the city
council, at which time the city council shall hear and receive evidence,
written and oral, upon all matters involved. Upon the filing of such written
notice of appeal, the order, denial, order of suspension or other ruling of the
police chief shall be stayed pending the decision of the city council. The
decision of the city council shall be final upon all parties concerned. The
effect of the decision of the city council shall be stayed while the permittee
seeks prompt judicial review, if any. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-17: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS:
It is unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business, and knowingly or with reasonable
cause to know, permits, suffers or allows any one or more of the following to
occur:
   A.   Admittance of a person under eighteen (18) years of age to the business
premises; or
   B.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to remain at the business
premises; or
   C.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase goods or services
at the business premises; or
   D.   A person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to work at the
business premises as an employee; or
   E.   If the business operates under the authority of a license issued by
ABC, admits anyone under the age of twenty one (21) or allows any other
activity to occur within or on the premises of the business which is prohibited
by the license issued by ABC or by ABC regulations. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-18: ADVERTISING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business and advertises the
presentation of any activity prohibited by any applicable state statute or
local ordinance.
   B.   It is unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business and displays or otherwise
exhibits the materials or performances of such sexually oriented business in
any advertising. This prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the
existence or location of such sexually oriented business.
   C.   A permitted use shall have a separate business entrance adjacent to the
required parking area and no other nonadult use shall be permitted in the same
building when a sexually oriented business is operated.
   D.   All signing and architectural graphics shall comply with the provisions
of title 10, chapter 14 of this code.
   E.   Maximum occupancy load, fire exits, aisles and fire equipment shall be
regulated, designed and provided in accordance with the fire department and
building and safety division regulations and standards.
   F.   No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used in a sexually oriented
business for the amplification of any sound to a level discernible by the
public beyond the walls of the building in which such use is conducted.
   G.   The building entrance to a sexually oriented business shall be clearly
and legibly posted by a notice indicating that minors are excluded from
entering the premises.
   H.   All off street parking areas and entrances to the premises of a
sexually oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk until at least the
closing hour of operation with a lighting system which provides an average
maintained horizontal illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking
surface and/or walkways. This required lighting level is established in order
to provide sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving
the sexually oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees
and to reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting
shall be shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   I.   The sexually oriented business shall provide and maintain separate
restroom facilities for male patrons and employees and female patrons and
employees. Male patrons and employees shall be prohibited from using the
restroom(s) for females, and female patrons and employees shall be prohibited
from using the restroom(s) for males, except to carry out duties of repair,
maintenance and cleaning of the restroom facilities. The restrooms shall be
free from any adult material. Restrooms shall not contain television monitors
or other motion picture or video projection, recording or reproduction
equipment. The foregoing provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business which deals exclusively with sale or rental of adult
material which is not used or consumed on the premises, such as an adult
bookstore or adult video store, and which does not provide restroom facilities
to its patrons or the general public.
   J.   The following additional requirements shall pertain to sexually
oriented businesses providing live entertainment depicting specified anatomical
areas or involving specified sexual activities, except for businesses regulated
by the alcoholic beverage control commission:
      1.   No person shall perform live entertainment for patrons of a sexually
oriented business except upon a stage at least eighteen inches (18") above the
level of the floor which is separated by a distance of at least ten feet (10')
from the nearest area occupied by patrons, and no patron shall be permitted
within ten feet (10') of the stage while the stage is occupied by an
entertainer. "Entertainer" shall mean any person who is an employee or
independent contractor of the sexually oriented business, or any person who,
with or without any compensation or other form of consideration, performs live
entertainment for patrons of a sexually oriented business.
      2.   The sexually oriented business shall provide separate dressing room
facilities for entertainers which are exclusively dedicated to the
entertainers' use.
      3.   The sexually oriented business shall provide an entrance/exit for
entertainers which is separate from the entrance/exit used by patrons.
      4.   The sexually oriented business shall provide access for entertainers
between the stage and the dressing rooms which is completely separated from the
patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible, the sexually
oriented business shall provide a minimum three foot (3') wide walk aisle for
entertainers between the dressing room area and the stage, with a railing,
fence or other barrier separating the patrons and the entertainers capable of
(and which actually results in) preventing any physical contact between patrons
and entertainers.
      5.   No entertainer, either before, during or after performances, shall
have physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact
with any entertainer either before, during or after performances by such
entertainer. This subsection J5 shall only apply to physical contact on the
premises of the sexually oriented business.
      6.   Fixed rail(s) at least thirty inches (30") in height shall be
maintained establishing the separations between entertainers and patrons
required by this subsection.
      7.   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any entertainer
and no entertainer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
      8.   No owner or other person with managerial control over a "sexually
oriented business" (as that term is defined herein) shall permit any person on
the premises of the sexually oriented business to engage in a live showing of
the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a
fully opaque coverage, and/or the female breast with less than a fully opaque
coverage over any part of the nipple or areola and/or covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state. This provision may not be complied with by applying
an opaque covering simulating the appearance of the specified anatomical part
required to be covered.
   K.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a
film, videocassette, video disk or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   The interior diagram of a sexually oriented business regulatory
permit, required pursuant to subsection
3-12-9I of this chapter shall specify the location of one or more manager's
stations and the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any
portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted to enter. A
manager's station may not exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area with
no dimensions greater than eight feet (8'). No alteration in the configuration
or location of a manager's station may be made without the prior approval of
the police chief.
      2.   It is the duty of the owner or owners and the operator or operators
of the premises to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated at
each manager's station at all times that any patron is present inside the
premises.
      3.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video viewing capability. If the premises
has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this subsection K3 must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      4.   The view area specified in subsection K3 of this section shall
remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials at all times. No patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted to enter.
      5.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time.
      6.   The walls or partitions between viewing rooms or booths shall be
maintained in good repair at all times, with no holes between any two (2) such
rooms such as would allow viewing from one booth into another or such as to
allow physical contact of any kind between the occupants of any two (2) such
booths or rooms.
      7.   Customers, patrons or visitors shall not be allowed to stand idly by
in the vicinity of any such video booths, or from remaining in the common area
of such business, other than the restrooms, who are not actively engaged in
shopping for or reviewing the products available on display for purchaser
viewing. Signs prohibiting loitering shall be posted in prominent places in and
near the video booths.
      8.   The floors, seats, walls and other interior portions of all video
booths shall be maintained clean and free from waste and bodily secretions.
Presence of human excrement, urine, semen or saliva in any such booths shall be
evidence of improper maintenance and inadequate sanitary controls; repeated
instances of such conditions may justify suspension or revocation of the
owner's and operator's license to conduct the sexually oriented establishment.
   L.   All areas of the sexually oriented business shall be illuminated at a
minimum of the following foot-candles, minimally maintained and evenly
distributed at ground level:
 
Area                        Foot-Candles
Bookstores and other retail 20
establishments
                            5 (except during performances, at which
Theaters and cabarets       time lighting shall be at least 1.25 foot-
                            candles)
Arcades                     10
Motels/hotels               20 (in public areas)
 
   M.   Sexually oriented businesses shall employ security guards in order to
maintain the public peace and safety, based upon the following standards:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses featuring live entertainment shall
provide at least one security guard at all times while the business is open. If
the occupancy limit of the premises is greater than thirty five (35) persons,
an additional security guard shall be on duty.
      2.   Security guards for other sexually oriented businesses may be
required if it is determined by the police chief that their presence is
necessary in order to prevent any of the conduct listed in subsection
3-12-15B2 of this chapter from occurring on the premises.
      3.   Security guard(s) shall be charged with preventing violations of law
and enforcing compliance by patrons of the requirements of these regulations.
Security guards shall be uniformed in such a manner so as to be readily
identifiable as a security guard by the public and shall be duly licensed as a
security guard as required by applicable provisions of state law. No security
guard required pursuant to this subsection M shall act as a door person, ticket
seller, ticket taker, admittance person or sole occupant of the manager's
station while acting as a security guard.
   N.   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the owner or owners or
operator or operators of a sexually oriented business from complying with the
requirements of this chapter as it may be amended from time to time, or any
other existing or subsequently enacted city ordinances or regulations.
   O.   The foregoing applicable requirements of this section shall be deemed
conditions of sexually oriented business regulatory permit approvals, and
failure to comply with every such requirement shall be grounds for revocation
of the permit issued pursuant to these regulations. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-19: REGISTER AND PERMIT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES:
Every permittee of a sexually oriented business which provides live
entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified
sexual activities must maintain a register of all persons so performing on the
premises and their permit numbers. Such register shall be available for
inspection during regular business hours by any police officer of the city.
(Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-20: DISPLAY OF PERMIT AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS:
   A.   Every sexually oriented business shall display at all times during
business hours the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for
such sexually oriented business in a conspicuous place so that the same may be
readily seen by all persons entering the sexually oriented business.
   B.   The police chief shall provide each sexually oriented business
performer required to have a permit pursuant to this chapter, with an
identification card containing the name, address, photograph and permit number
of such performer.
   C.   A sexually oriented business performer shall have such card available
for inspection by a police officer of the city at all times during which such
person is employed by and on the premises of the sexually oriented business.
   D.   It shall be the manager's responsibility to verify that performers have
their permits in their possession prior to performing. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-
2000)
3-12-21: EMPLOYMENT OF AND SERVICES RENDERED TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in
charge of any sexually oriented business to employ, or provide any service for
which it requires such permit, to any person who is not at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in
charge of any sexually oriented business to permit to enter, or remain within
the sexually oriented business, any person who is not at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in
charge of any sexually oriented business which operates the business in
conjunction with a license issued by ABC, to permit to enter, or remain within
the sexually oriented business, any person who is not at least twenty one (21)
years of age. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-22: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   It is unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he operates,
permits or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, where that
person operates or permits or causes such business to remain open for business,
or permits or causes any employee to engage in a performance, to solicit a
performance, to make a sale, to solicit a service, between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of any day.
   B.   It is unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if, working as an
employee of a sexually oriented business, said employee engages in a
performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a sale, provides a
service, or solicits a service between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of any day. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-23: TIME LIMIT FOR FILING APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All persons who possess an outstanding business license heretofore issued for
the operation of a sexually oriented business and all persons required by this
chapter to obtain a sexually oriented business performer permit, must apply for
and obtain such a permit within ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof.
Failure to do so and continued operation of a sexually oriented business, or
the continued performances depicting specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities in a sexually oriented business after such time without a
permit shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-24: VIOLATIONS:
In addition, any sexually oriented business shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
   A.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates, allows to be operated or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business outside of the districts
enumerated in section
3-12-3 of this chapter.
   B.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates, allows to be operated or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business within six hundred feet
(600') of:
      1.   Any religious institution;
      2.   Any school;
      3.   A public park or public trail;
      4.   A regularly established boys' or girls' club, or public building
regularly frequented by children.
   C.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates, allows to be operated or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business within six hundred feet
(600') of the boundary of any residential zone or the boundary of a lot devoted
to a conforming residential use.
   D.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates, allows to be operated or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business within six hundred feet
(600') of another sexually oriented business.
   E.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates, causes to be operated,
or permits the operating, establishing or maintaining of, more than one
sexually oriented business within the same building, structure, or portion
thereof, or causes or allows the increase of floor area of any sexually
oriented business in any building, structure or portion thereof containing
another sexually oriented business.
   F.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if a person appearing
in a state of nudity does so in a modeling class operated in compliance with
both of the following criteria:
      1.   That the class is operated either by a proprietary school, licensed
by the state of California; a college, junior college or university supported
entirely or partly by taxation or by a private college or university which
maintains and operates educational programs in which credits are transferable
to a college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation; and
      2.   That the class is operated entirely within a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student is
customarily required to enroll in advance of the class (though late
registrations may be allowable by the institution offering the class); and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-25: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business in
violation of the locational restrictions of this chapter, is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such
violation shall be punishable by a fine and imprisonment, as fixed by the
superior court, and if an injunction must be sought, attorney fees and costs
will be assessed at the discretion of the court against the sexually oriented
business. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-26: INSPECTION:
   A.   The operator shall permit representatives of the police department,
community development department, the county health department and the fire
department to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or at
any time it is open for business.
   B.   It is unlawful and a person who operates a sexually oriented business
or his agent or employee commits a misdemeanor if he refuses to permit such
lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is occupied or at any
time that it is open for business. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-27: CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND ADDITIONAL LEGAL, EQUITABLE AND INJUNCTIVE
RELIEF:
In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the Penal Code, if any
person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or violates any of the criminal
provisions of this chapter, such person, upon conviction of such offense, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation or noncompliance shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense. Further, each day of continued violation or
noncompliance shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent or restrict the city from taking such other lawful action in any
court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary to prevent or remedy a
violation or noncompliance. Such other lawful actions shall include, but shall
not be limited to, an equitable action for injunctive relief or an action at
law for damages. All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall
be cumulative and independently available to the city, and the city shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000; amd. 2007 Code)
3-12-28: IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION:
The city and its designee, the police department and all other departments and
agencies, and all other city officers, agents and employees charged with
enforcement of state and local laws and codes shall be immune from prosecution,
civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon a sexually oriented
business while acting within the scope of authority conferred by this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
3-12-29: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase
in this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid, or ineffective.
Nothing in this chapter is intended to supplant or supersede the rules or
regulations of the department of alcohol beverage control of the state of
California ("ABC") pertaining to licensed premises, rather, the policies, rules
and regulations of this chapter are to be construed as supplemental to those of
ABC for said licensed premises. (Ord. 2000-08, 5-23-2000)
CHAPTER 13
PRIVATE PATROLS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: Permit Required
3-13-3: Suspension And Revocation Of Permit
3-13-4: License Requires Permit
3-13-5: New License After Revocation Of Permit
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
PRIVATE PATRON: Any person carrying on the business of night watchman, night
watch service, private police officer or any other occupation the purpose of
which is to afford additional police or fire protection to the public for hire
or reward; provided, however, that nothing contained in this chapter shall be
deemed or construed to apply to private police protection incident to the
transportation for hire within the city of money, checks and other written
instruments, of persons, or to escorts of funeral processions. (Ord. 437, 5-20-
1969)
3-13-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, either as owner, manager, employee or otherwise, shall manage,
conduct, carry on or assist in the management, conducting or carrying on the
business of private patrol unless under and by authority of a written permit
from the chief of police. Such permits to manage, conduct or carry on any such
occupation shall be issued upon the written application of any person for
himself or on behalf of any corporation or association of persons, which
application shall prescribe the boundaries of the district over which the
applicant desires to operate. Said chief of police must first satisfy himself
that the management, and its employees conducting or carrying on of said
private patrol, will comport with the public welfare, and for this purpose may
consider any facts or evidence bearing on the moral fitness and reputation of
those who will be in charge of said private patrol, its employees and any other
facts or evidence tending to enlighten said chief of police in this respect.
Said permit shall prescribe the boundaries of the district over which the
applicant shall operate. (Ord. 437, 5-20-1969)
3-13-3: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
When the chief of police shall have issued any permit under the terms of this
chapter, the same may be revoked at any time thereafter by said chief of police
when satisfied that the management, or its employees conducting or carrying on
of such private patrol, does not or will not comport with the public welfare
for any reason, or that said private patrol has been conducted in an illegal or
improper manner. Said chief of police may make rules governing the management,
conducting or carrying on of said private patrols and may revoke or suspend
permits issued for the management or carrying on of any such occupation when
the manager or person or persons in charge or its employees thereof violates or
permits any infraction of any such rules, or any law of the state of California
or any provision of this code. Provided, however, that the chief of police
shall give notice of said revocation in writing and the permittee shall be
furnished with a copy of the reasons for such revocation and shall be allowed a
reasonable time for answering the same in writing, and in such answer said
permittee may demand a hearing before the city council. Upon said hearing, the
city council may order the permit restored or may affirm the previous order of
revocation. (Ord. 437, 5-20-1969)
3-13-4: LICENSE REQUIRES PERMIT:
No license shall be issued to any person for the managing, conducting, carrying
on or assisting in the managing, conducting or carrying on of the business of
private patrols until after a permit in writing therefor, as provided for in
this chapter, shall have been issued by the chief of police and a copy thereof
transmitted by the chief of police to the city clerk. (Ord. 437, 5-20-1969)
3-13-5: NEW LICENSE AFTER REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Whenever any permit provided for herein shall have been revoked, notice of such
revocation must be forthwith filed by the chief of police with the city clerk,
and after such notice of revocation is so filed, the chief of police shall not
issue any further license to any person whose permit is so revoked until a new
permit shall have been granted to such person, or unless the city council shall
have ordered the permit restored. (Ord. 437, 5-20-1969)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Mandatory Service
4-1-3: Rates For Collection
4-1-4: Regulations
4-1-5: Residential Organic Waste Generators
4-1-6: Commercial Organic Waste Generators
4-1-7: De Minimis Waivers
4-1-8: Requirements For Hauler And Facility Operators
4-1-9: Commercial Edible Food Generators
4-1-10: Requirements For Food Recovery Organizations And Services
4-1-11: Self-Hauler Requirements
4-1-12: Temporary Services
4-1-13: Inspections And Investigations By City
4-1-14: Enforcement
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain words and phrases used herein are
defined as follows:
BLUE          Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982.2(a)(5) and shall be used for the
CONTAINER:    purpose of storage and collection of Source Separated Recyclable Materials or
              Source Separated Blue Container Organic Waste.
              California’s Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery, which is the
CALRECYCLE:   Department designated with responsibility for developing, implementing, and
              enforcing SB 1383 Regulations on Jurisdictions (and others).
CALIFORNIA    The State of California Code of Regulations. CCR references in this ordinance are
CODE OF       preceded with a number that refers to the relevant Title of the CCR (e.g., “14
REGULATIONS   CCR” refers to Title 14 of CCR).
or CCR:
CITY:         City of Reedley.
              A firm, partnership, proprietorship, joint-stock company, corporation, or
COMMERCIAL    association, whether for-profit or nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility, or
BUSINESS or   a multifamily residential dwelling, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
COMMERCIAL    18982(a)(6). A Multi-Family Residential Dwelling that consists of fewer than five
              (5) units is not a Commercial Business for purposes of implementing this
              ordinance. _
              Includes a Tier One or a Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator as defined in
COMMERCIAL    this section or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(73) and (a)(74).
EDIBLE FOOD   For the purposes of this definition, Food Recovery Organizations and Food
GENERATOR:    Recovery Services are not Commercial Edible Food Generators pursuant to 14 CCR
              Section 18982(a)(7).
COMPLIANCE    A review of records by a Jurisdiction to determine compliance with this
REVIEW:       ordinance.
              Any activity that composts green material, agricultural material, food material,
COMMUNITY     and vegetative food material, alone or in combination, and the total amount of
COMPOSTING:   feedstock and Compost on-site at any one time does not exceed 100 cubic yards and
              750 square feet, as specified in 14 CCR Section 17855(a)(4); or, as otherwise
              defined by 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(8).
              Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 17896.2(a)(4), which stated, as of the
              effective date of this ordinance, that “Compost” means the product resulting from
COMPOST:      the controlled biological decomposition of organic Solid Wastes that are Source
              Separated from the municipal Solid Waste stream, or which are separated at a
              centralized facility.
COMPOSTABLE
PLASTICS or   Plastic materials that meet the ASTM D6400 standard for composability, or as
COMPOSTABLE   otherwise described in 14 CCR Section 18984.1(a)(1)(A) or 18984.2(a)(1)(C).
PLASTIC:
CONTAINER
CONTAMINATION A container, regardless of color, that contains Prohibited Container
or            Contaminants, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55).
CONTAMINATED
CONTAINER:
C&D:          Construction and demolition debris.
              An entity that a Jurisdiction contracts with or otherwise arranges to carry out
DESIGNEE:     any of the Jurisdiction’s responsibilities of this ordinance as authorized in 14
              CCR Section 18981.2. A Designee may be a government entity, a hauler, a private
              entity, or a combination of those entities.
              Food intended for human consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
              18982(a)(18). For the purposes of this ordinance or as otherwise defined in 14
EDIBLE FOOD:  CCR Section 18982(a)(18), “Edible Food” is not Solid Waste if it is recovered and
              not discarded. Nothing in this ordinance or in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
              requires or authorizes the Recovery of Edible Food that does not meet the food
              safety requirements of the California Retail Food Code.
ENFORCEMENT   An action of the Jurisdiction to address non-compliance with this ordinance
ACTION:       including, but not limited to, issuing administrative citations, fines,
              penalties, or using other remedies.
              Hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste, designated waste,
              volatile, household hazardous waste, corrosive, medical waste, infectious,
              regulated radioactive waste, and toxic substances or material that facility
              operator(s), which receive materials from the Jurisdiction and its generators,
              reasonably believe(s) would, as a result of or upon acceptance, transfer,
              processing, or disposal, be a violation of local, State, or Federal law,
              regulation, or ordinance, including: land use restrictions or conditions, waste
EXCLUDED      that cannot be disposed of in Class III landfills or accepted at the facility by
WASTE:        permit conditions, waste that in Jurisdictions, or its Designee’s reasonable
              opinion would present a significant risk to human health or the environment,
              cause a nuisance or otherwise create or expose Jurisdiction, or its Designee, to
              potential liability; but not including de minimis volumes or concentrations of
              waste of a type and amount normally found in Single-Family or Multi-Family Solid
              Waste after implementation of programs for the safe collection, processing,
              recycling, treatment, and disposal of batteries and paint in compliance with
              Sections 41500 and 41802 of the California Public Resources Code.
FOOD          A company that distributes food to entities including, but not limited to,
DISTRIBUTOR:  Supermarkets and Grocery Stores, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982
              (a)(22).
FOOD          Has the same meaning as in Section 113789 of the Health and Safety Code.
FACILITY:
FOOD          Actions to collect and distribute food for human consumption that otherwise would
RECOVERY:     be disposed, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(24).
              An entity that engages in the collection or receipt of Edible Food from
              Commercial Edible Food Generators and distributes that Edible Food to the public
              for Food Recovery either directly or through other entities or as otherwise
              defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(25), including, but not limited to:
              (1)   A food bank as defined in Section 113783 of the Health and Safety Code;
              (2)   A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in Section 113841 of the
FOOD RECOVERY Health and Safety code; and
ORGANIZATION: (3)   A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in Section 113842
              of the Health and Safety Code.
              A Food Recovery Organization is not a Commercial Edible Food Generator for the
              purposes of this ordinance and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
              pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
              If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(25) for Food Recovery Organization
              differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(25) shall
              apply to this ordinance.
              A person or entity that collects and transports Edible Food from a Commercial
              Edible Food Generator to a Food Recovery Organization or other entities for Food
FOOD RECOVERY Recovery, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(26). A Food Recovery
SERVICE:      Service is not a Commercial Edible Food Generator for the purposes of this
              ordinance and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR
              Section 18982(a)(7).
              All food such as, but not limited to, fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, seafood,
FOOD SCRAPS:  shellfish, rice, beans, pasta, bread, cheese, and eggshells. Food Scraps excludes
              fats, oils, and grease when such materials are Source Separated from other Food
              Scraps.
              An entity primarily engaged in providing food services to institutional,
FOOD SERVICE  governmental, Commercial, or industrial locations of others based on contractual
PROVIDER:     arrangements with these types of organizations, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
              Section 18982(a)(27).
FOOD-SOILED   Compostable paper material that has come in contact with food or liquid, such as,
PAPER:        but not limited to, compostable paper plates, paper coffee cups, napkins, pizza
              boxes, and milk cartons.
FOOD WASTE:   Food Scraps and Food-Soiled Paper.
GRAY          Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982.2(a)(28) and shall be used for
CONTAINER:    the purpose of storage and collection of Gray Container Waste.
GRAY          Solid Waste that is collected in a Gray Container that is part of a three-
CONTAINER     container Organic Waste collection service that prohibits the placement of
WASTE:        Organic Waste in the Gray Container as specified in 14 CCR Sections 18984.1(a)
              and (b), or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 17402(a)(6.5).
GREEN         Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982.2(a)(29) and shall be used for
CONTAINER:    the purpose of storage and collection of Source Separated Green Container Organic
              Waste.
              A store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned food; dry goods; fresh
GROCERY       fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish, and poultry; and any area that is not
STORE:        separately owned within the store where the food is prepared and served,
              including a bakery, deli, and meat and seafood departments, or as otherwise
              defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(30).
              The designated itinerary or sequence of stops for each segment of the
HAULER ROUTE: Jurisdiction’s collection service area, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
              18982(a)(31.5).
              A facility that is in compliance with the reporting requirements of 14 CCR
HIGH          Section 18815.5(d) and meets or exceeds an annual average Mixed Waste organic
DIVERSION     content Recovery rate of 50 percent between January 1, 2022 and December 31,
ORGANIC WASTE 2024, and 75 percent after January 1, 2025, as calculated pursuant to 14 CCR
PROCESSING    Section 18815.5(e) for Organic Waste received from the “Mixed waste organic
FACILITY:     collection stream” as defined in 14 CCR Section 17402(a)(11.5); or, as otherwise
              defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(33).
              A site visit where a Jurisdiction reviews records, containers, and an entity’s
INSPECTION:   collection, handling, recycling, or landfill disposal of Organic Waste or Edible
              Food handling to determine if the entity is complying with requirements set forth
              in this ordinance, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(35).
JURISDICTION: City of Reedley.
JURISDICTION  The City Manager, Public Works Director, Code Enforcement Officer, or other
AUTHORITY:    executive in charge or their authorized Designee(s) who is/are partially or
              wholly responsible for enforcing the ordinance.
              An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a flea market, that
              charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency, and serves an
              average of more than 2,000 individuals per day of operation of the event, at a
LARGE EVENT:  location that includes, but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit, or privately
              owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system, or other open space when
              being used for an event. If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(38) differs
              from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(38) shall apply
              to this ordinance.
              A permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an average of more than
              2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility per day of operation of the
              venue facility. For purposes of this ordinance and implementation of 14 CCR,
              Division 7, Chapter 12, a venue facility includes, but is not limited to, a
              public, nonprofit, or privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater, arena,
              hall, amusement park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium, airport,
LARGE VENUE:  racetrack, horse track, performing arts center, fairground, museum, theater, or
              other public attraction facility. For purposes of this ordinance and
              implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common ownership
              or control that includes more than one Large Venue that is contiguous with other
              Large Venues in the site, is a single Large Venue. If the definition in 14 CCR
              Section 18982(a)(39) differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR
              Section 18982(a)(39) shall apply to this ordinance.
LOCAL         A school district, charter school, or county office of education that is not
EDUCATION     subject to the control of city or county regulations related to Solid Waste, or
AGENCY:       as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(40).
MULTI-FAMILY  Of, from, or pertaining to residential premises with five (5) or more dwelling
RESIDENTIAL   units. Multi-Family premises do not include hotels, motels, or other transient
DWELLING or   occupancy facilities, which are considered Commercial Businesses.
MULTI-FAMILY:
MWELO:        The Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO), 23 CCR, Division 2,
              Chapter 2.7.
NON-          Includes but is not limited to paper that is coated in a plastic material that
COMPOSTABLE   will not breakdown in the composting process, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
PAPER:        Section 18982(a)(41).
NON-LOCAL     Entities that are not subject to the Jurisdiction’s enforcement authority, or as
ENTITY:       otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(42):
NON-ORGANIC   Non-putrescible and non-hazardous recyclable wastes including but not limited to
RECYCLABLES:  bottles, cans, metals, plastics, and glass, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
              Section 18982(a)(43).
NOTICE OF     A notice that a violation has occurred that includes a compliance date to avoid
VIOLATION     an action to seek penalties, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
(NOV):        (45) or further explained in 14 CCR Section 18995.4.
              Solid Wastes containing material originated from living organisms and their
              metabolic waste products, including but not limited to food, green material,
ORGANIC       landscape and pruning waste, lumber, wood, Paper Products, Printing and Writing
WASTE:        Paper, manure, biosolids, digestate, and sludges or as otherwise defined in 14
              CCR Section 18982(a)(46). Biosolids and digestate are as defined by 14 CCR
              Section 18982(a).
ORGANIC WASTE A person or entity that is responsible for the initial creation of Organic Waste,
GENERATOR:    or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(48).
PAPER         Include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies, cartons, wrapping,
PRODUCTS:     packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes, tissue, and toweling,
              or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(51).
              Include, but are not limited to, copy, xerographic, watermark, cotton fiber,
PRINTING AND  offset, forms, computer printout paper, white wove envelopes, manila envelopes,
WRITING       book paper, note pads, writing tablets, newsprint, and other uncoated writing
PAPERS:       papers, posters, index cards, calendars, brochures, reports, magazines, and
              publications, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(54).
              (1)   Three-container or three-plus-container collection service (Blue Container,
              Green Container, and Gray Containers): “Prohibited Container Contaminants: means
              the following: (i) discarded materials placed in the Blue Container that are not
              identified as acceptable Source Separated Recyclable Materials for the
PROHIBITED    Jurisdiction’s Blue Container; (ii) discarded materials placed in the Green
CONTAINER     Container that are not identified as acceptable Source Separated Green Container
CONTAMINANTS: Organic Waste for the Jurisdiction’s Green Container; (iii) discarded materials
              placed in the Gray Container that are acceptable Source Separated Recyclable
              Materials and/or Source Separated Green Container Organic Wastes to be placed in
              Jurisdiction’s Green Container and/or Blue Container; and, (iv) Excluded Waste
              placed in any container.
RECOVERED     Products made from California, landfill-diverted recovered Organic Waste
ORGANIC WASTE processed in a permitted or otherwise authorized facility, or as otherwise
PRODUCTS:     defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(60).
RECOVERY:     Any activity or process described in 14 CCR Section 18983.1(b), or as otherwise
              defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(49).
RECYCLED-     Paper Products and Printing and Writing Paper that consists of at least 30
CONTEN T      percent, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
PAPER:.       Section 18982(a)(61)
REGIONAL      Regional agency as defined in Public Resources Code Section 40181.
AGENCY:
REGIONAL OR   A regional or county agency Public Works Director, designated by the Jurisdiction
COUNTY AGENCY with responsibility for enforcing the ordinance in conjunction or consultation
PUBLIC WORKS  with Jurisdiction Public Works Director.
DIRECTOR:
              The use of the internet and/or wireless electronic devices to visualize the
REMOTE        contents of Blue Containers, Green Containers, and Gray Containers for purposes
MONITORING:   of identifying the quantity of materials in containers (level of fill) and/or
              presence of Prohibited Container Contaminants.
              Gas derived from Organic Waste that has been diverted from a California landfill
RENEWABLE     and processed at an in-vessel digestion facility that is permitted or otherwise
GAS:          authorized by 14 CCR to recycle Organic Waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
              Section 18982(a)(62).
              An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food and drinks for on-
RESTAURANT:   premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section
              18982(a)(64).
              A visual Inspection of containers along a Hauler Route for the purpose of
ROUTE REVIEW: determining Container Contamination and may include mechanical Inspection methods
              such as the use of cameras, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
              (65).
              Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the Governor on September 19, 2016, which
              added Sections 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7, and 39730.8 to the Health and Safety
              Code, and added Chapter 13.1 (commencing with Section 42652) to Part 3 of
SB 1383:      Division 30 of the Public Resources Code, establishing methane emissions
              reduction targets in a Statewide effort to reduce emissions of short-lived
              climate pollutants as amended, supplemented, superseded, and replaced from time
              to time.
SB 1383       The Short-Lived Climate Pollutants: Organic Waste Reduction regulations developed
REGULATIONS   by CalRecycle and adopted in 2020 that created 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 and
or SB 1383    amended portions of regulations of 14 CCR and 27 CCR.
REGULATORY:
              A person, who hauls Solid Waste, Organic Waste, or recyclable material he or she
              has generated to another person. Self-hauler also includes a person who back-
SELF-HAULER:  hauls waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(66). Back-haul
              means generating and transporting Organic Waste to a destination owned and
              operated by the generator using the generator’s own employees and equipment, or
              as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(66)(A).
SINGLE-       Of, from, or pertaining to any residential premises with fewer than five (5)
FAMILY:       units.
              Has the same meaning as defined in State Public Resources Code Section 40191,
              which defines Solid Waste as all putrescible and non-putrescible solid,
              semisolid, and liquid wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish,
              ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned vehicles
              and parts thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances, dewatered, treated,
              or chemically fixed sewage sludge which is not hazardous waste, manure, vegetable
              or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, and other discarded solid and semisolid
              wastes, with the exception that Solid Waste does not include any of the following
              wastes:
SOLID WASTE:  (1)   Hazardous waste, as defined in the State Public Resources Code Section
              40141.
              (2)   Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the State Radiation Control Law
              (Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 114960) of Part 9 of Division 104 of the
              State Health and Safety Code).
              (3)   Medical waste regulated pursuant to the State Medical Waste Management Act
              (Part 14 (commencing with Section 117600) of Division 104 of the State Health and
              Safety Code). Untreated medical waste shall not be disposed of in a Solid Waste
              landfill, as defined in State Public Resources Code Section 40195.1. Medical
              waste that has been treated and deemed to be Solid Waste shall be regulated
              pursuant to Division 30 of the State Public Resources Code.
SOLID WASTE   Any container used for the disposal, collection, or storage of garbage, trash, or
CONTAINER:    recyclables, including, but not limited to, roll-off containers and their
              equivalents.
              Materials, including commingled recyclable materials, that have been separated or
              kept separate from the Solid Waste stream, at the point of generation, for the
              purpose of additional sorting or processing those materials for recycling or
              reuse in order to return them to the economic mainstream in the form of raw
              material for new, reused, or reconstituted products, which meet the quality
SOURCE        standards necessary to be used in the marketplace, or as otherwise defined in 14
SEPARATED:    CCR Section 17402.5(b)(4). For the purposes of the ordinance, Source Separated
              shall include separation of materials by the generator, property owner, property
              owner’s employee, property manager, or property manager’s employee into different
              containers for the purpose of collection such that Source Separated materials are
              separated from Gray Container Waste or other Solid Waste for the purposes of
              collection and processing.
SOURCE
SEPARATED     Source Separated Organic Waste that can be placed in a Green Container that is
GREEN         specifically intended for the separate collection of Organic Waste by the
CONTAINER     generator, excluding Source Separated Recyclable Materials, carpets, Non-
ORGANIC       Compostable Paper, and textiles.
WASTE:
SOURCE
SEPARATED     Source Separated Non-Organic Recyclables.
RECYCLABLE
MATERIALS:
STATE:        The State of California.
              A full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales of two million
SUPERMARKET:  dollars ($2,000,000), or more, and which sells a line of dry grocery, canned
              goods, or nonfood items and some perishable items, or as otherwise defined in 14
              CCR Section 18982(a)(71).
              A Commercial Edible Food Generator that is one of the following:
              (1)   Supermarket.
              (2)   Grocery Store with a total facility size equal to or greater than 10,000
TIER ONE      square feet.
COMMERCIAL    (3)   Food Service Provider.
EDIBLE FOOD   (4)   Food Distributor.
GENERATOR:    (5)   Wholesale Food Vendor.
              If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(73) of Tier One Commercial Edible
              Food Generator differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section
              18982(a)(73) shall apply to this ordinance.
              A Commercial Edible Food Generator that is one of the following:
              (1)   Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size equal to or
              greater than 5,000 square feet.
              (2)   Hotel with an on-site Food Facility and 200 or more rooms.
TIER TWO      (3)   Health facility with an on-site Food Facility and 100 or more beds.
COMMERCIAL    (4)   Large Venue.
EDIBLE FOOD   (5)   Large Event.
GENERATOR:    (6)   A State agency with a cafeteria with 250 or more seats or total cafeteria
              facility size equal to or greater than 5,000 square feet.
              (7)   A Local Education Agency facility with an on-site Food Facility.
              If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(74) of Tier Two Commercial Edible
              Food Generator differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section
              18982(a)(74) shall apply to this ordinance.
              A business or establishment engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
WHOLESALE     food, where food (including fruits and vegetables) is received, shipped, stored,
FOOD VENDOR:  prepared for distribution to a retailer, warehouse, distributor, or other
              destination, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 189852(a)(76). (Ord. 2021-
              003, 9-28-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-010, 2-13-2024)
 
4-1-2: MANDATORY SERVICE:
   A.   It shall be mandatory for every occupied property within the city to
receive solid waste disposal service provided by the city or the city’s
authorized contractor.
   B.   The accumulation, collection, removal of solid waste shall be
controlled by the city for the protection of the public health, safety, and
welfare and to contribute toward the diminution of air pollution in the city.
The city council finds that to give practical effect, a comprehensive system
for the periodic collection, removal and disposal of refuse from all premises
in the city is essential and benefits all occupants of premises in the city,
and therefore, all such occupants are made liable for refuse collection
requirements and charges established by the city council for the collection and
disposal of solid waste, and each person occupying, owning, controlling and
maintaining any premises in the city shall pay at least the minimum rate
established for service, regardless of amounts or types of waste generated.
   C.   All solid waste disposal services shall be provided by the city’s
contracted hauler except as follows:
      1.   Solid waste disposal of construction and demolition debris may be
collected and removed from premises within the city by self-haulers authorized
and licensed by the city. Yard waste may be collected and transported to an
authorized recycling facility by landscapers permitted and licensed by the
city.
      2.   The public works department may establish operating rules and
reporting requirements for all haulers authorized by this section. (Ord. 2021-
003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-3: RATES FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Establishment Of Rates: For the service of collecting and disposal of
regular garbage and yard waste as herein referred to, but not including dead
animals or refuse from the construction or demolition or alteration of
buildings, the rates to be charged by the city or any contractor to whom a
contract is awarded by the city for such purpose shall be established by
resolution of the city council.
   B.   Prorating Charges For Disposal Service: The monthly rate shall be
charged against any and all property or premises as specified in this chapter
until the Administrative Services department has been notified by the owner or
occupant to terminate disposal service. Charges for any fractional part of a
month may be prorated using policies adopted by the Administrative Services
department.
   C.   Fees; Due Dates; Billing: All fees provided for in this chapter shall
be due and payable in advance. Bills for the removal of regular garbage and
yard waste shall be rendered at least once a month, and the whole thereof shall
be payable as provided in the laws regulating the collection of utility fees in
the city. When such bills are not paid, they shall become delinquent after the
sixth day of the month in which event the solid waste service provided for by
this chapter may be subject to immediate discontinuance without further notice.
In addition, thereto, the city may sue in the civil courts for the collections
of such fees. (Ord. 94-020, 9-27-1994; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-10-2019; Ord. 21-
003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Scavenging: It shall be unlawful for any person other than the
franchise hauler or other authorized person(s) to remove from any curb, alley,
street, designated pick-up location, or any storage area or container, any
separated salvageable commodity. It shall also be unlawful for any person to
disturb or tamper with any container, bin, or container containing salvageable
material, or the contents thereof, or to remove any such container, bin, or
container from the location where the same was placed by the owner of said
container or bin.
   B.   No person shall burn any solid waste, hazardous waste, or infectious
waste within the City without having obtained a written permit to do so from
the City and the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District. It shall be
unlawful for any person to place live or hot coals or ashes or other burning
matter in any solid waste container set out for collection.
   C.   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to keep,
maintain or handle garbage or garbage containers in such manner as to be
offensive or odoriferous or to be a producer of vermin.
   D.   Special arrangements must be made and permits issued by the county,
State of California, and federal agencies for the disposal of any of the
following items: Ammunition; explosives; industrial waste; chemicals;
infectious, hazardous and radioactive waste; acids; drugs; medicines; human
feces; unwrapped animal feces; and items which are too large for the collection
equipment or which may damage the collection machinery such as large pieces of
metal, machine parts, logs and tree stumps.
   E.   For any type of solid waste collection in the City, it is unlawful for
any person to use the services offered by a person, service, or enterprise that
has not obtained all the required permits or agreements from the City pursuant
to this chapter.
   F.   It is unlawful for any person, contractor, or solid waste enterprise to
place solid waste collection containers on public property without the
appropriate City permit or agreement. For the first violation of this
subsection, the City may impound container(s) of non-permitted persons,
contractors, or solid waste enterprises forty-eight (48) hours after such
container(s) are observed by the City or the City’s agent. For the second
violation of this subsection, the City may impound containers of non-permitted
persons, contractors or solid waste enterprises previously noticed or impounded
twenty-four (24) hours after such container(s) are observed the City or the
City’s agent. Any subsequent violations may be subject to immediate
confiscation. (Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-5: RESIDENTIAL ORGANIC WASTE GENERATORS:
Generators that are persons residing in single-family homes or multi-family
properties of 4 units or less are considered Residential Organic Waste
Generators for the purposes of this chapter. Residential Organic Waste
Generators shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Subscribe to Organic Waste collection services provided through the
City of Reedley’s franchised hauler.
   B.   Generators may additionally manage their Organic Waste by preventing or
reducing their Organic Waste, managing Organic Waste on site, and/or using a
Community Composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c).
   C.   Generator shall place Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste,
including Food Waste, in the Green Container; Source Separated Recyclable
Materials in the Blue Container; and Gray Container Waste in the Gray
Container. Generators shall not place materials designated for the Gray
Container into the Green Container or Blue Container. (Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-
2021)
4-1-6: COMMERCIAL ORGANIC WASTE GENERATORS:
Generators that are Commercial Businesses, including Multi-Family properties of
five (5) units or more, must arrange for the recurring collection and recycling
of solid waste as follows:
   A.   Subscribe to collection services provided by a City franchisee. City
shall have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s containers
and frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each
type of collection service for proper separation of materials and containment
of materials; and, Commercial Businesses shall adjust their service level for
their collection services as requested by the City.
   B.   Participate in Organic Waste, Non-Organic recyclables, and/or other
solid waste collection services provided by franchisee in order to comply with
State law. Participation includes placing designated materials in designated
containers. Commercial businesses not subscribing to such service with a
franchisee, shall make available to the City: (1) acceptable proof that a
recycling program and/or organic waste recycling program is in place; (2) that
program(s) includes all materials that require diversion under State law; and
(3) that the Generator provides the City with the program provider’s name,
contact information, and the volume or weight of recyclable organic and or non-
organic materials collected on a quarterly or annual basis, in the form and
format required by the City.
   C.   Supply and allow access to an adequate number, size, and location of
collection containers with sufficient labels or colors to conform to the
collection programs subscribed to through the franchisee or otherwise.
   D.   Commercial Businesses, excluding Multi-Family dwellings, shall provide
containers for the collection of organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials in all indoor and outdoor areas where disposal containers are
provided for customers, for materials generated by that business. Such
containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a Commercial Business
does not generate any of the materials that would be collected in one type of
container, then the business does not have to provide that particular container
in all areas where disposal containers are provided for customers. Pursuant to
14 CCR Section 18984.9(b), the containers provided by the business shall have
either:
      1.   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided
through the collection service provided by the franchisee; or
      2.   Container labels that include language or graphic images, or both,
indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials prohibited
in that container, or containers with imprinted text or graphic images that
indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials prohibited in the
container. Pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.8, the container labeling
requirements are required on new containers commencing January 1, 2022.
   E.   Commercial Businesses, excluding Multi-Family dwellings, shall, to the
extent practical through education, training, inspection and/or other measures,
prohibit employees from placing materials in a container not designated for
those materials per the franchisee’s collection service.
   F.   Commercial Businesses, excluding Multi-Family dwellings, shall
periodically inspect containers for contamination and inform employees if
containers are contaminated and of the requirements to keep contaminants out of
those containers pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b)(3).
   G.   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers about Organic Waste Recovery requirements and about proper sorting of
discarded materials.
   H.   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14) days of
occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to place
designated materials in designated containers, the location of designated
containers, and the associated rules governing their use at each property.
   I.   Provide or arrange access for City or its agent to their properties
during all inspections required to confirm compliance with the requirements of
this ordinance.
   J.   If a Commercial Business wants to self-haul, it must meet the Self-
Hauler requirements in Section 4-1-11 of this ordinance.
   K.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing Organic Waste on site, or using a Community
Composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c).
   L.   Commercial Businesses that are Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible
Food Generators shall comply with Food Recovery requirements, pursuant to
Section
4-1-9.
   M.   On or after September 15, 2020, a business that generates two (2) cubic
yards or more per week of commercial solid waste, as defined in Public
Resources Code section 42649.1, per week, shall arrange for recycling services
specifically for organic waste.
   N.   Commercial Businesses, including Multi-Family dwellings, that subscribe
to landscaper services shall provide to the City all information required to
determine if these collections satisfy SB 1383 requirements, in the form and
format required by the City.
   O.   Generator shall place Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste,
including Food Waste, in the Green Container; Source Separated Recyclable
Materials in the Blue Container; and Gray Container Waste in the Gray
Container. Generator shall not place materials designated for the Gray
Container into the Green Container or Blue Container. (Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-
2021)
4-1-7: DE MINIMIS WAIVERS:
Waivers for physical de minimis volumes, physical space limitations, and/or
collection frequency may be granted by the City if the following conditions are
met:
   A.   De Minimis Waivers may be granted to a Commercial Business, at the
City’s sole discretion. Such action would waive some or all of the Organic
Waste requirements of this ordinance if the Commercial Business provides
documentation that the business generates below a certain amount of Organic
Waste material as described below. Commercial Businesses requesting a de
minimis waiver shall:
      1.   Submit an application or complete a City-provided form specifying
the services that they are requesting a waiver from.
      2.   Provide documentation that either:
         a.   The Commercial Business’ total Solid Waste Collection service is
two cubic yards or more per week and Organic waste subject to collection in a
Green Container comprises less than 20 gallons per week per applicable
container of the businesses total waste; or,
         b.   The Commercial Business’ total Solid Waste collection service is
less than two cubic yards per week and Organic Waste subject to collection in a
Green or Blue Container comprises less than 10 gallons per week per applicable
container of the business’ total waste.
         c.   Notify City if circumstances change such that Commercial
Business’ Organic Waste exceeds threshold required for waiver, in which case
waiver will be rescinded.
         d.   Provide written verification of eligibility for de minimis waiver
every 5 years if City has approved de minimis waiver.
   B.   Physical Space Waivers may be provided to waive a Commercial Business’
or property owner’s obligations (including Multi-Family dwellings) to comply
with some or all of the recyclable materials and/or Organic Waste collection
service requirements if the City has evidence from its own staff, a hauler,
licensed architect, or licensed engineer demonstrating that the premises lacks
adequate space for the collection containers required for compliance with the
Organic Waste collection requirements of this chapter. A Commercial Business or
property owner may request a physical space waiver through the following
process:
      1.   Submit an application form specifying the type(s) of collection
services for which they are requesting a compliance waiver.
      2.   Provide documentation that the premises lacks adequate space for
Blue Containers and/or Green Containers including documentation from its
hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer.
      3.   Provide written verification to City that it is still eligible for
physical space waiver every five years, if the City has approved the
application for a physical space waiver. (Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-8: REQUIREMENTS FOR HAULERS AND FACILITY OPERATORS:
   A.   Franchised haulers authorized to collect Organic Waste shall comply
with education, equipment, signage, container labeling, container color,
contamination monitoring, reporting, and other requirements contained within
its permit conditions and/or franchise agreement.
   B.   Owners of facilities, operations, and activities that recover Organic
Waste, including, but not limited to, Compost facilities, in-vessel digestion
facilities, and publicly owned treatment works shall, upon City request,
provide information regarding available and potential new or expanded capacity
at their facilities, operations, and activities, including information about
throughput and permitted capacity necessary for planning purposes. Entities
contacted by the City shall respond within 60 days.
   C.   Community Composting operators, upon Jurisdiction request, shall
provide information to the Jurisdiction to support Organic Waste capacity
planning, including, but not limited to, an estimate of the amount of Organic
Waste anticipated to be handled at the Community Composting operation. Entities
contacted by the Jurisdiction shall respond within 60 days. (Ord. 2021-003, 9-
28-2021)
4-1-9: COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATORS:
Requirements for Commercial Edible Food Generators:
   A.   Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generators must comply with the
requirements of this chapter commencing January 1, 2022, and Tier Two
Commercial Edible Food Generators must comply commencing January 1, 2024,
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.3.
   B.   Large Venue or Large Event operators not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require Food Facilities
operating at the Large Venue or Large Event to comply with the requirements of
this Section, commencing January 1, 2024.
   C.   Commercial Edible Food Generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of Edible Food that would
otherwise be disposed.
      2.   Contract with or enter into a written agreement with Food Recovery
Organizations or Food Recovery Services for: (i) the collection of Edible Food
for Food Recovery; or (ii) acceptance of the Edible Food that the Commercial
Edible Food Generator self-hauls to the Food Recovery Organization for Food
Recovery.
      3.   Shall not intentionally spoil Edible Food that is capable of being
recovered by a Food Recovery Organization or a Food Recovery Service.
      4.   Allow Jurisdiction’s designated enforcement entity or designated
third party enforcement entity to access the premises and review records
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.4.
      5.   Keep records that include the following information, or as otherwise
specified in 14 CCR Section 18991.4:
         a.   A list of each Food Recovery Service or organization that
collects or receives its Edible Food pursuant to a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b).
         b.   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under
14 CCR Section 18991.3(b).
         c.   A record of the following information for each of those Food
Recovery Services or Food Recovery Organizations:
            (1)   The name, address and contact information of the Food
Recovery Service or Food Recovery Organization.
            (2)   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to
the Food Recovery Service or Food Recovery Organization.
            (3)   The established frequency that food will be collected or
self-hauled.
            (4)   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or self-hauled to a Food Recovery Service or Food Recovery
Organization for Food Recovery.
      6.   No later than February 1st of each year commencing no later than
calendar year 2022 for Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generators and calendar
year 2024 for Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators, provide an annual
Food Recovery report to the City in the form and format established by the
Public Works Director.
   D.   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to limit or conflict with
the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of
2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and school food donation
guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017 (approved by the Governor of the
State of California on September 25, 2017, which added Article 13 [commencing
with Section 49580] to Chapter 9 of Part 27 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Education Code, and to amend Section 114079 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to food safety, as amended, supplemented, superseded and replaced from
time to time). (Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-10: REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICES:
   A.   Food Recovery Services collecting or receiving Edible Food directly
from Commercial Edible Food Generators, via a contract or written agreement
established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b), shall maintain the following
records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR Section 18991.5(a)(1):
      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each Commercial
Edible Food Generator from which the service collects Edible Food.
      2.   The quantity in pounds of Edible Food collected from each Commercial
Edible Food Generator per month.
      3.   The quantity in pounds of Edible Food transported to each Food
Recovery Organization per month.
      4.   The name, address, and contact information for each Food Recovery
Organization that the Food Recovery Service transports Edible Food to for Food
Recovery.
   B.   Food Recovery Organizations collecting or receiving Edible Food
directly from Commercial Edible Food Generators, via a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b), shall maintain the
following records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR Section 18991.5(a)(2):
      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each Commercial
Edible Food Generator from which the organization receives Edible Food.
      2.   The quantity in pounds of Edible Food received from each Commercial
Edible Food Generator per month.
      3.   The name, address, and contact information for each Food Recovery
Service that the organization receives Edible Food from for Food Recovery.
   C.   Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services that have their
primary address physically located in the Jurisdiction and contract with or
have written agreements with one or more Commercial Edible Food Generators
pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.3(b) shall report to the Jurisdiction it is
located in the total pounds of Edible Food recovered in the previous calendar
year from the Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators they have
established a contract or written agreement with pursuant to 14 CCR Section
18991.3(b) no later than March 1 of the following year.
   D.   Food Recovery Capacity Planning:
      1.   Food Recovery Services and Food Recovery Organizations. In order to
support Edible Food Recovery capacity planning assessments or other studies
conducted by the County or City, Food Recovery Services and Food Recovery
Organizations operating in the Jurisdiction shall provide information and
consultation to the Jurisdiction, upon request, regarding existing, or proposed
new or expanded, Food Recovery capacity that could be accessed by the
Jurisdiction and its Commercial Edible Food Generators. A Food Recovery Service
or Food Recovery Organization contacted by the Jurisdiction shall respond to
such request for information within 60 days unless a shorter timeframe is
otherwise specified by the Jurisdiction. (Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-11: SELF-HAULER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Self-Haulers shall source separate all recyclable materials and Organic
Waste generated on-site from Solid Waste in a manner consistent with 14 CCR
Sections 18984.1 and 18984.2 or shall haul Organic Waste to a High Diversion
Organic Waste Processing Facility as specified in 14 CCR Section 18984.3.
   B.   Self-Haulers shall haul their Source Separated Recyclable Materials to
a facility that recovers those materials; and haul their Source Separated Green
Container Organic Waste to a Solid Waste facility, operation, activity, or
property that processes or recovers Source Separated Organic Waste.
Alternatively, Self-Haulers may haul Organic Waste to a High Diversion Organic
Waste Processing Facility.
   C.   Self-Haulers that are Commercial Businesses (including Multi-Family
Residential Dwellings) shall keep a record of the amount of Organic Waste
delivered to each Solid Waste facility, operation, activity, or property that
processes or recovers Organic Waste; this record shall be subject to Inspection
by the City. The records shall include the following information:
      1.   Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting the
waste.
      2.   The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the
generator to each entity.
      3.   If the material is transported to an entity that does not have
scales on-site or employs scales incapable of weighing the Self-Hauler’s
vehicle in a manner that allows it to determine the weight of materials
received, the Self-Hauler is not required to record the weight of material but
shall keep a record of the entities that received the Organic Waste.
   D.   Self-Haulers that are Commercial Businesses (including Multi-Family
Self-Haulers) shall provide information collected to the City if requested.
   E.   A residential Organic Waste Generator that self-hauls Organic Waste is
not required to record or report information to the City.
   F.   Self-Haulers that are Commercial Businesses (including Multi-Family
Self-Haulers) must apply for an receive all required permits. Contractor self-
haul permit applicants must comply with CALGreen requirements and provide per-
project forms, as required by the Public Works Director, and subsequently
submit all waste disposal and diversion tickets associated with their project
(s) at the time prescribed. Failure to submit both the required form and all
associated weight tickets shall subject the permittee to an administrative
penalty as outlined in Section
4-1-14. (Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-12: TEMPORARY SERVICES:
Beginning April 27, 2021, the City’s franchisee shall have exclusive rights to
provide temporary trash services, including bin and roll-off services within
the City limits at rates approved by the City Council. Temporary Service
Providers, including haulers, and providers of temporary services, including
bins, roll-offs, and any and all temporary trash receptacles may not provide
such services within the City’s limits with the following exceptions:
Temporary service providers that possessed a valid City of Reedley business
license when the City’s franchise agreement was executed (April 27, 2021) shall
have continuation rights to provide temporary roll-off services for a period of
five (5) years from the date of the franchise agreement execution. Service
providers that qualify will be required to follow permitting requirements as
stated in this chapter. At the completion of the five (5) year period, only the
franchisee shall have rights to provide such services within the City’s limits.
   A.   Permits and Agreements:
      1.   No person, contractor, or solid waste enterprise shall charge a fee
or accept any form of compensation to collect any solid waste, organic waste,
recyclables, hazardous waste, or infectious waste within the City limits
without first applying for and receiving all required permits and/or entering
into any agreement(s) required by the City to perform such services. In
addition to the permits and agreements required under this chapter, the
applicant must obtain a business license prior to doing business within the
City, and a separate permit for the setting of containers within the City
right-of-way.
      2.   The City shall develop and implement a procedure for evaluating the
performance of any and all permittees operating under the provisions of this
chapter. Permitted haulers shall submit reports on their hauling activity, as
required by the Public Works Director or designee. These reports shall be
submitted in the format and frequency established by the Public Works Director.
Failure to provide said reports, by their established due date, may result in
the hauler’s permit being revoked by the City as provided in Section 3 of this
Chapter. Failure to meet minimum diversion rates may result in the revocation
of the permit as provided in Section 3 of this Chapter. A franchisee shall have
specific requirements and evaluation of their performance governed by the terms
of the agreement. At the discretion of the Public Works Director or Code
Enforcement Officer, the City reserves the right to utilize other means of
enforcement described within the City Municipal Code.
      3.   Any person, contractor or solid waste enterprise who is issued a
permit or agreement pursuant to this chapter shall comply with all of the
regulations in this chapter including, but not limited to, the source reduction
and recycling provisions.
      4.   Any person, contractor or solid waste enterprise that meets the
qualifications set forth in Section
4-1-12 and desires to provide temporary and non-recurring for-hire hauling must
first obtain a permit from the City to remove or convey any solid waste,
hazardous waste or infectious waste within the City’s limits from any
commercial business or residential unit(s), shall sign and file an application
with the City and pay a permit application fee established by resolution of the
City Council. To the extent permitted by law, the information submitted in the
application shall be kept confidential.
      5.   Each permit application shall be filed with the Public Works
Department and shall include the following information:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant.
         b.   The number and type of vehicles to be used by the applicant.
         c.   Additional information, as established by the Public Works
Director, to assist the City’s administration and oversight authority as
established by state law.
         d.   For hazardous waste and infectious waste, written proof that the
person or solid waste enterprise has obtained all necessary permits from the
county, State of California, and federal agencies for the collection of such
waste and has insurance coverage for the transport and disposal of such waste.
   B.   Issuance or Denial Permits and Agreements.
      1.   When an application has been made to the City for a permit pursuant
to this chapter, it shall be the duty of the Public Works Director to consider
the matter; and he or she shall have the right to grant, condition or deny the
permit request. No permit granted pursuant to this chapter shall limit the
right of the City to grant an exclusive or nonexclusive franchise for solid
waste handling services in the City. A permit issued under this chapter shall
not grant the permittee rights under California Public Resources Code section
49520, where at the time the permit is granted the permittee did not have a
right to continue service under such section.
      2.   Agreements for the provision of recurring services by solid waste
enterprises shall be established and executed at the City’s discretion and for
a term of the City’s choosing.
   C.    Revocation of Permit:
      1.   In the event that any person, contractor or solid waste enterprise
holding a permit to collect solid waste, hazardous waste, or infectious waste
within the City from any commercial business or residential unit(s), violates
any of the conditions of such permit, the provisions of this chapter, or any
other ordinance, statute, or regulation relating to the collection, storage, or
disposal of solid waste, hazardous waste, or infectious waste, or collects such
solid waste in an unlawful, improper, or unsanitary manner, the Public Works
Director may revoke such permit issued to such person, contractor, or solid
waste enterprise as provided by this section.
      2.   The Public Works Director may revoke a permit by issuing a written
order to the permittee and the order shall state the grounds for such
revocation, and that if proof of compliance is not provided to the Public Works
Director within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the written order,
the permit will be revoked forty-five (45) calendar days from the date the
written order was mailed. The order shall be mailed by certified mail to the
permittee. The Public Works Director may adopt regulations to implement the
provisions of this section.
      3.   If a franchisee fails to comply with agreement terms, the provisions
of this chapter, or any other ordinance, statute, or regulation relating to the
collection, storage, or disposal of solid waste, hazardous waste, or infectious
waste, or collects such solid waste in an unlawful, improper, or unsanitary
manner, the Public Works Director may utilize remedies established in the
franchise agreement to cure such violations and defaults in addition to any
other remedy provided by law.
      4.   If a permittee or franchise agreement is revoked, no permit or
franchise may be thereafter granted to such entity to collect solid waste,
hazardous waste, or infectious waste in the City until such time as the
permittee or franchisee can first establish to the City its ability to comply
with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Equipment Requirements:
      1.   Vehicles used by the permittee for solid waste handling services
shall be approved by the Public Works Director or designee and shall be in safe
and operable condition. Vehicles shall be painted with the firm name on each
side at a minimum of three (3) inch-high letters. No materials shall leak,
fall, or be spilled from any such vehicle or bin attached thereto. Vehicles
shall be equipped with shovels and brooms to clean up spillage. Equipment
bodies shall be of metal and watertight. Vehicles must pass City approved
inspections and meet applicable air quality and vehicle emissions standards.
Truck bodies shall be closed when used to transport solid waste, hazardous
waste, or infectious waste contents to places of disposal or separation for
recycling. Vehicles shall be operated in such a manner as to minimize their
exterior noise levels in the City. Vehicles must conform to the California
Vehicle Code and all other applicable laws and are subject to inspection at any
time by the City or the California Highway Patrol or other law enforcement
agencies.
      2.   Containers to be used by industrial and commercial units and
multifamily units not utilizing curbside service shall be provided by the
permittee or franchisee. Containers shall have the name and the phone number of
the permittee or franchisee clearly visible on two (2) sides in letters not
less than three (3) inches in height. Containers shall be of a design and size
to contain all the contents therein in such manner as to promote sanitary and
healthy conditions. The owner of such containers shall maintain them in a safe
and sanitary condition. The director shall have the authority to approve new
containers at any time.
      3.   All permittees and franchisees shall maintain their containers to
present a well-kept appearance and ensure that the container area is left clean
of debris and refuse after pickup or delivery. Users shall be responsible for
the cleanliness of the containers and sanitary conditions of the surrounding
area between services.
   E.   Insurance And Bonds:
      1.   The permittee and franchisee shall at all times keep fully insured,
at his or her own expense, all persons employed by him or her in connection
with the contract or permit workers’ compensation insurance as required by the
State of California, and shall hold the City free and harmless from all
liabilities that may arise by reason of the injuries to any employee of the
permittee or franchisee who is injured while performing any work or labor
necessary to carry out the provisions of a contract or permit. The permittee or
franchisee, during the life of the permit or agreement, shall keep on file with
the City clerk evidence that the permittee is fully and properly insured as
required by state law.
      2.   The permittee and/or franchisee shall agree to in a format approved
by the City attorney and thereafter indemnify the City, its officers, employees
and contractors against, and hold the City, its officers and employees,
harmless from, any claims asserted against the permittee on account of the
negligence of the permittee/franchisee or its employees, by employees of the
permittee/franchisee or by third parties, arising out of personal injuries or
property damage, including hazardous material cleanup costs and penalties,
suffered by any such persons on account of the operations of the permittee
hereunder. The permittee and/or franchisee shall provide and maintain in
effect, bodily injury, property damage and environmental liability insurance
with limits in an amount approved by the City attorney and as set forth in the
permit granted. The permittee and/or franchisee shall have the City, its
officials and employees named as an additional insured under each of the
aforementioned policies, and such policies shall be endorsed to require thirty
(30) days written notice to the City prior to any cancellation thereof. The
permittee and/or franchisee shall furnish to the City certificates evidencing
that the insurance required hereunder is in effect and such certificates shall
be in a form approved by the City’s risk management office.
      3.   Solid waste enterprises operating under an agreement shall comply
with the insurance and bonds requirements as established in their agreements.
(Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-13: INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS BY CITY:
   A.   City representatives and/or its designated entity are authorized to
conduct inspections and investigations, at random or otherwise, of any
collection container, collection vehicle loads, or transfer, processing, or
disposal facility for materials collected from generators, or Source Separated
materials to confirm compliance with this ordinance by Organic Waste
Generators, Commercial Businesses (including Multi-Family Residential
Dwellings), property owners, Commercial Edible Food Generators, haulers, Self-
Haulers, Food Recovery Services, and Food Recovery Organizations, subject to
applicable laws. This Section itself does not allow City staff or the City’s
designated officials to enter the interior of a private residential property
for inspection unless otherwise authorized to do so. For the purposes of
inspecting Commercial Business containers for compliance with this section, the
City may conduct container Inspections for Prohibited Container Contaminants
using Remote Monitoring, and Commercial Businesses shall accommodate and
cooperate with the Remote Monitoring pursuant to this section.
   B.   Regulated entity shall provide or arrange for access during all
Inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors) and shall
cooperate with the City’s employee or its designated entity/Designee during
such Inspections and investigations. Such Inspections and investigations may
include confirmation of proper placement of materials in containers, Edible
Food Recovery activities, records, or any other requirement of this ordinance
described herein. Failure to provide or arrange for: (i) access to an entity’s
premises; (ii) installation and operation of Remote Monitoring equipment; or
(ii) access to records for any Inspection or investigation is a violation of
this ordinance and may result in Civil citations and any of the other penalties
included in this Chapter.
   C.   Any records obtained by the City during its Inspections, Remote
Monitoring, and other reviews shall be subject to the requirements and
applicable disclosure exemptions of the Public Records Act as set forth in
Government Code Section 6250 et seq.
   D.   City representatives, its designated entity, and/or Designee are
authorized to conduct any Inspections, Remote Monitoring, or other
investigations as reasonably necessary to further the goals of this ordinance,
subject to applicable laws.
   E.   City shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an entity
that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 Regulations, including
receipt of anonymous complaints. (Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-2021)
4-1-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute grounds for
issuance of a Notice of Violation and assessment of a fine by the City Public
Works Director, City Code Enforcement Officer, or representative. Enforcement
Actions under this chapter include but are not limited to issuance of a civil
citation and assessment of a fine pursuant to Title 1 Chapter 4 of the Reedley
Municipal Code. Any violation of this chapter may also be enforced pursuant to
any other remedy at law or in equity.
      1.   Responsible Entity for Enforcement:
         a.   Enforcement pursuant to this ordinance may be undertaken by the
City Public Works Director, City Code Enforcement Officer, or a County Agency
Public Official, if so designated.
         b.   City Public Works Director will interpret ordinance; determine
the applicability of waivers, if violation(s) have occurred; implement
Enforcement Actions; and, determine if compliance standards are met.
         c.   City Public Works Director may issue Notices of Violation(s).
   B.   Process for Enforcement.
      1.   City Public Works Director and/or Designee will monitor compliance
with the ordinance randomly and through Compliance Reviews, Route Reviews,
investigation of complaints, and an Inspection program (that may include Remote
Monitoring). Section
4-1-13 establishes City’s right to conduct Inspections and investigations.
      2.   City may issue an official notification to notify regulated entities
of its obligations under the ordinance.
      3.   City may issue a Notice of Violation requiring compliance within 60
days of issuance of the notice.
      4.   Absent compliance by the respondent within the deadline set forth in
the Notice of Violation, City may commence an action to impose penalties, via
an Civil citation and fine as set forth herein.
         a.   Civil Penalty Amounts for Types of Violations. The amount of
civil penalties for each volition a shall be as adopted by resolution of the
City Council that is consistent with the applicable requirements prescribed in
Government Code Sections 53069.4, 25132, and 36900.
   C.   Education Period for Non-Compliance. Beginning January 1, 2022 and
through December 31, 2023, City will conduct Inspections, Remote Monitoring,
Route Reviews or waste evaluations, and Compliance Reviews, depending upon the
type of regulated entity, to determine compliance, and if the City determines
that Organic Waste Generator, Self-Hauler, hauler, Tier One Commercial Edible
Food Generator, Food Recovery Organization, Food Recovery Service, or other
entity is not in compliance, it shall provide educational materials to the
entity describing its obligations under this ordinance and a notice that
compliance is required by January 1, 2022, and that violations may be subject
to administrative civil penalties starting on January 1, 2024.
   D.   Civil Penalties for Non-Compliance. Beginning January 1, 2024, if the
Jurisdiction determines that an Organic Waste Generator, Self-Hauler, hauler,
Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery
Organization, Food Recovery Service, or other entity is not in compliance with
this ordinance, it shall document the noncompliance or violation, issue a
Notice of Violation, and if necessary, take Enforcement Action consistent with
violations of the City of Reedley Municipal Code. At the discretion of the
Public Works Director, the City may also use the other remedies available
within the Reedley Municipal Code.
   E.   Compliance Deadline Extension Considerations. The Jurisdiction may
extend the compliance deadlines set forth in this chapter if it finds that
there are extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the respondent that
make compliance within the deadlines impracticable, including the following:
      1.   Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, and other
emergencies or natural disasters;
      2.   Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government agency
approvals; or,
      3.   Deficiencies in Organic Waste recycling infrastructure or Edible
Food Recovery capacity and the Jurisdiction is under a corrective action plan
with CalRecycle pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18996.2 due to those deficiencies.
   F.   Impounding Solid Waste Containers.
      1.   Solid Waste Containers Subject to Impound. Any solid waste container
within the City that is not provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee
may be impounded in accordance with this section.
      2.   Notice. The Public Works Director, City Code Enforcement Officer, or
representative, shall cause a notice to remove to be posted on the solid waste
container in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The notice to remove
shall specify that the solid waste container must be removed from the premises
within three (3) calendar days from the date the notice is posted on the
container, or it will be removed and stored by the City and the contents may be
disposed of at the expense of the owner of the container. The notice shall
indicate: (a) the date and time that the notice was posted; (b) the name and
telephone number of a person designated by the City to hear any appeal or
challenge to the requirement that the container be removed; (c) that any appeal
of the order for removal must occur within three (3) calendar days of the
posting of the notice; and (d) that failure to claim the removed solid waste
container within forty-five (45) days shall constitute abandonment and subject
the container to disposal (60 days if owner is unknown). Notice shall also be
provided to the owner of the property upon which the solid waste container is
located, or otherwise posted in a conspicuous place on the applicable business
or residence. Notice shall also be mailed, by certified mail, to the owner of
the solid waste container if the owner's mailing address or contact information
is readily available and legible on the solid waste container or otherwise
known to the Public Works Director, City Code Enforcement Officer, or
representative.
      3.   Removal. If the solid waste container is not removed within three
(3) calendar days of the notice to remove, the Public Works Director, City Code
Enforcement Officer, or representative may direct the removal and storage of
the solid waste container and the disposal of its contents. The City may employ
the services of its solid waste franchisee(s) or any other contractor to remove
said container(s). Any person whose duty it is to remove and store solid waste
containers may enter upon private property with the consent of the owner or
other person in charge of the premises, or by authority of a warrant, or
without consent or a warrant if exigent circumstances exist.
      4.   Appeal. The owner of the solid waste container may request a hearing
within five (5) business days of the removal of the solid waste container to
appeal the City's determination that the container is an unauthorized container
subject to removal. The hearing will be conducted pursuant to the requirements
under section 1-12-7. If the appeal is granted, any payments due to City shall
be forgiven and any amounts paid reimbursed.
      5.   Storage. If no appeal is made, and after a solid waste container is
removed and placed in storage, the Public Works Director, City Code Enforcement
Officer, or representative, shall send by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the owner of the solid waste container, a notice to claim the stored container,
if the identity of the owner of the solid waste container is known. The Public
Works Director, City Code Enforcement Officer, or representative, shall make
reasonable efforts to identify the owner of a stored solid waste container. If
the solid waste container is not claimed within forty-five (45) days after
mailing of the notice to the owner, or sixty (60) days after the container is
removed, if the owner is not known, the solid waste container shall be deemed
abandoned property and may be disposed of accordingly.
      6.   Release. No solid waste container shall be released to its owner
unless the owner has paid the City for the actual costs of the removal, storage
and disposal of contents, plus any administrative fees, fines or penalties
established by resolution of the City Council. All amounts due to the City
shall constitute a debt owed to the City by the owner of the solid waste
container.(Ord. 2021-003, 9-28-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-010, 2-13-2024)
 
 
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose And Intent
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Property Nuisance Defined
4-2-4: Weeds, Vegetation And Rubbish
4-2-5: Garbage/Rubbish Containers
4-2-6: Inoperative Or Abandoned Motor Vehicles
4-2-7: Building Code
4-2-8: Responsibility For Property Maintenance
4-2-9: Abatement Procedures
4-2-10: Remedies Of Private Parties
4-2-11: Summary Abatement
4-2-12: Severability
4-2-13:    Cost Recovery
4-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The city council of the city of Reedley does hereby find that it is
necessary to provide for the abatement of conditions which are offensive or
annoying to the senses, detrimental to property values and community
appearance, an obstruction to or interference with the comfortable enjoyment of
adjacent property or premises, or hazardous or injurious to the health, safety,
or welfare of the general public in such ways to constitute a public nuisance;
and, to provide standards to safeguard life, health, and public welfare in
keeping with the character of the city by allowing for the maintenance of
property or premises for each of the following purposes:
      1.   To safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of the people by
maintaining property or premises in good and appropriate condition; and
      2.   To promote a sound and attractive community appearance; and
      3.   To enhance the economic value of the community, and each area in it,
through the regulation of the maintenance of property or premises.
   B.   Accordingly, the city council finds and declares that the intent of
this chapter is to:
      1.   Reduce the threat to health, safety, welfare, appearance, and
economic value due to the decline in property condition(s) by lawfully
delineating the circumstances under which such condition(s) may be considered
illegal and/or abated; and further finds that:
         a.   Abatement of such condition(s) is in the best interest of the
health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city because maximum use
and enjoyment of property or premises in proximity to one another depends upon
maintenance of those properties or premises at or above the minimum standard.
(Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases are defined as
follows:
ABANDONED: In addition to those definitions provided by state codes, local
ordinances, and case law, means and refers to any item which has ceased to be
used for its designed and intended purpose. The following factors, among
others, will be considered in determining whether or not an item has been
abandoned:
   A.   Present operability and functional utility;
   B.   The date of last effective use;
   C. The condition of disrepair or damage;
   D.   The last time an effort was made to repair or rehabilitate the item;
   E.   The status of registration or licensing of the item;
   F.   The age and degree of obsolescence;
   G.   The cost of rehabilitation or repair of the item versus its market
value; and
   H.   The nature of the area and location of the item.
ABATE: To repair, replace, remove, destroy, or otherwise remedy the condition
in question by such means and in such a manner and to such an extent as the
enforcement officer in his/her judgment shall determine is necessary in the
interest of the general health, safety, and welfare of the community.
ABATEMENT COSTS: The actual and reasonable costs incurred by the City to abate
a public nuisance. These costs include all direct and indirect costs to the
City that result from the total abatement action, including, but not limited
to, investigation costs, costs to enforce the Municipal Code and any applicable
Federal, State or County law, clerical and administrative costs to process
paperwork, costs incurred to provide notices and prepare for and conduct
administrative appeal hearings, and costs to conduct actual abatement of the
nuisance. Costs include staff costs, administrative overhead, costs for
equipment, such as cameras and vehicles, staff time to hire a contractor, and
reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the City. Costs also include those
incurred in seeking cost recovery. Abatement costs may be established in the
Master Fee Schedule.
At any administrative hearing, judicial action or special proceeding where the
City elects, at the initiation of that individual action or proceeding, to
recover attorneys’ fees in connection with an abatement action, the prevailing
party shall be awarded attorneys’ fees not to exceed the amount of reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred in the action, hearing or proceeding.
ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE: Any condition, instrument, or machine, which is unsafe,
unprotected, and may prove detrimental to children whether in a building, on
the premises of a building, or on an unoccupied lot. This includes any
abandoned wells, shafts, basements, or excavations; abandoned refrigerators and
motor vehicles; any structurally unsound fences or structures; or, any lumber,
trash, fences, debris, or vegetation which may prove hazardous or dangerous to
inquisitive minors.
DISMANTLED: That from which essential equipment, parts, or contents have been
removed or stripped and the outward appearance verifies the removal.
ENFORCEMENT COSTS: All actual and reasonable costs incurred by the City to
enforce compliance with the Municipal Code and any applicable Federal, State,
County or City public health and safety law that are not included within
abatement costs. These costs include, but are not limited to, actual cost of
the enforcing department services including, but not limited to, costs of
personnel, including costs of worker’s compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, costs of equipment, costs of materials, costs related
to investigations pursuant to the Municipal Code or Federal, State or County
law, costs related to issuing and defending administrative or court citations,
costs incurred investigating and abating violations of the Municipal Code or
Federal, State or County law violations, and reasonable attorneys’ fees.
Enforcement costs include multiple response and similar costs as permitted by
this chapter. Costs also include those incurred in seeking cost recovery.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any person authorized by the city manager to enforce any
violation of this code.
ENFORCING DEPARTMENT: The departments or divisions of the City that directed
and are responsible for the enforcement of the Municipal Code or applicable
Federal, State or County law or the abatement of a public nuisance.
INOPERATIVE: Incapable of functioning or producing activity for mechanical or
other reasons, and as additionally set forth in subsection
4-2-6 I of this chapter.   
LIENHOLDER: Any “person”, as defined in this chapter, who has a recorded
interest in real property, including mortgagee, beneficiary under a deed of
trust, or holder of other recorded liens or claims of interest in real
property.
NUISANCE: Any public nuisance known at common law, or in equity jurisprudence,
as otherwise identified pursuant to this Chapter or any other provision of the
Municipal Code.
OCCUPANT: Any person living, sleeping or having actual possession of a
dwelling.
OWNER: The registered owner of a vehicle, the person(s) to whom property tax is
assessed on real or personal property, as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county, renter(s), tenant(s), lessor(s), and other
occupants residing permanently or temporarily on property.
PERSON: Individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, association,
social club, fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver, or any other
entity.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel, real estate, or land or portion of land,
whether improved or unimproved, occupied or unoccupied, including adjacent
streets, sidewalks, parkways, and parking strips.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including, but not limited to, land, lot, or
parcel of land, or any portion thereof held by any owner, and shall include any
alley, sidewalk, parkway, or unimproved public easement abutting such real
property, lot, or parcel of land.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: A person or entity identified by the Municipal Code or law
as responsible for creating, causing, committing, or maintaining the violation
of the Municipal Code or law and/or responsible for the abatement of a
Municipal Code or law violation, including public nuisance, as defined in this
section.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, built, or planted upon, any edifice or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of
parts joined together in some definite manner, which structure requires
location on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the
ground, including fences, gates, garages, carports, swimming and wading pools,
patios, outdoor areas, paved areas, walks, tennis courts, and similar
recreation areas.
WRECKED: That which has the outward manifestation or appearance of damage to
parts and contents that are essential to operation.
For the purpose of this chapter additional definitions in sections
1-12-2  and
10-2-3  of this code shall apply. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-
006, 6-13-2023)
4-2-3: PROPERTY NUISANCE DEFINED:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, renting, leasing, occupying or
having charge or possession of any real property in the city to maintain such
property in a manner that any of the following conditions are found to exist:
   A.   A condition that substantially detracts from the appearance of the
immediate neighborhood, reduces the property value in the immediate
neighborhood, as an attractive nuisance, is materially detrimental to nearby
properties and improvements, is a visual blight, is offensive to the senses, or
is otherwise dangerous to public health, safety or welfare is considered a
public nuisance.
   B.   A condition that meets one or more of the following criteria and is
considered a nuisance subject to abatement and cost recovery pursuant to title
1, chapter 12, "Administrative Citations", of this code.
   C.   The following conditions are hereby defined as and declared to be a
public nuisance:
      1.   Abandoned Objects: Abandoned, dismantled, wrecked, inoperable,
unlicensed and discarded objects, equipment or appliances such as, but not
limited to: vehicles, boats, water heaters, refrigerators, furniture which is
not designed for outdoor use, household fixtures, machinery, equipment, cans,
or containers standing or stored on property or on sidewalks or streets which
can be viewed from a public street or walkway, alley, or other public property
which items are readily accessible from such places, or which are stored on
private property in violation of any other law or ordinance.
      2.   Abandoned And Partial Buildings: Buildings which are abandoned,
vacant, partially destroyed, or left in an unreasonable state of partial
construction. "An unreasonable state of partial construction" means any
unfinished building or structure where the owner has been given written notice
to complete the building or structure by the city's building official or
designee, but fails to complete construction and obtain final approval from the
city in accordance with applicable laws and regulations within the time period
provided by the building official or designee.
      3.   Unsanitary Accumulations Of Garbage: Any accumulation of filth,
garbage, wastepaper, litter, rubble, rubbish, combustible trash, unsanitary
debris or waste material or decaying animal or vegetable matter upon any public
or private property unless contained in a proper trash receptacle.
      4.   Unsanitary Buildings: Any buildings, structures, or portion thereof
found to be unsanitary.
      5.   Contaminated Materials: Any matter or material which constitutes, or
is contaminated by, animal or human excrement, urine or other biological
fluids.
      6.   Growth Of Mold Or Mildew: Any visible or otherwise demonstrable
growth of mold or mildew in the interior, and/or exterior of any buildings or
facilities.
      7.   Pest Harborage Or Infestation: Any pest harborage or infestation
including, but not limited to, rats, pigeons, skunks, raccoons, opossums,
snakes, cockroaches, fleas, scabies, lice, spiders or other arachnids,
houseflies, wasps or mosquitoes.
      8.   Detrimental Impacts On Neighborhood: Any premises that detrimentally
impacts the surrounding neighborhood because of dilapidation, deterioration, or
decay or is unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used, or is not
secured, or is improperly secured.
      9.   Nuisance Properties: Any other condition of property defined as a
nuisance, public nuisance or private property maintenance (title 10, chapter 16
of this code) by any other section of this code.
      10.   Menace To Public: Any other condition on or use of property which
is in fact a menace to the public peace, health, or safety.
      11.   Violations Of Uniform Code: Any violation of any uniform code or
city amendment thereto.
      12.   Violations Of This Code: Any business or use of property in
violation of this code.
      13.   Building Materials And Household Fixtures And Equipment: Used or
damaged lumber, junk, trash, debris, concrete, scrap metal, salvage materials
and abandoned, broken, discarded or unused furniture, appliances, sinks,
toilets, cabinets, or other household fixtures or equipment: a) stored so as to
be visible at ground level from a public street, alley or from adjoining
property, or b) stored in a manner out of view but in an unsecured area
accessible to minors, or c) stored in a manner as to harbor rodents, insects,
or other vermin.
      14.   Building Residue: Residue from a fire or demolition such as
concrete or brick foundations and flatwork.
      15.   Construction Equipment: Construction equipment or machinery of any
type or description parked or stored on the property when it is readily visible
to the general public, except while excavation, construction or demolition
operations covered by an active building permit are in progress on the subject
property or an adjoining property.
      16.   Deteriorated Buildings: Buildings which have become so deteriorated
as to permit decay, excessive checking, cracking, peeling, chalking, dry rot,
warping, or termite infestation.
      17.   Deteriorated Improvements: Walls, fences, hedges, driveways,
sidewalks, walkways, and similar improvements which have become deteriorated,
hazardous, defective, or unsightly.
      18.   Hazardous Materials: Discarded putrescibles, garbage, rubbish,
refuse, or recyclable items which have not been recycled within thirty (30)
days of being deposited on the property which are determined by an enforcement
officer to constitute a fire hazard or to be detrimental to human life, health,
or safety.
      19.   Encroachment: The encroachment onto public property for which no
encroachment permit has been issued or which is in violation of the provisions
of an encroachment permit or any applicable law.
      20.   Graffiti: Graffiti or other defacing words, letters or drawings
which remain in excess of forty eight (48) hours on the exterior of any
building or fence or other structure that has not been removed or covered with
paint reasonably matching the structure that was defaced.
      21.   Hazardous Liquids And Other Substances: Any property with pooled or
flowing hazardous substances, including oil and similar liquids, which are not
contained on site in approved storage containers and pursuant to all laws. Any
property with excessive accumulations of oil and similar liquids on paved
surfaces, buildings, walls, or fences. Any property where a hazardous substance
is deposited, stored, released, or discharged in violation of any law.
      22.   Hazardous Pools, Ponds, And Excavations: Pools, spas, hot tubs,
ponds, or other artificially confined bodies of water, and excavations,
maintained in a hazardous manner which may affect the health or safety of the
public, including providing a breeding place for mosquitoes, failing to comply
with state and local safety requirements for pools and spas, and failing to
take adequate measures to prevent public access to the area.
      23.   Land Use Entitlements: The failure to comply with any condition
imposed on an entitlement, permit, contract, or environmental document issued
or approved by the city in connection with the property or any improvement
located thereon.
      24.   Storage Of Materials: Lumber (excluding lumber for a construction
project on the property with a valid permit), salvage materials, including, but
not limited to, auto parts, scrap metals, tires, other materials stored on
premises in excess of seventy two (72) hours and visible from a public street,
walkway, alley, or other public property.
      25.   Offensive Odors: Stagnant water, refuse, rubbish, garbage, dead
animal carcasses, offal, animal excrement or other waste materials which emit
odors that are unreasonably offensive to the physical senses of a reasonable
person of normal sensitivity or which may cause or attract rodents, insects, or
other vermin.
      26.   Detrimental Materials: Oil, grease, paint, other petroleum
products, hazardous materials, volatile chemicals, pesticides, herbicides,
fungicides, or waste (solid, liquid, or gaseous) which is determined by an
enforcement officer to constitute a fire or environmental hazard, or to be
detrimental to human life, health, or safety.
      27.   Receptacles Left In Front Yard: Receptacles for discarded materials
and recyclables which are left in the front yard following the day of the
regularly scheduled refuse pick up for the property.
      28.   Safety Hazard: The maintenance of property in a manner that
presents an imminent safety hazard and/or creates a present and immediate
danger to life, property, health or public safety.
      29.   Sewage: The failure to properly connect any inhabited improvements
to a sewage disposal system or sanitary sewer and/or permitting sewage seepage
or discharge upon the ground.
      30.   Signs: Improper existence and maintenance of signs relating to uses
no longer conducted or products no longer sold on the property.
      31.   Bodies Of Water: Swimming pool, pond, spa, other body of water, or
excavation which is abandoned, unattended, unsanitary, empty, which is not
securely fenced, or which is determined by the enforcement officer to be
detrimental to life, health, or safety.
      32.   Sight Triangle: The existence within the thirty foot (30') triangle
of property at the intersection of streets improved for vehicular traffic, of
any tree limb, shrub, hedge, plant or fence exceeding three feet (3') in height
where either traffic signals, stop signs, or yield signs are not installed, or
at any intersections which are determined by the chief transportation official
to contain tree limbs, shrubs, hedges, or plants that obscure and impair the
view of passing motorists or pedestrians so as to create a safety hazard.
      33.   Fire, Panic Or Life Safety Hazards: The existence of any act or
condition that presents a fire, panic, or life safety hazard, or would
contribute to the rapid spread of fire or inhibit mitigation or increase the
chance of release of hazardous material, or would interfere with, hinder or
delay the egress of occupants or response of emergency personnel.
      34.   Outdoor Storage Of Building Material: The storage or keeping of any
used or unused building material, including, but not limited to, lumber,
plumbing materials, wallboard, sheet metal, plaster, brick, cement, concrete
block, roofing materials, cans of paint and similar materials, in a location
out of doors for more than thirty (30) days within a year.
      35.   Vehicles Or Equipment: Construction equipment, buses, limousines,
tow trucks, flatbed trucks, grading equipment, tractors, tractor trailers, any
other commercial vehicle over twenty two feet (22') long or eight feet (8') in
height or ninety inches (90") wide, supplies, materials, or machinery of any
type or description, parked or stored upon any street or property within a
residential zone. "Commercial vehicle", for the purposes of this section, shall
be defined as any motorized or nonmotorized vehicle used or maintained to
transport property or goods for profit, or persons for hire or compensation.
      36.   Visibility Hazards: The maintenance of property in such a manner as
to cause a hazard to the public by obscuring the visibility of any public right
of way, road intersection, pedestrian walkway, street sign, streetlight, or
traffic signal. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
4-2-4: WEEDS, VEGETATION AND RUBBISH:
No person, whether such person is the owner, agent, occupant, or person in
control of any property or premises in the city, shall maintain, permit, or
allow such premises, or adjoining public way, sidewalk, street and/or alley, to
be maintained in a manner that any of the following conditions are found to
exist, which are declared to be a public nuisance. It is the duty of the
property owner to maintain the property and prevent any condition that
constitutes a public nuisance, including, without limitation, destroying or
removing all such prohibited materials:
   A.   Fire Hazard; Fire Hydrant: Weeds, rubbish, refuse, dirt, debris, or any
other matter or material which may become a fire or health hazard, or is within
thirty six inches (36") of a fire hydrant.
   B.   Landscaping: Front and visible side yards without acceptable
landscaping, except for improved surfaces such as walks and driveways.
Acceptable landscaping shall include any ground cover, decorative rock, redwood
bark, lawn and/or other material determined to be acceptable or required by the
community development department, director, or his or her designee, or as
mandated by urgency ordinance due to severe drought conditions. Landscaping
shall be reasonably maintained and/or also be maintained in accordance with any
approved permit, site plan, or landscaping plan.
   C.   Landscape Materials: The keeping, storage, depositing, or accumulation
on the premises of dirt, sand, gravel, concrete, or other similar materials for
an unreasonable period of time or in a manner as to harbor rodents, insects, or
other vermin.
   D.   Other Vegetation: Any other vegetation or materials which, because of
lack of maintenance, create conditions which may become a fire or health
hazard, including weeds which are otherwise subject to abatement by law.
   E.   Overhanging Vegetation: Vegetative growth overhanging a public street,
right of way, or utility fixture by less than fourteen feet (14') in height or
a public sidewalk by less than eight feet (8') in height.
   F.   Street Trees: The existence of any dead, diseased, infested, or dying
tree in any street; or on any private property so near to any street tree as to
constitute a danger to street trees, or streets, or portions thereof, so as to
be a danger to the public safety.
   G.   Trees Or Shrubs Causing Interference: The existence of any tree or
shrub on any private property, in the public right of way, or alleyway, of a
type or species apt to destroy, impair or otherwise interfere with any street
improvements, sidewalks, curbs, approved street trees, gutters, sewers, other
public improvements, including utility mains or services.
   H.   Branches Interfering With Visibility: The existence of any branches or
foliage which interfere with visibility on, or free use of, or access to, or
obstruct public vehicular or pedestrian travel on any portion of any street
improved for vehicular or pedestrian travel, including:
      1.   A sidewalk, or
      2.   Impair public service vehicles from accessing a public street or
alleyway.
   I.   Vegetation Near Chimneys: Dead vegetative growth overhanging a
structure or any tree branch or other vegetative growth which extends within
ten feet (10') of the outlet of a chimney.
   J.   Removal Of Weeds And Grasses: All weeds and grasses shall be removed
from parkways, lots and all private property on or before April 15 of each year
by the owner of the property or abutting parcel upon which the nuisance exists,
or as often as may be deemed necessary during the year by the code enforcement
officer or other city official as designated by the city manager. (Ord. 2016-
003, 8-23-2016)
4-2-5: GARBAGE/RUBBISH CONTAINERS:
   A.   Garbage Containers: The leaving of any garbage, rubbish, recyclable, or
green waste container in the street is prohibited, except during the times
necessary for collection, pursuant to subsection 10-16-4I of this code.
   B.   Private Property: No person in control of any property or premises
within the city, whether such person is the owner, agent, occupant, or tenant,
shall maintain, permit, or allow any refuse matter, garbage, or filth which is
hazardous to public health or safety to exist on such premises. Garbage shall
be placed in approved containers.
   C.   Public Right Of Way: No person shall place, or cause to be placed, upon
any public way, street, or sidewalk, any refuse matter, garbage, or filth which
is hazardous to public health or safety or which obstructs the free passage of
such street or sidewalk for more than one hour at a time unless placed in
approved containers placed upon public right of way during the times necessary
for collection, or except as may be permitted by this code. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-
23-2016)
4-2-6: INOPERATIVE OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES:
The following provisions shall apply only to the removal of inoperative,
wrecked, dismantled or abandoned vehicles, or any part thereof:
   A.   If, after inspection, it is determined that there exists an
inoperative, wrecked, dismantled or abandoned vehicle in violation of this
chapter, the enforcement officer may issue a citation and order removal of the
vehicle or part as a public nuisance, pursuant to the procedures set forth in
title 1, chapter 12, "Administrative Citations", of this code.
   B.   The citation and order shall contain the following:
      1.   Identification of the property upon which the vehicle(s) is/are
located, along with a description of the vehicle(s) or part thereof.
      2.   A statement advising the property owner and the registered and legal
owner of the vehicle of the right to request a hearing within fifteen (15) days
of the mailing of the notice and order. If a request for hearing is not made
within the time provided, the city shall have authority to remove the vehicle
(s) or part. The property owner may appear in person or submit a sworn
statement denying responsibility for the presence of the violation or part, and
explain the reasons for such denial. If the property owner submits that
statement within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the notice and order, the
statement shall be construed as an appeal which does not require the presence
of such property owner.
      3.   Service of the notice and order shall be mailed registered or
certified mail to the owner of the land as shown on the last equalized
assessment rule and to the last registered and legal owner of record unless the
vehicle is in such condition that identification numbers are not available to
determine ownership.
      4.   A notice and order need not be served if both the owner of the
property and the owner of the vehicle or part sign a release authorizing the
removal of the vehicle or part and waiving further interest in the vehicle or
part.
   C.   Once a vehicle is removed, it shall not be reconstructed or made
operable unless it is a vehicle that qualifies either for horseless carriage
license plates or historical vehicle license plates, pursuant to Vehicle Code
section 5004, in which case the vehicle may be reconstructed or made operable.
   D.   If a hearing is held and it is determined that the vehicle was placed
on the property without the consent of the property owner and that he or she
has not subsequently acquiesced to its presence, then the city shall not assess
costs of administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon
which the vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect those costs from
the owner.
   E.   Administration of this chapter shall be by employees of the city,
except that the removal of vehicles or parts thereof from any property may be
by any other duly authorized person.
   F.   Any person authorized to enforce this chapter is also authorized to
enter upon private property in accordance with subsection 4-2-9B of this
chapter, for the purposes specified in this chapter to examine a vehicle or
part thereof, obtain information as to the identity of a vehicle, and remove or
cause the removal of a vehicle or part thereof declared to be a public nuisance
pursuant to this chapter. The city or its authorized representatives shall not
be liable for damage caused to a vehicle or part thereof by removal pursuant to
this chapter.
   G.   Within five (5) days of the removal of such inoperative or abandoned
vehicle or part, the city shall notify the department of motor vehicles of the
state of California identifying the vehicle or part thereof and any evidence of
registration available, including, but not limited to, the registration card,
certificates of ownership, or license plates.
   H.   This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicles within the city of Reedley. It shall
supplement and be an addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes and
ordinances enacted by the city of Reedley, state of California, or any other
legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
   I.   A vehicle is deemed "inoperative" if the vehicle is: 1) mechanically
incapable of being driven; or 2) prohibited from being operated on a public
street or highway pursuant to Vehicle Code sections 4000, 5002, 24002, or
40001, concerning license plates, registration, equipment, safety and related
matters. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
4-2-7: BUILDING CODE:
The "Reedley building code" shall mean the current versions of the California
building, fire, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, and related codes, as well as
the uniform administrative code and uniform code for the abatement of dangerous
buildings, as incorporated by reference in this code with local amendments,
except that the procedures for abatement, conducting appeals, and cost recovery
shall be those set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
4-2-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   The owner, occupant, lessee, or tenant of any property within the city
shall be responsible for the maintenance of property and premises in a manner
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and this code.
   B.   In order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, when the city
manager or his/her duly authorized agents and representatives find and
determine that the severity of the violation warrants immediate action, he/she
may clean up or abate any violation thereof. The cost of such cleanup or
abatement may be recovered by the city using any legal remedies available to
the city. Such cleanup or abatement shall not relieve the person of
responsibility for the abatement costs or other action which may be taken by
the city manager or his/her duly authorized agents and representatives,
including, but not limited to, liability for any violations of this chapter or
any other applicable provisions of state law and local ordinances. (Ord. 2016-
003, 8-23-2016)
4-2-9: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedure To Issue Citations: The abatement provisions in this chapter
shall not be the exclusive means to remedy a public nuisance. Public nuisances
under this chapter may be remedied using the procedures set forth in title 1,
chapter 12, "Administrative Citations", of this code including the issuance of
administrative citations and fines (section
1-12-1 et seq., of this code). These remedies shall be in addition to all other
legal remedies, criminal or civil, which may be pursued by the city to address
any public nuisance.
   B.   Right Of Entry: The enforcement officer may enter any property or
premises at all times to perform any duty imposed upon him/her by this chapter
whenever the enforcement officer has cause to believe a violation of provisions
of this chapter is occurring, provided that:
      1.   The enforcement officer shall present proper credentials, state the
reason for entry, and request entry from the owner or occupant.
      2.   If entry is denied, he/she may seek a court ordered inspection
warrant if cause exists pursuant to the Code Of Civil Procedure section 1822.50
et seq.
      3.   If entry is denied, the enforcement officer shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
      4.   The enforcement officer shall make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner of unoccupied property or premises, inform the owner of the reasons for
entry, and request entry.
      5.   The enforcement officer shall not enter any property or premises in
the absence of permission to enter, unless an inspection warrant has been
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
4-2-10: REMEDIES OF PRIVATE PARTIES:
The provisions of this chapter shall in no way adversely affect the right of
the owner, lessee or occupant of any such lot to recover all costs and expenses
required by this chapter from any person causing such nuisance. (Ord. 2016-003,
8-23-2016)
4-2-11: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the city council from
directing the city attorney to commence a civil or criminal proceeding to abate
a public nuisance under applicable civil or penal code provisions as an
alternative to the proceedings set forth in this chapter, or initiating summary
abatement of any nuisance as follows:
   A.   The city may immediately abate any nuisance or violation of this
chapter that poses a clear and imminent danger to, or requires immediate action
to prevent or mitigate the loss or impairment of life, health, property, or
essential public services. The city may perform this abatement without
providing prior notice or hearing to the owner or occupier of the offending
premises. Such summary abatement may proceed only upon the authorization of the
city manager or his/her designee. The abatement shall include all actions
necessary to secure the premises to prevent further occurrences of the
nuisance.
   B.   The owner and/or occupier of the premises or other responsible party
creating, causing, allowing, permitting, committing, or maintaining the
nuisance shall be subject to any abatement costs, enforcement costs,
administrative fines and penalties imposed or incurred by the city pursuant to
this chapter. In any action or proceeding in which the City elects, at the
initiation of that individual action or proceeding, to recover attorneys’ fees
under this Section, attorneys’ fees will be recovered by the prevailing party.
   C.   Any abatement actions performed by the city pursuant to this Chapter
shall be at the expense of the owner and/or occupier of the premises or other
responsible party creating, causing, allowing, permitting, committing, or
maintaining the nuisance. The city shall recover its expenses pursuant to the
procedures contained in section
4-2-13  of this code, or any other applicable provision of the law.
   D.   As soon as practicable following completion of the abatement, the
community development department director or other designated city official
shall issue a notice of violation and/or notice and order in accordance with
this chapter. Persons receiving such notice shall be entitled to all hearing
rights as provided herein. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-006, 6-13-
2023)
4-2-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this chapter. The council hereby declares that it would have passed
this chapter and adopted this chapter and each section, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
4-2-13: COST RECOVERY:
   A.   Abatement and Enforcement Costs.
      1.   Special assessment and lien or personal obligation. The cost of
abating a public nuisance and/or enforcing the Municipal Code or applicable
Federal, State or County law shall either be a special assessment and lien on
the subject property or the personal obligation of the owner of the subject
property and/or the person responsible for creating, causing, committing or
maintaining the public nuisance or violating the Municipal Code or Federal,
State or County law. If there is more than one responsible party, each
responsible party shall be jointly and severally liable for the costs. Costs
incurred by the City are recoverable even if a public nuisance, Municipal Code,
or other law violation is corrected by the property owner or other responsible
party.
      2.   Applicability. This Section shall govern the procedures used to
recover all abatement and enforcement costs incurred by the City in the
abatement of a public nuisance or Municipal Code violation and/or the
enforcement of the Municipal Code or other law pursuant to the procedures and
authority found in the Municipal Code.
      3.   Cumulative remedies. The remedies provided in this Section shall be
cumulative to any other provided in the Municipal Code or by law.
      4.   Payment plan. Nothing in this Section shall prevent the City at any
time from accepting payment for unpaid costs or penalties in whole or by way of
a payment plan.
   B.   Invoice of Costs.
      1.   Accounting. The enforcing department shall keep an itemized account
of the abatement and/or enforcement costs incurred by the City. Those costs
shall be detailed in a report that includes a description of the abatement and/
or enforcement action taken by the City; a statement as to whether the monies
to be collected are abatement costs, enforcement costs, or penalties; and where
applicable a description of the subject property. Any such report may include
costs or penalties on any number of properties, whether or not contiguous to
each other.
      2.   Applicability. The enforcing department shall invoice the
responsible party for the costs incurred by the City, except that an invoice is
not necessary for administrative citations and other fixed penalties where
notice of the penalty and an opportunity for appeal of the underlying violation
has been provided.
      3.   Invoice. The invoice shall notify the responsible party of the
following:
         a.   A description of the abatement or enforcement action taken by the
City, where applicable a description of the property subject to the abatement
or enforcement, and the total amount of the costs incurred by the City. The
requirements of this subsection may be met by providing the responsible party
with a copy of the report required by subdivision (B)(1) of this Section.
         b.   That should the responsible party fail to pay the costs within
thirty (30) days from the date of service of the invoice the costs may be
collected in any or all of the following ways: by a collection agency as a
personal obligation, by the City Attorney’s Office through judicial action, or
as a special assessment and lien attached to the subject property.
         c.   That the responsible party has the right to administrative review
of the accounting of the costs incurred by the City by filing a written request
for such review with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
invoice, and that a failure to request administrative review will be deemed a
waiver of a right to review of the amount of the costs.
         d.   That before a special assessment is placed on the subject
property, the costs will be confirmed by the City Council and a notice will be
issued at least fifteen (15) days before the Council meeting.
         e.   That the invoice may be recorded as a Notice of Costs or
Penalties in the Fresno County Recorder’s Office.
      4.   Recording. The enforcing department may record the invoice as a
Notice of Costs or Penalties in the County Recorder’s Office. Once payment is
received for the outstanding costs and/or penalties, or any reduction of costs
following administrative review, and no further action will be taken under this
Section, the enforcing department shall record a Notice of Satisfaction.
   C.   Administrative Review of Costs.
      1.   Right to administrative review. A responsible party shall have the
right to administrative review of the accounting of the costs incurred by the
City by filing a written request for such review with the City Clerk within
fifteen (15) days of the date of the invoice. A failure to timely request
administrative review will be deemed a waiver of a right to review of the
amount of the costs.
      2.   Procedures for administrative review. If a request for
administrative review is timely filed, the City Clerk shall deliver a copy of
the accounting report, invoice, and request for administrative review to the
City Manager or his/her designee, which may include the appointment of a
hearing officer, who shall set a date and time to review the accounting report
and invoice with the requesting party. The administrative review shall be
conducted pursuant to the procedures provided in
Chapter 12  of Title 1. The scope of review shall be limited to the amount of
the costs unless there has been no opportunity for a hearing on the underlying
violation.
      3.   Hearing Officer’s decision. The hearing officer may affirm or reduce
the costs if they determine that the costs are not supported by the evidence or
upon a showing that the costs were unnecessary or unreasonable. The hearing
officer will not pass upon the validity of the underlying enforcement action or
the amount of any penalties unless there has been no opportunity for a hearing
of the underlying action. The hearing officer’s decision shall be memorialized
in writing, in accordance with Section
1-12-7 , subdivision (H), of this Code. Following the hearing officer’s
decision, the City Manager may, with the approval of the Finance Director or
his/her designee, approve a payment plan for the costs.
      4.   Time for payment. The requesting party shall have thirty (30) days
from the date of the hearing officer’s decision to pay the costs, unless a
payment plan is approved by the City Manager, in which case the costs shall be
paid in accordance with the payment plan.
      5.   Prior hearing. There is no right to administrative review if the
costs have already been approved by a court of competent jurisdiction. There is
no right to administrative review to confirm costs under this section if they
have been previously upheld in an abatement or other administrative hearing
held under
Chapter 12  of Title 1.
   D.   Recovery of Abatement and Enforcement Costs. Abatement and enforcement
costs unpaid after the required time set forth in this Section may be collected
in the matter set forth in this Section. To collect costs under these
procedures, the City must send an invoice in accordance with subdivision (B) of
this Section. Interest shall accrue at a rate of ten percent (10%) per year on
unpaid costs until paid.
   E.   Personal Obligation. Any costs or penalties subject to collection under
this Section may be recovered as a personal obligation against the responsible
party and may be referred to a collection agency or the City Attorney’s Office
for collection. Upon referral of these costs and obligations, the collection
agency and the City Attorney’s Office may seek collection through any legal
means provided to them, including judicial action. Nothing in this section
shall be affected by or affect the City’s use of any other procedure provided
in this Section or by law to collect unpaid costs and penalties. In a judicial
action to recover abatement costs, the City Attorney’s Office may elect to
recover attorneys’ fees. In any action in which the City Attorney’s Office
elects to recover attorneys’ fees under this section, attorneys’ fees will be
recovered by the prevailing party.
   F.   Special Assessment and Lien.
      1.   Collection. Unpaid penalties, abatement costs, and enforcement costs
that relate to a property related violation may be confirmed by the City
Council as a special assessment and collected with property taxes or as a
judgment lien.
      2.   Notice. Notice of a public meeting to confirm the penalties and/or
costs shall be provided to all responsible parties by the enforcing department
or City Clerk at least fifteen (15) days before the meeting. The notice shall:
         a.   Contain a description of the subject property sufficient to
enable the person(s) served to identify it;
         b.   Shall state that the City intends to collect unpaid costs or
penalties by placing a lien or a special assessment on the subject property;
         c.   Shall specify the day, hour and place where the Council will hear
and pass upon the penalties and/or costs;
         d.   Shall specify that the property may, in some cases, may be sold
after three (3) years by the Tax Collector pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code
Section 3691 for unpaid delinquent assessments or be subject to judicial
foreclosure before the three (3) years; and
         e.   Shall specify that any responsible party may appear at the
Council meeting and present objections to the lien or assessment.
      3.   Confirmation by City Council. During the Council meeting the Council
may adopt a resolution confirming the amount of the penalties and costs, or any
lesser amount, based upon staff reports and any public comments received during
the meeting. The City Council shall take into consideration whether any
responsible party sought administrative review of the costs and shall only
reduce the costs if (I) the responsible party sought administrative review, and
(ii) the decision of the hearing officer is not supported by substantial
evidence in the record. The basis for the code enforcement action will not be
the subject of the Council’s consideration.
Where the costs have already been approved by a court of competent jurisdiction
or the penalties have been previously upheld in an abatement or other
administrative hearing held under
Chapter 12  of Title 1, the Council shall simply confirm the costs or
penalties.
The Council may confirm the costs for more than one property in a single
resolution. If the Council confirms the costs, the procedures set forth in this
section may be utilized.
      4.   Time to Contest Confirmed Special Assessment or Lien. The validity
of any special assessment or lien levied under the provisions of this section
shall not be contested in any action or proceeding unless such action or
proceeding is commenced within thirty (30) days after the special assessment is
confirmed by the City Council.
      5.   Recording. Immediately upon the Council’s confirmation of costs or
penalties, the City Clerk shall record a Notice of Special Assessment and Lien
in the Fresno County Recorder’s Office, which shall constitute a lien on that
property for the amount of the assessment, except that if any real property to
which the lien would attach has been transferred or conveyed to a bona fide
purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide encumbrancer for value has
been created and attaches thereon, prior to the date on which the first
installment of taxes that included the special assessment imposed under this
section would become delinquent, then the lien that would otherwise be imposed
by this section shall not attach to real property and the costs of abatement
and enforcement relating to the property shall be transferred to the unsecured
roll for collection.
      6.   Form of Notice of Special Assessment and Lien. The Notice of Special
Assessment and Lien for recordation shall be in the form substantially as
follows:
         NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AND LIEN
         (Claim of the City of Reedley)
         Under the authority vested by the provisions of Chapter 2, of Title 4,
of the Reedley Municipal Code, the City of Reedley did on or about the ___ day
of __________, 20__, assess [describe penalties, abatement costs, enforcement
costs] on the real property hereinafter described; and the same has not been
paid nor any part thereof and the City of Reedley does hereby claim a lien for
such [penalties, abatement costs, and enforcement costs] to wit: the sum of
_______ dollars, plus legal rate of interest to be accrued from the date of
recording this lien, and any and all administrative costs to file and record
the lien. The same shall be a lien upon the real property until it has been
paid in full and discharged of record. Please note that the property may be
sold after three (3) years by the Fresno County Tax Collector for unpaid
delinquent assessments.
         The real property hereinafter mentioned, upon which a lien is claimed,
is that certain parcel of land in the City of Reedley, County of Fresno, State
of California, more particularly described as follows:
         [description of the real property]
         DATED: this ___ day of __________, 20___
         (Name)
         ____________________ City of Reedley
         (Job Title)
      7.   Collection with taxes. After confirmation and recordation, a copy
may be turned over to the Fresno County Tax Collector. At that point, it will
be the duty of the Tax Collector to add the amounts of the respective
assessments to the next regular tax bills levied against the lots and parcels
of land for municipal purposes. Those amounts shall be collected at the same
time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes are collected and shall
be subject to the same penalties and procedures and sale in the cases of
delinquency as provided for with ordinary municipal taxes.
      8.   Foreclosure. After confirmation and recording, the lien may also be
foreclosed by judicial or other sale in the manner and means provided by law.
The City may recover from the record property owner(s) any costs incurred
regarding a foreclosure action.
      9.   Priority. A special assessment and lien imposed under this section
shall have the priority of a tax lien, unless prohibited by State law, in which
case the special assessment and lien shall have the priority of a judgment
lien.
      10.   Release of lien. Once payment in full is received for the special
assessment and lien, including applicable penalties, administrative fees and
interest charges; or the amount is deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent
administrative or judicial order; or the City has entered into some other
arrangement with the property owner for satisfaction of the assessment; the
enforcing department shall either record a Notice of Satisfaction or provide
the property owner or financial institution with the Notice of Satisfaction so
they can record the Notice with the Fresno County Recorder’s Office.
      11.   Refund. The Council may order a refund of all or part of a tax paid
pursuant to this section if it finds that all or part of the tax has been
erroneously levied. A tax or part thereof shall not be refunded unless a claim
is filed with the City Clerk in accordance with the City’s claim filing
requirements, and in no event later than November 1st after the tax became due
and payable. The claim shall be verified by the person who paid the tax, or
his/her guardian, executor or administrator. (Ord. 2023-006, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 3
SMOKING PROHIBITION
SECTION:
4-3-1: Smoking Prohibited
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Exclusions
4-3-1: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
Smoking is prohibited:
   A.   In all Municipal facilities and outdoor dining areas;
   B.   In all City owned or City operated parks, trails, recreation areas,
playgrounds, aquatic and sports facilities, both enclosed and unenclosed; and
   C.   In all City owned or City operated vehicles. (Ord. 2017-008, 1-9-2018)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used within this chapter, the following definitions apply:
ENCLOSED AREAS: Facilities designed with a solid roof and walls, closable
windows and/or doors on all sides.
MUNICIPAL FACILITIES: Buildings or equipment which are owned, leased, or
operated by the City.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated tobacco, cannabis product or
any plant product intended for inhalation, whether natural or synthetic, in any
manner or in any form. "Smoking" includes the use of an electronic smoking
device that creates an aerosol or vapor, in any manner or in any form, or the
use of any oral smoking device for the purpose of circumventing the prohibition
of smoking.
VEHICLES: Motorized equipment in which driver and passenger compartments have a
roof and glass (either fixed in place or movable) or other solid materials on
all sides. (Ord. 2017-008, 1-9-2018)
4-3-3: EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   A vehicle assigned to a specific employee shall be excluded from the
provisions of subsection 4-3-1C of this chapter so long as there is no
nonsmoking passenger present. Said exclusion shall not apply to vehicles
assigned to the general use of a department nor to those vehicles within the
general car pool system.
   B.   The City Council may approve an exception to the smoking prohibition on
a case by case basis if requested to do so by the applicant of record for a
specific event or activity in a City park.
   C.   The City Manager may institute administrative policies to restrict
smoking in such other City owned or operated areas as may be deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2003-02, 5-27-2003)
CHAPTER 4
WATER WELLS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: State Reporting
4-4-4: Acts Prohibited, Permit Required
4-4-5: Inspections
4-4-6: Expiration Of Permit
4-4-7: Standards
4-4-8: Variances
4-4-9: Permit Revocation Or Suspension
4-4-10: Investigation
4-4-11: Order To Abate Nuisance
4-4-12: Appeal From Denial, Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit And Order Of
Abatement
4-4-13: Abatement By City
4-4-14: Payment Of Costs
4-4-15: Abatement Of Safety Hazard
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the construction, repair and
reconstruction of wells to the end that the groundwater of this county will not
be polluted or contaminated and that water obtained from such wells will be
suitable for the purpose for which used and will not jeopardize the health,
safety or welfare of the people of this city, for the destruction of abandoned
wells, and for the abatement of wells found to be public nuisances to the end
that all such wells will not cause pollution or contamination of ground water
or otherwise jeopardize the health, safety or welfare of the people of this
city. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings provided
in this section:
ABATEMENT: The construction, reconstruction, repair or destruction of a well so
as to eliminate a nuisance caused by a well polluting or contaminating
groundwater.
AGRICULTURAL WELLS: Water wells used to supply water for irrigation or other
agricultural purposes, including so called "stock wells".
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY WELL: A water well used to supply water for domestic
purposes in systems subject to Health and Safety Code sections 116270 et seq.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of water to a degree which creates
a hazard to the public health through spreading poison or through disease.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Fresno County health officer or his authorized
representative.
INDIVIDUAL DOMESTIC WELL: A water well used to supply water for domestic needs
or an individual residence or commercial establishment.
INDUSTRIAL WELLS: Water wells used to supply industry on an individual basis.
ORDER OF ABATEMENT: Both mandatory and prohibitory orders requiring or
prohibiting one or more acts; said term shall also include those orders
effective for a limited as well as an indefinite period of time, and shall
include modifications or restatements of any order.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation or governmental agency.
POLLUTION: An alteration of the quality of water to a degree which unreasonably
affects: a) such waters for beneficial uses; or b) facilities which serve such
beneficial uses. Pollution may include contamination.
WELL OR WATER WELL: Any artificial excavation constructed by any method for the
purpose of extracting water from or injecting water into the underground.
"Well" or "water well" shall not include:
   A.   Oil and gas wells, or geothermal wells constructed under the
jurisdiction of the department of conservation, except those wells converted to
use as water wells; or
   B.   Wells used for the purpose of watering excavations during construction,
or stabilizing hillsides or earth embankments. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-3: STATE REPORTING:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to release any person from
compliance with the provisions of Water Code article 3, chapter 10, division 7.
(Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-4: ACTS PROHIBITED, PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall, within the area of the city, construct, repair,
reconstruct or abandon any well unless a written permit has first been obtained
from the health officer, and the work conforms to the conditions of such permit
and this chapter. Applications for such permits shall be made on the forms
provided for that purpose and in accordance with procedure established by the
county health department.
   B.   Each such application shall be accompanied by a filing fee set by
resolution of the city council. No part of the fee shall be refundable.
   C.   Within ten (10) business days after receipt of the application, the
county health officer shall either grant, conditionally grant or deny the
permit. If the application is not acted upon within said ten (10) day period,
the application shall be deemed granted. A permit shall not be issued if, in
the judgment of the health officer, the well may jeopardize the health, safety
or welfare of the people of the city.
   D.   Construction, reconstruction, repair and destruction of wells shall be
performed by a contractor with a C-57 contracting license, or any equivalent
issued by the department of professional and vocational standards; provided,
however, that a property owner may construct, reconstruct, repair or destruct a
well on his own property, which well serves or will serve said property that is
neither being offered for sale or intended to be so offered. (Ord. 504, 6-5-
1973)
4-4-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application, an inspection of the well location
shall be made by the health officer precedent to issuance of a well permit.
   B.   After work has been completed, the health officer shall be notified by
the person performing the work and the health department shall make a final
inspection of the completed work to determine compliance with the well
standards. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-6: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
Each permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire and become null and
void if the work authorized thereby has not been completed within one year
following the issuance of the permit.
Upon expiration of any permit issued pursuant hereto, no further work may be
done in connection with construction, repair, reconstruction or abandonment of
a well unless and until a new permit for such purpose is secured in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-7: STANDARDS:
Standards for the construction, repair, reconstruction or abandonment of wells
shall be as set forth in chapter II of the department of water resources
bulletin 74-81 and 74-90, "Water Well Standards (1990)", or as subsequently
revised or supplemented, which are hereby incorporated by reference, with the
following modification: the minimum distance between all wells and subsurface
sewage leaching fields or septic tanks shall be one hundred feet (100');
cesspool or seepage pits shall be one hundred fifty feet (150'); and sewer line
shall be fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973; amd. 2007 Code)
4-4-8: VARIANCES:
The health officer shall have the power to allow variances from the standards
referred to in section
4-4-7 of this chapter so as to prevent unnecessary hardship or injustice and at
the same time accomplish the general purpose and intent of the standards. (Ord.
504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-9: PERMIT REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   A permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended by the health
officer as hereinafter provided if he determines that a violation of this
chapter exists, that written notice has been directed to permittee specifying
the violation and that the permittee has failed or neglected to make the
necessary adjustments within thirty (30) days after receiving such notice.
   B.   A permit may be so revoked or suspended by the health officer if he
determines at a hearing for such purpose that the person to whom any permit was
issued pursuant to this chapter has obtained the same by fraud or
misrepresentation, provided that notice of the time and place of such hearing
is given to the permittee at least five (5) days prior thereto.
   C.   The suspension or revocation of any permit shall not be effective until
notice thereof, in writing, is mailed to the permittee, and the time for filing
an appeal to the city council has expired. The notice shall advise the
permittee of his right to appeal to the city council and to stay the suspension
or revocation pending such appeal. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-10: INVESTIGATION:
The health officer may, upon reasonable cause to believe that an abandoned well
or other well is causing a nuisance by polluting or contaminating ground water,
investigate the situation to determine whether such a nuisance does in fact
exist. He shall have the power, when in the performance of his duty and upon
first presenting his credentials and identifying himself as an employee of the
county health department to the person apparently in control of the premises,
if available, to enter upon any such premises between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., to discover or inspect any
thing or condition which appears to indicate such a nuisance. He may examine
such premises, things or conditions, take such samples and make such tests as
needed and take any other steps reasonably necessary for the proper
investigation and determination of whether such a nuisance exists. (Ord. 504,
6-5-1973)
4-4-11: ORDER TO ABATE NUISANCE:
Whenever the health officer determines that an abandoned or other well is
causing a nuisance by polluting or contaminating ground water, he may issue a
written order requiring that the conditions productive of the nuisance be
abated within a period of ten (10) days thereafter and shall forthwith serve
the order upon the person occupying the premises, if any, and if no person
occupies the premises, the order shall be posted upon said premises in a
conspicuous place. In addition, a copy shall be mailed to the owners of the
premises as their names and addresses appear upon the last equalized assessment
roll. The health officer may for good cause extend the time specified in the
order or otherwise modify or rescind the order.
The order of abatement shall advise the possessors and owners of the property
of their right to appeal to the city council and to stay the order of abatement
pending such appeal. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-12: APPEAL FROM DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT AND ORDER OF
ABATEMENT:
Any person whose application for a permit has been denied or whose permit once
issued has been revoked or suspended, or who has been given an order of
abatement may, within ten (10) days following the receipt of the notice of such
denial, suspension or revocation, or of the order of abatement, file an appeal
in writing to the city council. Said appeal shall be accompanied by a filing
fee in the amount set by resolution of the city council and shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is taken. The clerk of the council shall then
proceed to set the matter for hearing, not later than twenty (20) days
thereafter, and such appeal shall stay the effect of any order or action until
the council hears the appeal and issues its order either to affirm, overrule or
modify the action of the health officer. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed
to the appealing party at least five (5) days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 504,
6-5-1973; amd. 2007 Code)
4-4-13: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
In the event that a nuisance is not abated in accordance with an order of
abatement, the health officer may, upon securing the approval of the city
council proceed to abate the nuisance by force account, contract or any other
method deemed most expedient by the city council. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-14: PAYMENT OF COSTS:
The health officer shall prepare and file with the clerk of the city council a
report specifying the work done, the itemized and total cost of the work, a
description of the real property upon which the well is or was located, and the
names and addresses of the record owner, the holder of any mortgage or deed of
trust of record and any other person known to have a legal interest in the
property.
A hearing shall be held on said report and any protests or objections thereto,
and notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the persons with a legal interest
in the property at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
The city council shall determine at the hearing the correct charge to be made
for the work. If such costs are not paid by the owner of said property within
thirty (30) days of the determination by the city council, they shall be
assessed upon the property involved as a special assessment. The special
assessment will then be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
city or county taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties
and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as is provided for
ordinary city or county taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection and
enforcement of city and/or county taxes shall be applicable to such special
assessment. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
4-4-15: ABATEMENT OF SAFETY HAZARD:
This chapter shall not affect the right of the city to abate as a public
nuisance, pursuant to Government Code article 9, chapter 1, part 1, division 1,
title 5 (commencing with section 50230), any abandoned well which presents a
safety hazard. (Ord. 504, 6-5-1973)
CHAPTER 5
SHOPPING CARTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Purpose; Nuisance Declared
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Required Cart Containment System
4-5-4: Exemption
4-5-5: New Construction/New Business
4-5-6: Store Removal Warnings
4-5-7: Permission For Shopping Cart Removal From Business Premises
4-5-8: Shopping Cart Identification Signs
4-5-9: Enforcement And Remedies
4-5-1: PURPOSE; NUISANCE DECLARED:
The City Council finds that abandoned shopping carts on public and private
property create conditions that reduce property values, promote blight and
neighborhood deterioration, and result in a public nuisance. This chapter is
intended to ensure measures are taken by the owners of shopping carts to
prevent the removal of the shopping carts from the owner's premises and to
facilitate the retrieval of abandoned shopping carts in a manner consistent
with California State law. (Ord. 2024-008, 12-17-2024)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply for the purpose of this chapter:
ABANDONED SHOPPING CART: Any shopping cart that has been removed, without the
consent of the owner, from the owner's business premises or parking area of the
commercial establishment, and is now located on either public or private
property.
BUSINESS PREMISES: The interior of a shopping cart owner's commercial
establishment, adjacent walkways, any loading area, and the parking area, as
defined herein. The owner's business premises may include a multi-store
shopping center with shared areas of parking and public access.
CART IDENTIFICATION: A permanent posted sign, sticker, placard, or engraved
surface on a shopping cart which includes certain required information, as
further described in Section
4-5-8.
CART OWNER: The owner or operator of a commercial establishment which provides
shopping carts for use by its customers for the purpose of transporting goods
and belongings of any kind while on the business' premises.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A code enforcement officer, or designee, employed by
the City to enforce the rules, regulations, code, and ordinances of the City of
Reedley.
ON-SITE CART CONTAINMENT PROGRAM: Any one (1) or more of the following
measures:
   A.   Disabling devices on all shopping carts which prevent them from being
removed from the business premises by locking the wheels or otherwise
preventing their movement.
   B.   An on-site security guard or employee of a commercial establishment
whose presence seeks to deter customers from attempting to remove carts from
the business premises.
   C.   Bollards and chains installed around the business premises to prevent
removal, if permitted by the applicable zoning district and zoning regulations,
site plan review, and if approved by the Building Official and Fire Chief.
   D.   Obtaining a financial security deposit from customers prior to using
the shopping cart.
   E.   Any other measure approved by the City Manager, or designee, as a means
to contain carts on the premises.
PARKING AREA: A parking lot or other property owned, controlled, or operated by
a commercial establishment for use by customers for parking automobiles or
other vehicles. In a multi-store or shopping center, this definition shall
include the entire parking area used or controlled by the complex or shopping
center.
QUALIFIED CART RETRIEVAL SERVICE: A third-party commercial service in the
business of retrieving and returning shopping carts, which meets minimum
service standards established by the City Manager, or designee.
SHOPPING CART: A basket which is mounted on wheels, or a similar device,
provided by the operator of a commercial establishment for the use of customers
for the purpose of transporting goods and belongings of any kind. This
definition shall also apply to the words "laundry cart" and "cart", which may
at times be used interchangeably herein. A cart sold by a commercial
establishment to a retail customer for that customer's personal and private use
is not a shopping cart for the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 2024-008, 12-17-
2024)
4-5-3: REQUIRED CART CONTAINMENT SYSTEM:
Every cart owner shall operate and maintain an on-site cart containment program
as defined in Section
4-5-2 F. of this chapter. Such system must be in operation until the business
use is abandoned and/or the use of shopping carts is discontinued. (Ord. 2024-
008, 12-17-2024)
4-5-4: EXEMPTION:
An existing cart owner may be exempted from the on-site cart containment
program requirement if they provide proof of active contract with a qualified
cart retrieval service to the Director of the Community Development Department
and the Chief of Police which demonstrates the qualified cart retrieval service
will do the following:
   A.   Actively locate shopping carts throughout the City of Reedley; and
   B.   Respond to complaints from the public in a manner which results in the
retrieval of shopping carts within twenty-four (24) hours after receiving
complaint(s). (Ord. 2024-008, 12-17-2024)
4-5-5: NEW CONSTRUCTION/NEW BUSINESS:
A new cart owner shall be required to install a physical containment system
when the cart owner establishes a new use. An existing cart owner shall be
required to install a physical containment system when the shopping cart owner
expands the existing use by more than five thousand (5,000) square feet. (Ord.
2024-008, 12-17-2024)
4-5-6: STORE REMOVAL WARNINGS:
Every commercial establishment which provides carts at its business premises
shall prominently post and maintain in the interior of the building, and at all
customer entrances and exits, shopping cart removal warning notices ("warning
notices"). Warning notices shall meet all of the following minimum
specifications:
   A.   Be at least eighteen inches (18") in width and twenty-four inches (24")
in height.
   B.   Use block lettering not less than one-half inch (0.5") in width and two
inches (2") in height.
   C.   Contain a statement which notifies the public that the unauthorized
removal of a shopping cart from the business premises, or possession of a
shopping cart in a location other than on the business premises, is a violation
of State law and City ordinance.
   D.   The statement required by subsection C of this section shall be in
English and Spanish.
   E.   List a local or toll-free telephone number for shopping cart retrieval.
(Ord. 2024-008, 12-17-2024)
4-5-7: PERMISSION FOR SHOPPING CART REMOVAL FROM BUSINESS PREMISES:
No person shall be deemed to be authorized to remove a shopping cart unless
they are in possession of written authorization from the shopping cart owner.
Such written authorization shall be on the respective commercial
establishment's letterhead. This section shall not apply to the possession of a
shopping cart removed from the business premises at the direction of the cart
owner for the purposes of repair or maintenance. (Ord. 2024-008, 12-17-2024)
4-5-8: SHOPPING CART IDENTIFICATION SIGNS:
   A.   Each shopping cart owned or used within the city shall have permanently
affixed to it and easily visible a cart identification sign or engraved surface
which includes all of the following information:
      1.   The name of the cart owner.
      2.   The telephone number of the cart owner and/or commercial
establishment to which the cart belongs.
      3.   A valid phone number for cart retrieval.
      4.   The procedure, if applicable, to be followed to obtain permission to
remove the cart from the business premises.
      5.   Notice to the public that the unauthorized removal of the cart from
the business premises is a violation of State law and City ordinance.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of each cart owner to comply with
subsection A of this section, and to continuously maintain, or cause to be
maintained, the cart identification sign so that all of the required
information is accurate and clearly legible. (Ord. 2024-008, 12-17-2024)
4-5-9: ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES:
A violation of this chapter shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   If an abandoned cart is not retrieved within thirty-six (36) hours
after notice to the cart owner from the City or citizen reporter, or as
otherwise described in subdivision (i) of California Business and Professions
Code section 22437.7, the City may impound the shopping cart. Beginning on the
fourth business day, any shopping cart not claimed by the cart owner within
three (3) business days following date of actual notice of impound shall be
subject to a fee equivalent to the actual costs incurred by the City in
offering the respective impound service.
   B.   Further, a Code Enforcement Officer may issue a citation to a shopping
cart owner in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each occurrence in
excess of three (3) during a given six (6)-month period for failure to retrieve
shopping carts in accordance with this Section
4-5-9. An occurrence includes all shopping carts impounded in accordance with
this Section on a given day.
   C.   The City of Reedley reserves the right to immediately retrieve any
shopping cart that will impede emergency services, or is located within the
public right-of-way and poses a safety hazard to the general public. (Ord.
2024-008, 12-17-2024)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Fraudulent Acts
5-1-2: Gaming
5-1-3: Dancing
5-1-4: Electric Fences
5-1-5: Prohibitions Relating To Prisoners
5-1-6: General Offense
5-1-7: Hypnotists Prohibited
5-1-8: Damage To Property
5-1-9: Junk, Keeping Of Restricted
5-1-10: Obscene Conduct
5-1-11: Playing Ball On Streets
5-1-12: Peace Officers, Assistance To
5-1-13: Windowsills To Be Kept Clear
5-1-14: Loitering About Public Entertainment Establishments
5-1-15: Fortunetelling
5-1-16: Misuse Of Public Flagpoles And Staffs
5-1-17: Alcoholic Beverages In Public
5-1-18: Noise Control
5-1-19: Water Waste
5-1-20: Pseudoephedrine Products Restrictions
5-1-1: FRAUDULENT ACTS:
   A.   Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of Admission Fees: It shall be unlawful
for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of the proper admission
fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other place where admission
fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police officers engaged in
the performance of police duties to any place of public entertainment or
amusement.
   B.   False Representation: It shall be unlawful for any person to represent
himself to be an officer of the city or who shall attempt to impersonate any
such officer or who shall without authority perform any official act therein on
behalf of an officer. (1964 Code)
5-1-2: GAMING:
   A.   Card And Gaming Tables: There will be no card tables or gaming tables
furnished for a fee or rental or free of charge to the public for the purpose
of playing games or cards thereon within the city. Furthermore, there will be
no rooms of a business designated as private or not open to the public where
card tables or gaming tables are furnished for a fee or rental or free of
charge for the purpose of playing games or cards thereon within the city. (Ord.
683, 4-16-1985)
   B.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful for any person either as an owner,
employee or lessee, whether or not for hire, to operate any game played with
dice or any other gambling device, for money, checks, credit or other
representative of value. (1964 Code)
5-1-3: DANCING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person in control of any room,
place or hall situated within the city, to conduct, engage in or permit dancing
in such place, room or hall without a permit so to do from the chief of police.
   A.   The chief of police shall establish rules and regulations concerning
the granting of a dance license.
   B.   Said applicant shall comply with all fire and police regulations of
said city. (Ord. 402, 7-5-1967)
5-1-4: ELECTRIC FENCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence as
a guard to any parking lot or parcel of land. (1964 Code)
5-1-5: PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO PRISONERS:
   A.   Escapes:
      1.   General Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person convicted
of any offense or in lawful custody to escape or attempt to escape from
custody.
      2.   Aid In Escape: It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist
any person to escape from lawful confinement or to assist any person to escape
from the custody of any peace officer.
   B.   Furnishing Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish or
attempt to furnish or take into jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any
prisoner therein confined, or in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool,
intoxicating liquor, drug or other article without the consent of the officer
in charge. (1964 Code)
5-1-6: GENERAL OFFENSE:
   A.   General Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any
act or fail to perform any requirement which is prohibited or required by state
law, insofar as such laws are applicable to municipal governments.
   B.   Aid To An Offense: It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or
manner, to aid, abet, counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the
commission of any of the acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the
commission of such offense hereby defined. (1964 Code)
5-1-7: HYPNOTISTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to practice hypnotism or for any person to
be a subject for such hypnotist, provided that this shall not apply to
hypnotism as used in the treatment of patients by an accredited doctor of
medicine or doctor of dentistry, nor shall it prohibit the teaching of
hypnotism in any state accredited educational institution which maintains an
academic standard of the college level. (1964 Code)
5-1-8: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Injurious Material On Thoroughfares: It shall be unlawful for any
person to deposit, place or allow to remain in or upon any public thoroughfare
any material or substance injurious to persons or property.
   B.   Lug Wheels Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels
injurious to pavement to be permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the
operator of such vehicle shall first plank such streets.
   C.   Water Flowing Upon Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow any water to flow into or upon any public thoroughfare in such a manner
as to create a nuisance or hazard. (1964 Code)
5-1-9: JUNK, KEEPING OF RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to
any school house, church, public park, public ground, business building or
residence without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage of
the same. (1964 Code)
5-1-10: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene conduct, or
to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words in any public place or
any other place where other persons are present, or indecently to exhibit any
animal. (1964 Code)
5-1-11: PLAYING BALL ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and fro
upon any public thoroughfare in the city. (1964 Code)
5-1-12: POLICE OFFICERS, ASSISTANCE TO:
It shall be unlawful for any citizen over the age of eighteen (18) years to
refuse or neglect to render assistance to any police officer when called upon
for such assistance or aid in the suppression of riot or other unlawful
assemblage or in the arrest of any person who has committed an offense. (1964
Code)
5-1-13: WINDOWSILLS TO BE KEPT CLEAR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill, porch
or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any
sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the
sidewalk in front of such building, unless such article be securely fastened or
protected by screens. (1964 Code)
5-1-14: LOITERING ABOUT PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
No person shall loiter between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M., about the premises where any public entertainment is
held when such person is not actively participating in the entertainment or is
not an invited spectator thereof. (Ord. 398, 2-21-1967)
5-1-15: FORTUNETELLING:
Any person who shall engage in or carry on the business, trade, profession or
calling of a soothsayer, astrologer, palmist, seer, mind reader, fortuneteller,
phrenologist, clairvoyant or any other trade or profession pertaining to the
telling of fortunes, for compensation or hire, or otherwise, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 403, 7-5-1967)
5-1-16: MISUSE OF PUBLIC FLAGPOLES AND STAFFS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to raise or display
any flag, banner, standard, device, emblem or other article except the flag of
the United States of America or the official bear flag of the state of
California upon or from any flagpole or staff designed and intended for the
display of the flag of the United States of America or the official bear flag
of the state of California and located upon any public grounds or within any
public buildings belonging to or in the possession of the United States of
America, the state of California, the county of Fresno, city of Reedley or any
public district or agency.
   B.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to those
ceremonial occasions when the flag or other colors of a friendly foreign power,
the United Nations, any other state of the United States, or the official flag
or colors of any military organization of the United States or the state of
California, are displayed with the authorization of the public agency owning or
in possession of the flagpole or staff involved and in strict accordance with
the laws or regulations of this state, the United States of America or any
department or agency thereof relating thereto. (Ord. 464, 4-6-1971)
5-1-17: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC:
Except as provided in section
7-5-12 of this code, no person shall drink any beer, wine or other intoxicating
beverage on any street, sidewalk, alley, highway or playground. No organization
shall sponsor or hold an event, gathering or public function which permits the
consumption of alcoholic beverages in violation of this section. A community
organization may apply to the city council for permission to sponsor or hold an
event, gathering or function involving the consumption of alcoholic beverages
otherwise prohibited by this section. The city council and chief of police may
impose conditions to protect the public health and safety. Any organization
requesting an approval under this section must present written evidence that
the organization has obtained from the internal revenue service an exemption
determination under internal revenue code section 501(c). This section shall
not be deemed to make punishable any act or acts which are prohibited by any
law of the state. (Ord. 95-003, 2-28-1995)
5-1-18: NOISE CONTROL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, allow or cause to be
made or emanate any excessively, unnecessarily, unnaturally or unusually loud
noise or sound from any radio, phonograph, disc player, tape deck, stereo,
television or other mechanical, electrical or electronic sound amplification
device or instrument which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, quiet, health, peace or safety of other persons within the city; such
act or acts hereby being declared a public nuisance. In interpreting and
applying this section, the following shall apply:
   A.   Emanating noise or sound shall be defined for these purposes as
"excessively", "unnecessarily", "unnaturally" or "unusually loud" when it is
plainly audible to a person of normal hearing sensitivity at a distance of
twenty five feet (25') from the source of such noise or sound. Proof of same
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   B.   Prima facie evidence that such noise or sound annoys, disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, repose, quiet, health, peace or safety of other
persons is shown by proof of subsections A and E of this section, or a
complaint by a person or persons regarding such noise or sound.
   C.   A person of normal hearing sensitivity for these purposes is a person
who has a hearing threshold level of between zero (0) decibels and twenty five
(25) decibels HL averaged over the frequencies five hundred (500), one thousand
(1,000) and two thousand (2,000) hertz.
   D.   The distance from the source of such noise or sound shall be measured
from the actual source itself, except where the source is located on private
property in which case the distance shall be measured from the property line.
   E.   Alternative prima facie evidence that such noise or sound is
excessively, unnecessarily, unnaturally or unusually loud is shown by a sound
level exceeding the ambient sound level by more than five (5) decibels measured
at the property line or, in the case of common wall construction of
condominiums, apartments or business facilities, measured within the adjoining
occupied unit.
   F.   Nothing in this section prohibits or declares unlawful or a nuisance:
      1.   The operation of warning or amplification devices by emergency, fire
or law enforcement vehicles or personnel;
      2.   Lawful use of vehicle horns or backup warning devices;
      3.   Private or public warning or alarm equipment or systems;
      4.   The conduct of previously authorized and otherwise lawful public
activity such as parades, speeches, lectures, ceremonies, entertainment,
sports, music or recreation events; or
      5.   The usual and customary operation of bells, gongs, buzzers or
similar mechanical, electrical or electronic sound amplification devices to
mark time or call to attendance for an otherwise lawful use or purpose. (Ord.
723, 6-20-1989)
5-1-19: WATER WASTE:
The following uses of water are defined as a "waste of water" and shall be
unlawful except as otherwise authorized:
   A.   The use of water which allows substantial amounts of water to run off
to a gutter or ditch. Every water user is deemed to have his water distribution
lines and facilities under his control at all times and to know the manner and
extent of his water use and excess runoff.
   B.   The excessive use, loss or escape of water through breaks, leaks or
malfunctions in the water user's plumbing or distribution facilities for any
period of time after such escape of water should reasonably have been
discovered and corrected. It shall be presumed that a period of forty eight
(48) hours after discovery is a reasonable time within which to correct such
leak or break.
   C.   The washing of building exteriors, sidewalks, driveways, parking areas,
tennis courts, patios or other paved areas without the use of a positive
shutoff nozzle on the hose, except where necessary to dispose of liquids or
substances that may endanger the public health and safety.
   D.   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes and
other types of mobile equipment without the use of a positive shutoff nozzle on
the hose, except when conducting on the immediate premises of a commercial car
wash. (Ord. 749, 5-14-1991)
5-1-20: PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCTS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The city council finds that the use of methamphetamine is a
national health crisis that affects the health and welfare of the citizens of
the city, and that the local production of methamphetamine, a key component of
which is pseudoephedrine, is of staggering proportions. This section places
limits on the display of medications containing pseudoephedrine in an attempt
to limit a methamphetamine manufacturer's ability to obtain pseudoephedrine for
the illegal production of methamphetamine.
   B.   Limitation Of Sales And Display: It shall be unlawful for any person
doing business within the city to store, stock, keep or display for sale or
transfer any product containing pseudoephedrine in an area other than a place
that is locked and secure or is otherwise made unavailable to the public and
which is accessible only to employees of such businesses. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-14-
2006)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Curfew For Minors
5-2-2: Graffiti Implements
5-2-3: Parental Responsibility
5-2-1: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   Nighttime Curfew For Minors:
      1.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action, the term "emergency" including, but not
being limited to, a fire, natural disaster, automobile accident or other
situation requiring immediate attention to prevent serious bodily injury or
loss of life.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Means, but is not being limited to, injury that
creates a substantial risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent
disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily
member or organ.
      2.   Hours: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds,
public places and public buildings, or vacant lots between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the day immediately
following; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection do not
apply in the following circumstances:
         a.   When the person is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other
adult person authorized by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of
the person; or
         b.   When the person is returning directly home from a meeting,
entertainment, recreational activity or dance; or
         c.   When the person is going directly to or returning directly from
work or engaged in such lawful work under the supervision of an adult employer,
without any detour or stop; or
         d.   When the person is on an errand at the direction of the minor's
parent or guardian, or the responsible adult, without any detour or stop; or
         e.   When the person is traveling in a vehicle lawfully engaged in
interstate travel; or
         f.   When the person is involved in an emergency; or
         g.   When the person is on the sidewalk of the person's residence; or
         h.   When the person is peaceably exercising first amendment rights
protected by the United States constitution; or
         i.   When the person is emancipated pursuant to law.
      3.   Violation: Any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years found in
violation of this section shall immediately be apprehended and taken to the
proper detention place or parental pick up station for minors and there
detained until the arrival of the parent, guardian, or proper person to care
for said minor. (Ord. 98-01, 2-10-1998)
   B.   Daytime Curfew For Minors:
      1.   Hours: It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen
(18) years who is subject to compulsory education or to compulsory continuing
education, to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or aimlessly drive or ride about in
or upon any public street, avenue, highway, road, curb area, alley, park,
playground or other public ground, public place or public building, place of
amusement or eating place, vacant lot or abandoned or vacant building between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M. of the
same day on days when the minor's school is in session. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply when:
         a.   The minor is accompanied by his parent, legal guardian or other
adult person having the legal care or custody of the minor, or by his spouse,
eighteen (18) years of age or older; or
         b.   The minor is upon an errand directed by his parent, legal
guardian or other adult person having the legal care or custody of the minor,
or by his spouse, eighteen (18) years of age or older; or
         c.   The minor has in his possession a written excuse from his parent,
legal guardian or other adult person having the legal care or custody of the
minor or from his spouse eighteen (18) years of age or older; or
         d.   The minor has written permission to leave campus and has in his
possession a valid, school issued off campus permit; or
         e.   The minor is going directly to or returning directly from a place
where the minor is gainfully employed, to or from the place where the minor has
a medical appointment or to or from the place of a public meeting, public
entertainment such as a movie, play, sporting event, dance or school activity,
provided that such meeting, event or activity is a school approved activity for
the minor or is otherwise supervised by school personnel of the minor's school;
or
         f.   The minor is receiving instruction by a qualified tutor pursuant
to Education Code section 48224, or is otherwise exempt from attendance at a
public or private full time day school as set forth in the Education Code; or
         g.   The presence of such minor in said place or places is connected
with, or required with respect to, a business, trade, profession or occupation
in which the minor is lawfully engaged.
      2.   Minor Curfew Or Wilful Misconduct; Cost Recovery:
         a.   Determination By Court: When a court determines that a minor
under eighteen (18) years of age is subject to civil or criminal liability
based on violation of the daytime curfew provided for in subsection C of this
section, it may impose a judgment of civil liability on the parent or legal
guardian of the minor rendering the parent or legal guardian jointly and
severally liable for the cost of providing law enforcement personnel to
supervise the minor during his detention, over and above the cost of services
normally provided by the city law enforcement agency.
         b.   Determination By Chief Of Police: When the chief of police or his
designee determines that the city law enforcement agency has incurred costs
over and above the cost of services normally provided by the agency in
providing law enforcement personnel to supervise a minor during his detention
for violation of the daytime curfew imposed by subsection C of this section,
and when it has been determined by a court that the minor was civilly or
criminally liable for such misconduct, the parent or legal guardian of the
minor may be assessed and billed for such additional costs.
         c.   Appeal: Any billing sent pursuant to this subsection B2 shall
inform the billed party of the right to appeal said billing. Any person
receiving a bill for law enforcement services pursuant to this subsection may,
within fifteen (15) days after the billing date, file a written appeal from the
imposition of said charges. Upon the filing of a request for an appeal, payment
of the bill for the law enforcement services shall be suspended until notice of
the decision of the hearing officer is issued. Any such appeal from said
billing shall be heard by the city manager or his designee, as the hearing
officer and within ten (10) days after the hearing, the hearing officer shall
give to the appellant written notice of the decision. If the appeal is denied
in part or in full, all amounts due to the city shall be paid within thirty
(30) days after the notice of the decision of the hearing officer.
      3.   Parental Responsibility: Every parent, guardian or other person
having legal care, custody or control of any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years who intentionally causes or encourages such person in, or with
criminal negligence fails to restrain such person from, violating any provision
of this daytime curfew is guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 97-01, 2-25-1997)
5-2-2: GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS:
This section shall be known as the GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS ORDINANCE.
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows:
    AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container, regardless of the material
from which it is made, which is adapted or made for the purpose of spraying
paint or other substance capable of defacing property.
   FELT TIP MARKER: Any indelible marker or similar implement with a tip which,
at its broadest width, is greater than one-eighth inch (1/8"), containing an
ink that is not water soluble.
   GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, work, figure or design that is
marked, etched, scratched, drawn or painted on any surface.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a felt tip marker or a paint
stick.
   MINOR: A person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   PAINT STICK: Any device containing a solid form of paint, chalk, epoxy or
other similar substance capable of being applied to a surface by pressure, and
upon application, leaving a mark at least one-eighth inch (1/8") in width,
visible from a distance of twenty feet (20'), and not water soluble.
   B.   Sale, Exchange Or Transfer Of Spray Paint Can, Felt Tip Marker Or Paint
Stick To Minors: It is unlawful for any person to sell, exchange, give, loan or
otherwise transfer or cause or permit to be sold, exchanged, given, loaned or
otherwise transferred any aerosol paint container, felt tip marker or paint
stick to any minor.
   C.   Possession Of Aerosol Paint Container, Felt Tip Marker Or Paint Stick
By Minors Prohibited: It is unlawful for any minor to have in his possession
any aerosol paint container, felt tip marker or paint stick while upon any
public highway, street, alleyway, park, playground, swimming pool or other
public place or property, or while upon any private property without the
owner's consent to his personal presence and possession of such aerosol paint
container, felt tip marker or paint stick, whether such minor is or is not in
any automobile, vehicle or other conveyance.
   D.   Display Of Aerosol Paint Container, Felt Tip Marker Or Paint Stick By
Licensed Business Persons: It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to do
business in the city to display any aerosol paint container, felt tip marker or
paint stick for sale from any self-service or self-help counter. Any aerosol
paint container, felt tip marker or paint stick may only be displayed in an
enclosed counter to which only employees of such business have access.
   E.   Penalties For Violation: In addition to any other penalties generally
provided for a violation of a this section, a violator may be required to pay
for the costs of repairing any damages to property caused by the violator's
unlawful conduct. (Ord. 94-011, 5-10-1994)
5-2-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Except as otherwise provided herein:
   A.   Every parent, guardian or other person having the legal care, custody
or control of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years who permits such
person to violate the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or person having a minor
in his charge, after receiving notice of the apprehension, arrest or detention
of said minor, to fail or neglect to go in person or send some suitable person
after said minor so detained.
   C.   Every parent, guardian or other person having the legal care, custody
or control of any person under the age of eighteen (18) who violates section
5-2-1 of this chapter shall be liable for the expense of a police response and
the cost of transporting the minor to a parental pick up station. The terms
"expense of a police response" and "parental pick up station" shall have the
meanings contained in section
5-8-2 of this title. (Ord. 780, 2-23-1993)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Poundmaster
5-3-3: Impoundment Of Animals
5-3-4: Trespassing; Seizure
5-3-5: Record Of Impoundment
5-3-6: Duties Of Animal Control Officer
5-3-7: Authority Of Poundmaster And Animal Control Officer
5-3-8: Animal Care
5-3-9: Limits On Number Of Dogs And Cats
5-3-10: Excessive Noise; Nuisance
5-3-11: Animals At Large Prohibited
5-3-12: Animal Bites
5-3-13: Animals Bitten By Other Animals
5-3-14: Bringing Animal Into City
5-3-15: Dogs; License Required
5-3-16: Issuance Of License And Tag
5-3-17: Rabies Vaccinations Required
5-3-18: Impoundment Of Unlicensed Dogs
5-3-19: Confinement Of Dogs Less Than Four Months Of Age
5-3-20: Redemption Of Impounded Animals
5-3-21: Impoundment Fees
5-3-22: Disposition Of Impounded Animals; Abandonment
5-3-23: Prohibition Of Farm Animals And Wild Animals
5-3-24: Prohibition Of Certain Reptiles
5-3-25: Care Of Feral Cats And Dogs
5-3-26: Feeding Of Birds And Wild Animals
5-3-27: Commercial Animal Establishments
5-3-28: Prohibition Of Vicious Animals
5-3-29: Procedure To Determine If Animal Is Vicious
5-3-30: Petition To Declare Animal As Vicious
5-3-31: Administrative Hearing
5-3-32: Hearing Decision
5-3-33: Disposition Of Vicious Animal
5-3-34: Dogs In Camacho Park And Sports Park
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section as follows:
ANIMAL: Any living vertebrate member of the animal kingdom, excluding man.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any person designated by the state of California, city
of Reedley, or Fresno County as an animal control officer who is authorized to
perform such duties under the laws of this state or this chapter.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility that is on property owned by the city of Reedley,
operated by a humane society, or a public agency, or its authorized agents for
the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of
this chapter or state law.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the person owning or having the possession,
charge, custody, or control of the animal and not under the immediate control
of a person by means of an enclosure, leash, rope, chain or other means of
immediate effective physical control. "At large" shall also mean when the
animal is on the premises of the person owning or having possession, charge or
custody of the animal and not under the immediate effective physical control of
said person sufficient to prevent ingress and egress of the animal.
BIRD: Any member of the bird family, including, but not limited to, parakeets,
cockatiels, macaws, parrots, finches, conures and swans, domesticated to serve
as a pet.
BREEDER: Any person, persons or business who breeds two (2) or more litters of
dogs in one year for sale or profit.
CAT: Any member of the feline family, wild or domesticated, and shall be
intended to mean both male and female.
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction, riding
school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibit, or
boarding kennel.
DOG: Any member of the canine family, wild or domesticated, and shall be
intended to mean both male and female.
DOMESTIC ANIMALS: Animals that are ordinarily permitted in a place of residence
and habituated to live on or about the habitations of persons, and kept for
company and pleasure.
EXCESSIVE NOISE: Barking, howling, whining, screaming, screeching, squeaking,
squawking, or any noise which is loud, frequent, and continual over a period of
time and which disturbs the peace and comfort of a person of ordinary
sensitivity. The following shall be presumed to disturb the peace and comfort
of a person of ordinary sensitivity: a) excessive noise for a continuous period
of ten (10) minutes; or b) excessive noise for a continuous period of five (5)
minutes on three (3) separate occasions within any sixty (60) minute period.
"Continual" shall mean excessive noise with intervals of less than sixty (60)
seconds between the noise. Provided, however, it shall not be deemed to be
excessive noise if at the time of the noise a person or persons were teasing or
provoking the animal or trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private
property of the owner.
FARM ANIMAL: Any chicken, goat, pig, cow, mule, sheep, horse, duck, goose or
other species of bird, fowl, livestock, bovine, porcine, ovine or equine animal
commonly kept or raised on a farm, except for dogs or cats that are licensed as
otherwise allowed as provided in this chapter or by state law.
FOWL: Any chicken, duck, goose, turkey, guinea, pigeon, peacock or other fowl.
HEARING OFFICER: The poundmaster or any designee of the poundmaster.
IMPOUNDMENT: The taking up and confinement of any animal in an animal shelter,
veterinary hospital, or other facility.
KENNEL: Any premises, wherein any person keeps six (6) or more dogs more than
four (4) months of age except commercial animal establishments.
LITTER: A litter shall be defined as two (2) or more offspring from one or more
female dogs located at the same premises.
LIVESTOCK: Any large animal kept or raised for use, pleasure, or profit.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, firm or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it
is fed or sheltered for three (3) consecutive days or more.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, joint venture or
entity.
PET: Any domesticated animal ordinarily permitted in a place of residence, kept
for pleasure rather than utility, such as: dogs, cats, birds, guinea pigs, or
hamsters.
PET SHOP: Any person, partnership, firm or corporation whether operated
separately or in connection with another business enterprise except for
licensed kennels, that buy, sell, or board any species of animals.
POUNDMASTER: The chief of police, unless the city manager has specifically
appointed another city employee to serve as poundmaster, or the city has
contracted for the performance of such services. Whenever the term
"poundmaster" is used in this chapter, it shall include his or her designee.
PREMISES: A house, other dwelling, lot, or parcel of land in the city
incorporated limits.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: That property on which a person or persons have the exclusive
rights of disposition.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any animal or animals which:
   A.   Molests passersby or chases passing vehicles.
   B.   Attacks other animals.
   C.   Trespasses on school grounds.
   D.   Is repeatedly at large.
   E.   Damages private or public property.
   F.   Barks, whines, or howls or makes any other noise that disturbs the
comfort and quiet of any neighborhood or any person.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any park, public building, playground, street, road, alleyway, or
other places open to the public.
REPTILE: Any cold blooded animal including, but not limited to, turtles,
snakes, lizards, crocodiles and alligators.
RESTRAINT: A leash not in excess of eight feet (8'), a tethered lead, or a
fenced enclosure capable of keeping the animal under the control of a
responsible person or within the real property limits of its owner.
UNLICENSED DOG: Any dog for which the license for the current year has not been
paid.
VACCINATION OR VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES: The inoculation of a dog with a
canine chick embryo origin modified live virus rabies vaccine, or canine nerve
tissue killed virus rabies vaccine, approved by a health officer of the United
States public health service for use in the prevention of rabies in dogs.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal, wild or domesticated that, when unprovoked, does
any of the following:
   A.   Has seriously bitten, inflicted severe injury on, or killed a human
being;
   B.   On two (2) separate occasions within the prior thirty six (36) month
period has bitten a person causing a less than severe injury;
   C.   Has attacked and killed a domestic animal;
   D.   On two (2) separate occasions within the prior thirty six (36) month
period has seriously bitten or inflicted severe injury on a domestic animal.
WILD ANIMAL: Any of the following:
   A.   Any nondomesticated animal living in a feral state;
   B.   Any animal described in California Fish and Game Code sections 2116 and
2118, or in any addition to Fish and Game Code section 2118 by regulation of
the fish and game commission as provided for in those sections;
   C.   Any animal not normally kept as a domesticated animal or pet,
nondomestic species when kept, maintained or harbored in such numbers or in
such a manner as to constitute the likelihood of danger to the animals
themselves, to human beings or to the property of human beings including, but
not limited to, alligators, crocodiles, lions, monkeys and tigers;
   D.   Any species of animal which is venomous to human beings whether its
venom is transmitted by bite, sting, touch or other means, except honey
producing bees;
   E.   A vicious animal over which the owner has evidenced a failure to
maintain control. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-2: POUNDMASTER:
The chief of police, in addition to his other duties, shall perform the duties
of poundmaster, in the absence of a poundmaster specially appointed. The chief
of police shall designate a police employee as the animal control officer. In
addition, all police officers of the city are required to perform the duties of
the animal control officer as may be required by the chief of police. (Ord.
2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-3: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
The poundmaster, or his designee, shall take up, impound and safely keep any
dog, which is found at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter within
the incorporated territory of the city. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-4: TRESPASSING; SEIZURE:
Any animal, including, but not limited to, dogs, found trespassing on private
property may be taken up and detained by the owner of the private property and
turned over to the poundmaster to be disposed of as provided by law. (Ord.
2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-5: RECORD OF IMPOUNDMENT:
The poundmaster shall keep a record of all impounded animals, including a
description of the animal, the date of receipt, the date and manner of
disposal. The poundmaster shall provide the necessary subsistence for all
animals that are impounded. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-6: DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The duties of the animal control officer shall be as follows:
   A.   To take up and impound any dog or other animals (except cats), found at
large, staked, or tied in any public place within the city or upon the premises
of any person other than the owner of such dog.
   B.   To make a complete registry of impounded animals, entering the date of
receipt, the breed, color, and sex of the animal, and if licensed, the number
of such license and the name and address of the owner.
   C.   To notify by mail or phone the owner of any animal, bearing
identification, impounded by the animal control officer, and informing the
owner that such animal is confined at the animal shelter, and specify the
amount necessary to reclaim or redeem the animal and the time period which the
animal will be held before destroying or otherwise disposing of the animal.
(Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-7: AUTHORITY OF POUNDMASTER AND ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The poundmaster shall have the same authority and powers as granted to animal
control officers. Authority or powers granted specifically to the poundmaster
may only be exercised by the poundmaster or his or her authorized designee.
   A.   Authority: Each animal control officer shall have, and is hereby vested
with the authority of a public officer. An animal control officer may, in the
performance of his or her duties, enter upon any property pursuant to law, to
ascertain if any of the provisions of this chapter or any state laws relating
to disease, care, treatment, or cruelty to animals are being violated. An
animal control officer may issue citations for the violation of the provisions
of this chapter, and state law, or city ordinance in the manner prescribed by
the ordinance, and remove animals from said premises if deemed necessary. The
authority to issue citations in the manner prescribed by the city shall be
alternative to any other authority provided by law.
   B.   Police Powers: An animal control officer of the city shall have police
powers in the enforcement of this chapter and no person shall interfere with,
hinder, molest or abuse any animal control officer of the city in the exercise
of such powers.
   C.   Animal Control Devices: In the performance of duties for the control of
animals, an animal control officer shall have the authority to employ the use
of a tranquilizer gun or other animal control devices in common use with the
state of California.
   D.   Quarantine Of Suspected Animal: Whenever the owner of any animal shall
observe or learn that the animal has rabies; has symptoms of rabies; has been
exposed to rabies or has acted in a manner that would lead the owner to suspect
that the animal might have rabies, the owner shall immediately notify the
poundmaster or animal control officer and shall allow the poundmaster or animal
control officer to make an inspection or examination of the animal. Whenever it
appears to the poundmaster or animal control officer that the animal has rabies
or has been exposed to rabies, the animal shall be quarantined until it shall
be established to the poundmaster's satisfaction that the animal does not have
rabies.
   E.   Destruction Of Rabid Animals: If the poundmaster determines that an
animal has rabies, the poundmaster shall cause said animal to be destroyed in a
lawful manner, which may include destroying the animal immediately if this is
the only method available to contain the animal. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-8: ANIMAL CARE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having custody of any animal to
permit, either wilfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, any
cruel acts upon any animal. "Cruel acts" are defined as follows:
   A.   To place, leave or expose, making accessible to animals, any poisonous
substance.
   B.   To have, keep, or harbor any animal, which is infected with any
dangerous, incurable, or painfully crippling condition, except as hereinafter
provided. All such diseased or crippled animals with an incurable ailment taken
into custody by the city shall be transferred to the poundmaster for
impoundment. This section shall not apply to animals within veterinary
hospitals or under the care of a veterinarian, or having been diagnosed with
any common, incurable disease where impoundment or quarantine is not
recommended by a veterinarian.
   C.   To fail, refuse, or neglect to provide any animal in their charge or
custody as owner or otherwise, with adequate food, drink, shade, sanitary
shelter, and protection from weather, or to carry any animal in or upon any
vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   D.   To wilfully, or maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat with a
stick, chain, club, or other object, mutilate, burn, scald with any substance,
overwork or otherwise abuse any animal as provided in Penal Code section 597,
except that reasonable force may be employed to drive off vicious or
trespassing animals.
   E.   To hobble livestock or other animals by means of chains, which are
composed of tempered or other permanent wire links.
   F.   To drive or work any animal in a cruel manner when such animal is unfit
for such work.
   G.   To promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct, carry on, or attend any game,
exhibition, contest, or fight in which one or more animals are engaged for the
purpose of injuring, killing, maiming, or destroying themselves or any other
animal or person.
   H.   No person shall keep upon any premises, any animals in a foul,
offensive, obnoxious, filthy or unsanitary condition. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-9: LIMITS ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
No person shall keep, harbor or maintain upon his or her premises within the
city more than a total of five (5) dogs over the age of four (4) months, five
(5) cats, or any combination of dogs and cats exceeding six (6) unless said
person shall obtain a kennel permit in addition to obtaining a license for each
dog more than four (4) months of age and shall comply with the kenneling permit
requirements of this chapter, unless said person comes within one of the
following conditions:
   A.   Upon reasonable showing of necessity to the animal control officer, a
person may be permitted to keep a dog or cat on a temporary basis for a period
not to exceed thirty (30) days.
   B.   Any person keeping, harboring, or maintaining six (6) or more licensed
dogs, six (6) or more cats, or any combination of dogs and cats exceeding six
(6) upon any premises in the city on the effective date of this section shall
be required to obtain a yearly kennel permit from the city and pay any
applicable permit fees in order to continue to keep, harbor, or maintain the
dogs and/or cats in excess of the limits in this section. The kennel permit
shall be obtained no later than ninety (90) days after the effective date of
this section, and shall be renewed annually for so long as dogs and/or cats in
excess of the limits herein are kept, harbored, or maintained on the premises.
(Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-10: EXCESSIVE NOISE; NUISANCE:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall keep or maintain, or cause or permit to be
kept or maintained upon any premises within the city limits, any animal which
creates excessive noise that disturbs the peace and comfort of any neighborhood
or interferes with the reasonable and comfortable enjoyment of life or property
by any person. Violation of this subsection is an infraction.
   B.   Nuisance Prohibited On Property Of Others: No person shall keep or
maintain, or cause or permit to be kept or maintained, any animal owned by him
or in his possession or under his control, which habitually commits a nuisance
upon the property of any other person. Violation of this subsection is an
infraction.
   C.   Fines: Any person convicted of an infraction under the provisions of
this chapter shall be punishable by: 1) a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for a first violation; 2) a fine not exceeding two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for a second violation of the same provision within one year
of the date of the first violation; 3) a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each additional violation of the same provision within
one year of the date of the first violation.
   D.   Probable Cause Determined Upon Investigation; Actions Taken: If an
animal control officer determines upon investigation that there is probable
cause to believe that the owner of the animal is maintaining an animal which
creates excessive noise, the officer may take the following actions:
      1.   First Offenses: For a first time offense, the officer should issue a
warning to the owner of the animal notifying the owner of the excessive noise
complaint(s) and inform the owner of steps necessary to correct the problem and
the consequences if the owner fails to take corrective steps.
      2.   Second And Subsequent Offenses: For a second offense and subsequent
offenses, the officer should issue an infraction citation.
   E.   Seizure And Impoundment: In addition to any other remedy available to
the city under this chapter or this code, the investigating animal control
officer may seize and impound any animal that is creating excessive noise. The
owner of such animal shall be responsible for the costs of impoundment as
provided in this chapter.
   F.   Removal Of Animal From City: Upon a fourth offense within a twelve (12)
month period, the animal making the excessive noise shall be deemed a public
nuisance and the poundmaster may order the owner to permanently remove the
animal from the city limits. A failure to so remove the animal shall be a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-11: ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No owner of any animal, except a cat that has been spayed or neutered, shall
cause, permit, or allow any such animal to be at large in the city. A violation
of this provision is an infraction. An animal that is at large three (3) or
more times within a twelve (12) month period shall be deemed a public nuisance
and the poundmaster may order the owner to remove the animal from the city
limits. A failure to so remove the animal shall be a misdemeanor. The
poundmaster shall have the authority to take up and impound any animal at
large, except a cat that has been spayed or neutered. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-12: ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Whenever it is shown that any animal has bitten any person, the owner
thereof shall, upon notice from the poundmaster, quarantine it and keep it tied
up or confined for a period of ten (10) days and shall allow the poundmaster or
other authorized official to make an examination of the animal at any time
during the period of quarantine.
   B.   The owner of an animal that has bitten a person or domestic animal
shall, upon demand from any animal control officer, demonstrate to the officer
that the animal has been properly immunized with a rabies vaccine in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter or otherwise release the animal to the
animal control officer for inspection or quarantine. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-13: ANIMALS BITTEN BY OTHER ANIMALS:
Whenever any animal shall be bitten by another animal having rabies or showing
symptoms of having rabies, the owner of the animal so bitten shall, upon being
informed thereof, either destroy the animal, quarantine it and keep it confined
for a period of at least six (6) months, or place the animal in the care of a
duly licensed veterinarian for the purpose of having the standard antirabies
treatment administered and keep the animal confined for a period of at least
three (3) weeks after the treatment has been completed. The poundmaster shall
have the authority to quarantine, treat, or destroy the animal so bitten if the
owner thereof fails to do so immediately or is unavailable. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-
22-2009)
5-3-14: BRINGING ANIMAL INTO CITY:
No person shall bring an animal or permit an animal to enter the city if the
animal has rabies or has had rabies within six (6) months prior to entering the
city, unless the animal has been vaccinated with antirabies vaccine, and the
owner of the animal has an official tag or other receipt showing that the
animal has been vaccinated by a duly licensed veterinarian. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-
22-2009)
5-3-15: DOGS; LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person owning, possessing, keeping, harboring or having custody
of any dog over four (4) months old shall obtain a license for each dog. The
applicable license fee shall be paid annually. The license fees shall be set by
city council resolution. Such license shall be obtained, and the applicable
license fee paid within thirty (30) days after the day on which a dog reaches
four (4) months old, within thirty (30) days after acquisition of a dog if over
four (4) months old, or within thirty (30) days of moving into the city. Any
person who enters the city intending to reside in the city beyond a period of
thirty (30) days, and who has brought a dog with them from outside the city,
shall secure a license and pay the applicable license fee for the dog within
thirty (30) days after the person enters the city. A license shall not be
issued for any dog unless a valid certificate of rabies vaccination signed by a
duly licensed veterinarian showing that the dog has been vaccinated within the
prior twelve (12) months is presented and the applicable license fee paid.
   B.   The license shall be renewed on January 1 of each year thereafter.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   Service Dogs For The Disabled: Dogs being raised, trained and used
to aid disabled persons shall be licensed without fee. Such dogs shall be
either a guide dog, service dog, or signal dog as defined in California Civil
Code section 54.1.
      2.   Government Dogs: Dogs owned and used by the city, county, or other
public agencies, including dogs used by law enforcement agencies in the
performance of law enforcement activity, shall be licensed without fee.
      3.   Temporary: Dogs brought into the city for the purpose of
participating in any dog show or whose owners are nonresidents or temporarily
within the city for a period not exceeding thirty (30) consecutive days need
not be licensed. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-16: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE AND TAG:
   A.   Upon payment of the license fee, the city shall issue to the person
making the payment a license certificate and a tag bearing the serial number
and year for which the license is issued. The license tag must, in all cases
and at all times, be fastened to a suitable collar worn around the neck of the
dog for which it was issued. Whenever a tag issued for the then current year
has been stolen or lost, the owner of the dog for which the tag was issued may
request a replacement tag.
   B.   No refunds or credits shall be made on any license because of the death
of any licensed animal or the owner leaving the city before the expiration of
the license period. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-17: RABIES VACCINATIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person who keeps or harbors any dog over the age of four (4)
months shall have such dog vaccinated against rabies by a duly licensed
veterinarian. Such vaccination shall be at intervals of eighteen (18) months if
nerve tissue vaccine is used or twenty four (24) months if chick embryo vaccine
is used.
   B.   Every person bringing any dog into the city which has not been so
vaccinated within the time stated above prior to importation, shall cause such
dog to be vaccinated within thirty (30) days after its arrival in the city.
   C.   On demand of the poundmaster, every person keeping or harboring any dog
over four (4) months of age shall exhibit to the poundmaster a certificate of a
duly licensed veterinarian certifying that said dog has been vaccinated, the
date of the vaccination and the type of vaccine used.
   D.   The poundmaster shall impound any dog which has not been vaccinated as
required by this section. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-18: IMPOUNDMENT OF UNLICENSED DOGS:
Any dog upon which the license fee is unpaid, or upon which the owner refuses
to pay the license fee, or refuses to have the dog vaccinated as herein
required, may be lawfully taken up and impounded by the poundmaster, his
designee, or any animal control officer, and it shall be lawful for such
officer to enter upon the property of any person for the purpose of enforcing
this section.
Any dog taken up and impounded pursuant to this section shall be held at the
animal shelter. If the owner of the dog fails to take the necessary action to
properly license the dog and pay the applicable impound fees to redeem the dog
within five (5) days of impoundment, the poundmaster shall cause the dog to be
disposed of in any lawful manner.
In addition to the requirements for the license fees, the owner shall also pay
redemption and impoundment fees before the impounded dog will be released.
(Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-19: CONFINEMENT OF DOGS LESS THAN FOUR MONTHS OF AGE:
All dogs less than four (4) months of age shall be confined to the premises of,
or kept under physical restraint by the owner, keeper, or harborer. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prevent the sale or transportation of a
puppy four (4) months old or younger. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-20: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
The owner or person(s) entitled to the control of any animal, which is
impounded, may at any time prior to the lawful disposal of the animal redeem
the animal by paying all applicable fees. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-21: IMPOUNDMENT FEES:
The fees for impoundment and redemption of all animals impounded under this
chapter shall be established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2009-04,
9-22-2009)
5-3-22: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; ABANDONMENT:
   A.   All animals impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
disposed of as provided by law; provided, that no impounded dog shall be
disposed of until after written notice has been given by the poundmaster or his
designee to the owner of said dog as provided in this chapter. If the dog is
licensed under the provisions of this chapter and a city license tag is affixed
to the collar of the dog, the notice shall be given to the owner at the address
set forth in the city licensing records. If the dog is not licensed and there
is no license tag attached to the collar of the dog, no notice need be given,
unless the unlicensed dog is impounded pursuant to section
5-3-18 of this chapter and the dog owner's address is known by the poundmaster
or any animal control officer. If no person appears and redeems the dog within
five (5) days from the date of mailing of the notice or within five (5) days
after the dog was impounded, whichever is later, the poundmaster shall cause
the dog to be disposed of in any lawful manner.
   B.   If any unlicensed dog, or any dog bearing no license tag, is taken up
and impounded under the provisions of this chapter, and is not redeemed within
five (5) days of impoundment, the poundmaster may, in his discretion, at any
time thereafter, humanely destroy such dog or turn over to the SPCA for
disposal.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an impounded animal that
is not redeemed within the specified holding period, whether due to a failure
to satisfy monetary obligations or otherwise, shall be considered to be
abandoned by its owner and shall become the property of the city. Thereafter,
such animal may be adopted or euthanized. Abandonment does not relieve the
owner's obligation to pay all fees related to the impounding and keeping of the
animal. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-23: PROHIBITION OF FARM ANIMALS AND WILD ANIMALS:
No person shall keep, harbor, or maintain any farm animal or wild animal on any
lot or parcel within the city, unless specifically permitted by the zoning
regulations of the city or in connection with bona fide schools, colleges,
universities, research organizations, zoos, and laboratories engaged in the
field of scientific research and education. Any person keeping, harboring, or
maintaining any farm animal or wild animal on the effective date of this
chapter shall have ninety (90) days from the effective date hereof to come into
compliance with this section. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-24: PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN REPTILES:
The keeping of reptiles in the city is limited to turtles, lizards, and
nonvenomous snakes no longer than six feet (6') in length. No person shall
keep, harbor, or maintain any reptile other than turtles, lizards, and
nonvenomous snakes no longer than six feet (6') in length on any lot or parcel
within the city, except in connection with bona fide schools, colleges,
universities, research organizations, zoos, and laboratories engaged in the
field of scientific research and education. It shall be unlawful for any person
to keep, harbor, or maintain within the city any snake that is determined by
the poundmaster to be a nuisance or a danger to persons or other animals. (Ord.
2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-25: CARE OF FERAL CATS AND DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to intentionally provide
food, water, or other forms of sustenance to a feral cat or feral dog. (Ord.
2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-26: FEEDING OF BIRDS AND WILD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to feed any bird or wild animal outdoors in
a manner that creates: harmful health and/or sanitation conditions; destruction
of property; unsightly or increased slipperiness of sidewalks; animal
dependency; attraction of squirrels, rats and/or other vermin; or otherwise
creates an unreasonable disturbance, such as noise, so as to disturb the peace
and comfort of two (2) or more persons of ordinary sensitivity from different
surrounding households. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-27: COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association to erect,
establish, and maintain any commercial animal establishment or pet shop without
first obtaining a business license from the city. After inspection and approval
of the conditions of the commercial animal establishment by the poundmaster,
the required business license may be issued by the city. Such license shall be
issued pursuant to city licensing regulations, provided, any inspection by the
poundmaster and other city officials does not reveal any violation of the
provisions of this chapter, the city building codes, zoning ordinances, or any
other ordinances, rules or regulations.
Every person within the city who owns, conducts, manages, a commercial animal
establishment for which a city business license or special use permit is
required shall comply with each of the following conditions:
   A.   Housing facilities shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained
in good repair to protect animals from injury and restrict entrance of other
animals.
   B.   All animals and all animal buildings or enclosures shall be maintained
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   C.   All animals shall be supplied with sufficient good and wholesome food
and water as often as the feeding habits of the respective animals require.
   D.   Animal buildings and enclosures shall be so constructed and maintained
as to prevent escape of animals.
   E.   All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the public from
the animals and the animals from the public.
   F.   Every building or enclosure wherein animals are maintained shall be
properly ventilated to prevent drafts and to remove odors. Heating and cooling
shall be provided as required according to the physical needs of the animals.
   G.   All animal rooms, cages, and runs shall be of sufficient size to
provide adequate and proper housing for animals kept therein.
   H.   All animal runs shall be of concrete and provided with adequate
drainage into an approved sewer or individual sewer disposal installation.
   I.   Any animal shall be taken to a licensed veterinarian for an examination
and treatment if so ordered by the animal control officer.
   J.   Every violation of applicable regulation shall be corrected within
reasonable time to be specified by the animal control officer.
   K.   Commercial animal establishments shall comply with all other applicable
Reedley codes and ordinances.
   L.   All commercial animal establishments may be inspected from time to time
by an animal control officer to investigate any complaints of violations of the
provisions of this section.
Failure of the applicant for a license or special use permit to comply with any
one of the foregoing conditions shall be deemed just cause for the denial of
any business license, whether original or renewal and/or the issuance of a
citation for violations pursuant to provisions of this section. (Ord. 2009-04,
9-22-2009)
5-3-28: PROHIBITION OF VICIOUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for a person to keep a vicious animal. Any animal which
has been found to be vicious pursuant to this chapter, or any other county or
city ordinance or any state statute, shall be conclusively presumed to be
vicious. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-29: PROCEDURE TO DETERMINE IF ANIMAL IS VICIOUS:
   A.   Whenever an animal suspected of being vicious is reported, an animal
control officer shall investigate the circumstances and if the officer finds
that the animal has attacked, bitten, or caused injury to any human or a
domestic animal, or shows a propensity to attack or bite people or other
domestic animals without provocation, the officer shall notify the owner in
writing, stating the facts and circumstances. The animal control officer may
order that the animal be kept within an enclosure, securely leashed or
otherwise controlled.
   B.   If the animal control officer has probable cause to believe an animal
may be designated as "vicious" under this chapter, and the owner is unwilling
or unable to properly contain or control the animal immediately or the animal
poses an immediate threat to the safety of persons or domestic animals, the
animal may be seized pending the outcome of a hearing or trial and any appeals
conducted pursuant to this chapter, or during the period of time the owner
needs to comply with any requirements imposed hereunder. Any animal seized
hereunder shall be impounded and kept at the animal shelter at the owner's
expense.
   C.   The animal's owner shall be charged for all costs incurred or fees
applicable with respect to such impoundment unless a finding is made that the
animal is not vicious. An animal held under the provisions of this section
shall not be released until the owner pays all applicable costs and fees for
impoundment and redemption under this chapter. If the owner refuses to pay such
charges, the animal shall be treated as abandoned by the owner, and disposed of
pursuant to section
5-3-22 of this chapter. Disposal of the animal does not release the owner from
his/her responsibility to pay the impoundment charges. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-
2009)
5-3-30: PETITION TO DECLARE ANIMAL AS VICIOUS:
If an animal control officer has investigated and determined that there is
probable cause to believe that an animal is vicious, an animal control officer
or the poundmaster may prepare a petition to have the animal declared vicious.
The petition may be filed with the court or the city manager. If filed with the
court, the procedures set forth in Food and Agricultural Code sections 31621
through 31624, as those sections may be amended from time to time, shall apply.
If filed with the city manager, the procedures set forth in this chapter shall
apply. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-31: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
There is hereby created an administrative procedure for the hearing of
petitions filed with the city manager. Hearings for classification as "vicious"
shall be conducted as follows:
   A.   The owner of the animal shall be given written notice of the hearing,
by either first class mail or personal service, a copy of the petition, and
notice of the restrictions that will apply to the animal if it is classified as
a vicious animal. A failure of the owner to receive notice by first class mail
shall not affect the validity of these proceedings. The animal control officer
shall also send written notice of the hearing to any alleged victims of the
animal.
   B.   The owner may waive his/her right to a hearing by filing a written
waiver with the poundmaster, whereupon the poundmaster shall make the findings
and apply the sanctions provided in this chapter.
   C.   If the animal has not been impounded, the hearing shall be set not less
than five (5) working days nor more than thirty (30) calendar days after the
notice was mailed to the owner or the owner was personally served. If the
animal has been impounded, the hearing shall be set not less than five (5)
calendar days after the notice was mailed to the owner or the owner was
personally served, and within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of
impoundment. The owner of the animal may agree to an earlier or later hearing
date.
   D.   If the owner fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing shall
nevertheless proceed, and an appropriate order shall be issued.
   E.   The hearing shall be conducted before a hearing officer appointed by
the city manager. The poundmaster may not serve as the hearing officer. The
hearing shall be conducted informally and the technical rules of evidence shall
not apply. The hearing officer shall consider all relevant evidence presented
at the hearing. The animal control officer filing the petition shall be present
at the hearing and shall present evidence that the animal is vicious by witness
testimony or affidavits, incident reports, and other records.
   F.   In making a determination of whether or not an animal is vicious,
evidence of the following may be considered:
      1.   Any previous history of the animal attacking, biting or causing
injury to a human being or other animal;
      2.   The nature and extent of injuries inflicted and the number of
victims involved;
      3.   The place where the bite, attack or injury occurred;
      4.   The circumstances surrounding the bite, attack, or injury,
including, without limitation, the presence or absence of any provocation for
the bite, attack or injury;
      5.   The extent to which property has been damaged or destroyed;
      6.   Whether the animal exhibits any characteristics of being trained for
fighting or attack or other evidence to show such training or fighting;
      7.   Whether the animal exhibits characteristics or aggressive or
unpredictable temperament or behavior in the presence of human beings or dogs
or other animals;
      8.   Whether the animal can be effectively trained to change its
temperament or behavior;
      9.   The manner in which the animal has been maintained by its owner or
custodian;
      10.   Any other relevant evidence concerning the maintenance of the
animal; and
      11.   Any other relevant evidence regarding the ability of the owner or
custodian to protect the public safety in the future if the animal is permitted
to remain in the city. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-32: HEARING DECISION:
   A.   After the hearing, the owner or keeper of the animal shall be notified
in writing of the hearing officer's decision and any orders issued, either
personally or by first class mail. The hearing officer shall prepare a written
decision within fifteen (15) days after the hearing is concluded, unless the
animal has been impounded, in which case the written decision shall be prepared
within five (5) working days after the hearing is concluded. The decision of
the hearing officer shall be final. A failure of the owner to receive notice by
first class mail shall not affect the validity of the proceedings or any
decision or order issued.
   B.   If the owner or keeper of the animal contests the hearing officer's
decision, he or she may, within five (5) days of the service of the decision if
service is by personal service, or within six (6) days of service of the
decision if service is by mail, appeal the decision of the hearing officer to
the superior court, Reedley division, or other court having jurisdiction. The
owner or keeper of the animal shall serve notice of appeal on the city by
either first class mail or personally on the city manager. Any such appeal
shall be a trial de novo. The determination of the court hearing the appeal
shall be final and conclusive upon all parties. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-33: DISPOSITION OF VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, harbor or keep any
animal declared to be vicious pursuant to this chapter or any decision
following a hearing conducted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Any animal declared vicious, if not already impounded, shall be
immediately surrendered to an animal control officer, and it is the duty of any
animal control officer to take up and impound any such animal.
   C.   Any animal declared vicious shall be lawfully and humanely destroyed.
The animal control officer shall sign an order authorizing the destruction of
the animal no sooner than five (5) business days following the hearing
officer's decision declaring the animal vicious. (Ord. 2009-04, 9-22-2009)
5-3-34: DOGS IN CAMACHO PARK AND SPORTS PARK:
No dogs shall be permitted in Camacho park and the sports park at any time
whether on leash or off leash, except seeing eye dogs, police or fire service
dogs, or when permitted by the city's park and recreation department for
purposes of show or competition. A permit of use shall be obtained from the
city's park and recreation department prior to any show or competition of dogs.
A deposit for usage and cleanup will be assessed with said permit. (Ord. 2009-
04, 9-22-2009)
CHAPTER 4
HANDBILLS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Public Nuisance Declared
5-4-3: Restrictions On Distribution
5-4-4: Posting Property
5-4-5: Hours Of Distribution
5-4-6: Exemptions
5-4-7: Political And Religious Literature
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
HANDBILL: Includes any printed or written advertising matter, any sample or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, paper, booklet or any
other printed matter or literature.
PERSON: Includes any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind. (Ord. 210, 6-4-1940)
5-4-2: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
The city council thereby finds and determines that entire communities within
the city and a considerable number of citizens are adversely affected by
persons, without consent or license, throwing, casting, distributing,
scattering and depositing handbills, dodgers, circulars, newspapers, booklets,
posters, printed matter and advertising literature upon public or private
property in such manner as to allow the material to blow or scatter, thereby
causing a littering problem. Such acts are hereby declared to constitute a
public nuisance. (Ord. 587, 11-15-1977)
5-4-3: RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   Public Property: It shall be unlawful for any person, either directly
or indirectly, to deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any handbill in or on
any public thoroughfare, park, grounds or other public place; the provisions of
this subsection shall not be deemed to prohibit the handling, transmitting or
distributing of any handbill to any person willing to accept such handbill.
   B.   Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person, either directly or
indirectly, to distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any handbill
in or upon any automobile or other vehicle; the provisions of this subsection
shall not be deemed to prohibit the handing, transmitting or distributing of
any handbill to the owner or other occupant of any automobile or other vehicle.
(Ord. 210, 6-4-1940)
   C.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person, either directly
or indirectly, to distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any
handbill in or upon any private yard, grounds, walk, porch, steps, mailbox,
vestibule, house, residence, building or any other private property in such a
manner as to allow the matter to scatter or blow, thereby causing a littering
problem; the provisions of this subsection shall not be deemed to prohibit the
handling, transmitting or distributing of any handbill to the owner or other
occupant of said private yard, grounds, walk, porch, steps, mailbox, vestibule,
house, residence, building or other private property with his consent. (Ord.
587, 11-15-1977)
5-4-4: POSTING PROPERTY:
It shall be lawful for the owner or the occupant of any property to place a
sign in a conspicuous place near the entrance thereof indicating that no
handbills are desired; and it shall be unlawful for any person to go upon said
premises so posted and distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any
handbill. (Ord. 210, 6-4-1940)
5-4-5: HOURS OF DISTRIBUTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute any handbill between the
hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of any day and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of
the following day. (Ord. 210, 6-4-1940)
5-4-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to apply to the distribution
of the United States mail nor to the delivery of any handbill to any person who
has requested delivery of the same. (Ord. 210, 6-4-1940)
5-4-7: POLITICAL AND RELIGIOUS LITERATURE:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to limit the distribution of political and religious
literature to persons willing to receive the same or to limit the placing of
such literature on private property within the vestibule or outer door of a
home in such a manner as to prevent the material distributed from blowing or
scattering. (Ord. 514, 10-2-1973)
CHAPTER 5
HAWKERS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Registration And Photo Identification Required
5-5-3: Hours Of Operation
5-5-4: Period For Free Rescission Of Sales
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
HAWKER, SOLICITOR, MERCHANDISER, SALESPERSON, PEDDLER AND VENDOR: All persons,
both principal and agent, whether or not they be religious or charitable
entities, who go from house to house or to one house only, and for value sell
or solicit for sale, by sample or otherwise, goods, wares, merchandise,
services, magazines, periodicals, other publications, or subscriptions for the
same (regularly published newspapers excepted), for themselves or for firms
which do or do not have an established place of business in the city or who
offer to sell or distribute for value to any person any coupon, certificate,
ticket or card which is redeemable in goods, wares, merchandise or services.
Excluded from this definition shall be residents of the city who participate in
fundraising efforts of local public or local private schools or other local
entities exempt from federal income tax pursuant to United States Code title 26
section 501(c)(3). For the purposes of this paragraph the term "local" shall
mean of or pertaining to public or private schools or other entities which, for
a period of six (6) continuous months prior to the date fundraising activities
commence, have had a street address within the city limits.
HOUSE: A house, abode, dwelling, home, apartment, condominium, residence,
mobile home, townhouse, villa, hospital, clinic, infirmary, medical center or
sanitorium.
INTERVIEWER AND CANVASSER: Subject to the exception set forth in the definition
of "hawker", all persons, both principal and agent, who go from house to house,
or to one house only, and interview persons, solicit oral or written answers
from persons, or canvass persons, neighborhoods or districts, in order to
determine opinions, attitudes or sentiments for purposes of marketing research,
opinion research, attitude research or the polling or the gathering of
information, except that persons engaged in religious or government activities
shall be excluded from this definition. (Ord. 750, 5-28-1991)
5-5-2: REGISTRATION AND PHOTO IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED:
   A.   All hawkers, solicitors, merchandisers, salespersons, peddlers,
vendors, interviewers and canvassers are hereby required to register with the
police department of the city by submitting two (2) satisfactory photographs of
the applicant, a fee in an amount to be set by resolution and a signed
application, the supplied information on which shall be declared by the
applicant under penalty of perjury to be true and correct, on an application
form to be provided by the police department, which form shall elicit the
names, aliases, social security number, date of birth and residence address of
the applicant; the name of the organization, business, company, concern,
establishment, enterprise, firm, institution or society, if any, for which the
applicant proposes to act; a statement that the applicant has not been
convicted of a felony involving moral turpitude within five (5) years prior to
the time of making application, is presently not on parole for conviction of a
felony involving moral turpitude, and has not been convicted of any crime
involving sexual matters within ten (10) years prior to the time of making
application.
   B.   Any organization, business, company, concern, establishment,
enterprise, firm, institution or society sponsoring or employing or utilizing
the services of, any hawker, solicitor, merchandiser, salesperson, peddler,
vendor, interviewer or canvasser shall, before any such persons act as such,
pay to the police department a fee in an amount to be set by resolution and
present to and keep updated with the police department a list of the names,
aliases, residence addresses, social security numbers and dates of birth of
such persons, together with the name of the entity itself and its business
address and phone number, the name of its chief executive officer and his
residence address and phone number and written disclosure of the information
described by the provisions of Business and Professions Code section 17510.3
(a).
   C.   All hawkers, solicitors, merchandisers, salespersons, peddlers,
vendors, interviewers and canvassers, when operating as such, shall display on
the front of their person an identification card issued to them by the police
department and shall, in any case, exhibit said identification card on demand
of any peace officer, which card shall be of the design and materials chosen
and supplied by the person or entity proposing to be permitted and to which
card shall be affixed by the police department one of the two (2) submitted
photographs, which card shall further set forth the name of the person (and, if
applicable, the name of any entity for which he operates), the date of issuance
of the card and the expiration date of the registration, which shall be one
year after issuance of the identification card, after which expiration
registration may be renewed pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   D.   No hawker, solicitor, merchandiser, salesperson, peddler, vendor,
interviewer or canvasser and no sponsoring or employing entity shall be
permitted to operate as such within the city who has not complied with the
requirements of subsections A, B and C of this section. (Ord. 750, 5-28-1991)
5-5-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No person shall operate as a hawker, solicitor, merchandiser, salesperson,
peddler, vendor, interviewer or canvasser within the city on Sundays or on
Monday through Saturday between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of one
day and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. of the next succeeding day, local time, except
by prior appointment. (Ord. 750, 5-28-1991)
5-5-4: PERIOD FOR FREE RESCISSION OF SALES:
No goods, wares, merchandise, services, magazines, periodicals, or other
publications, or subscriptions for the same (regularly published newspapers
excepted) shall be sold, hawked, solicited for sale, merchandised, peddled or
vended, except the owner or resident of the house be: a) given a receipt that
shall include the name, address and phone number of the registered person or
the names, addresses and phone numbers of the registered person and his
registered sponsoring or employing entity, as reported pursuant to subsections
5-5-2A and B of this chapter; and b) entitled within twenty four (24) hours
thereafter to rescind the sale or reject the proffered service, upon full
exchange of consideration between the parties which shall take place within a
reasonable time after rescission, and in no event later than three (3) days
thereafter. (Ord. 750, 5-28-1991)
CHAPTER 6
LOST OR UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-6-1: Custody Of Lost Or Unclaimed Property
5-6-2: Record Kept
5-6-3: Waiting Period
5-6-4: Disposition Of Property
5-6-5: Return Of Property To Finder
5-6-1: CUSTODY OF LOST OR UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
The police department shall take charge of all lost or unclaimed property which
is turned over to or comes into the possession of the city, and shall retain
the possession thereof subject to the provisions of this chapter. All employees
and officers of the city shall turn over to the police department any lost or
unclaimed property which is turned over to or comes into the possession of the
employee or officer as a result of his employment. This chapter shall not apply
to vehicles the abandonment of which is covered by the provisions of the
California Vehicle Code. (Ord. 399, 2-21-1967)
5-6-2: RECORD KEPT:
The police department shall keep a record of all such property, together with
the date, description and name, if any, of the person from whom it was received
and the place and circumstances under which it was taken, found or recovered,
plus the name and address of the finder or claimed owner, if known. (Ord. 399,
2-21-1967)
5-6-3: WAITING PERIOD:
If no owner appears within three (3) months, or in the case of bicycles within
thirty (30) days, after such property comes into the possession of the police
department and offers reasonable proof satisfactory to the chief of police of
his ownership and compensates the city for the expenses, if any, incurred in
the removal, maintenance, preservation and keeping of said property, as the
chief of police shall determine, then the title to such property shall
thereupon vest in the city; provided, however, that the police department shall
exercise due diligence to ascertain the owner and notify him of its possession
of such property; and provided further, that the title to clothing, bedding,
wearing apparel and other similar property, which comes into the possession of
the police department shall vest in the city after the expiration of thirty
(30) days unless the owner reclaims same; and all such property may, in the
discretion of the chief of police, be delivered over gratuitously to any public
or private charitable organization after said thirty (30) day period. (Ord.
399, 2-21-1967)
5-6-4: DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Certain Articles: The chief of police shall have power in his
discretion to summarily destroy all liquors, burglar tools, knives, firearms,
deadly weapons, explosive or other dangerous or noxious articles or materials
coming into the possession of the city, or deliver them for use by other
governmental agencies, provided that any weapon or device declared by Penal
Code section 12028, 12028.5, 12029 or any other section of the Penal Code to be
a nuisance or therein ordered to be destroyed, shall be destroyed as therein
provided. (Ord. 399, 2-21-1967)
   B.   Remaining Articles: Any property held by the police department
hereunder and not returned to the owner or finder or disposed of under this
section, or for which the claimant refuses to pay the charges may, at the
discretion of the chief of police, be delivered to the public works department
of the city, and thereafter disposed of or used as in sections 5-6-6 and 5-6-
7 of this chapter. (Ord. 399, 2-21-1967; amd. 2007 Code)
   C.   Sale Procedures:
      1.   Manner Of Sale: Property delivered under section
5-6-5 of this chapter may be sold. At a time and place fixed, such property may
be sold at public auction to the highest bidder by the city; provided, however,
that the right shall be reserved to reject any and all bids. The property may
also be sold to the highest bidder under a sealed bid procedure. The proceeds
from such sales shall be paid over to the city clerk and deposited in the
general fund of the city.
      2.   Notice Of Sale: At least ten (10) days before the date of the
intended sale notice thereof shall be posted on the bulletin boards of the city
hall and of police headquarters, which notice shall specify the property to be
sold, and that the sale shall be for cash.
      3.   Remaining Articles: All property unsold may be used or disposed of
as other city property. (Ord. 399, 2-21-1967)
5-6-5: RETURN OF PROPERTY TO FINDER:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if the true owner does not
appear during the three (3) month period (or 30 days in the case of bicycles)
and claim the property, it may be delivered back to the person who delivered it
to the chief of police if at the time of delivery or prior to disposition of
the property such person has indicated in writing that he wishes to assert a
claim to the property as a finder, provided that no property delivered to the
police department by an employee or an officer of the city shall be returned to
said officer or employee. If the finder does not collect the property within
ten (10) days of notification of the end of the holding period, the property
shall be treated as other property under this chapter. This section shall not
affect the disposition of the articles mentioned in section
5-6-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 399, 2-21-1967)
CHAPTER 7
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Sale Of Fireworks; Permit Required
5-7-3: Application For Fireworks Permit
5-7-4: Notice Of Granting Or Rejecting Permit
5-7-5: Qualifications For Permit Issuance
5-7-6: Temporary Fireworks Stands
5-7-7: Operation Of Fireworks Stand
5-7-8: General Requirements For Permittees
5-7-9: Temporary Sales Tax Permit Required
5-7-10: Display Of Licenses And Permits
5-7-11: State Fireworks Law
5-7-12: Revocation Of Permits
5-7-13: Possession Or Use Of Dangerous Fireworks
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise apparent from the context,
certain words and phrases used in this chapter are defined as follows:
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS: Any fireworks specified as such in the state fireworks
law, section 12500 et seq., of the Health And Safety Code of the state, and
such other fireworks as may be determined to be dangerous by the state fire
marshal.
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS: Shall mean and include only unaltered fireworks not
designated as "dangerous fireworks", except that, in any case, only end fuses
may be used. (Ord. 2013-004, 6-25-2013)
5-7-2: SALE OF FIREWORKS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any
dangerous fireworks in the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any safe
and sane fireworks in the city without first obtaining a permit therefor. (Ord.
2013-004, 6-25-2013)
5-7-3: APPLICATION FOR FIREWORKS PERMIT:
All applications for a permit to sell fireworks shall:
   A.   Be made in writing accompanied by a permit fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) per stand, which may be established and modified from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 95-009, 6-13-1995; amd. 2007 Code)
   B.   Be made between the first business day of February and March 31 of each
year except when the March 31 falls on a Saturday or Sunday; then, the
following business day shall be determined to be the last day. (Ord. 2001-02,
5-8-2001)
   C.   Set forth the proposed location of the fireworks stand.
   D.   Be accompanied by an assurance that if the permit is issued to the
applicant, applicant shall, at the time of receipt of permit, deliver to the
business license clerk a five hundred thousand dollar ($500,000.00) combined
single limit insurance certificate designating the city as an additional
insured, and a copy of the required license from the state fire marshal.
   E.   Include a statement that the applicant agrees to comply strictly with
the terms of any retail permit granted and furnish any additional information
upon request of the city. (Ord. 657)
5-7-4: NOTICE OF GRANTING OR REJECTING PERMIT:
Applicants for a permit shall be notified by the business license clerk by
April 15 of the granting or rejection of such application for a permit. (Ord.
657)
5-7-5: QUALIFICATIONS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE:
The following qualifications must be met by each applicant for a permit:
   A.   No permit shall be issued to any person except nonprofit associations
or corporations organized primarily for civic betterment or youth activities.
   B.   Each such organization must have its principal and permanent meeting
place in the corporation limits of the city; must maintain a bona fide
membership of at least twenty (20) members; and must have been organized and
established within the city's corporate limits for a minimum of one year
continuously preceding the filing of the application for the permit. (Ord. 657)
   C.   No organization shall receive more than one permit for fireworks sales
during any one calendar year. One permit may be issued to two (2) or more
qualifying applicants as a joint venture. The maximum number of permits which
may be issued during any one calendar year shall not exceed one permit for each
two thousand five hundred (2,500) residents of the city, or fraction thereof,
based on the latest census estimate, or ten (10) permits, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 2001-02, 5-8-2001)
   D.   If the number of applications exceed the number of permits to be
issued, the permittees during the preceding year shall have first priority for
the available permits, provided each permittee retains the same participating
organization which operated under the permit during the preceding year. Each
participating organization in a joint venture shall be deemed to be a
copermittee with the same duties and liabilities under the permit. If there are
any additional permits available, such additional permits shall be granted by
the business license clerk on a first come, first served basis. (Ord. 657; amd.
2007 Code)
5-7-6: TEMPORARY FIREWORKS STANDS:
All retail sales of safe and sane fireworks shall be permitted only from within
a temporary fireworks stand, and sales from any other building or structure is
prohibited. Temporary fireworks stands shall be subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   No fireworks stand shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of
any building or within one hundred feet (100') of any gasoline pump.
   B.   Fireworks stands need not comply with the provisions of the building
code; provided however, that all stands shall be erected under the supervision
of the building official, who shall require that all stands be constructed in a
manner that will reasonably ensure the safety of attendants and customers.
   C.   No stand shall have a floor area in excess of four hundred (400) square
feet.
   D.   Each stand in excess of twenty four feet (24') in length must have at
least two (2) exits; and each stand in excess of forty feet (40') in length
must have at least three (3) exits spaced approximately equal distances apart.
   E.   Each stand shall keep and maintain in good working order at all times a
two and one-half (21/2) gallon water pressure type fire extinguisher located
next to each exit and easily accessible for use in case of fire. (Ord. 2013-
004, 6-25-2013)
5-7-7: OPERATION OF FIREWORKS STAND:
   A.   Fireworks stands as authorized in this chapter may only operate during
the period of June 28 to July 4 each year. The hours of operation for any
fireworks stand shall be as set forth in the permit issued for such permittee
organization.
   B.   No entity other than the permittee organization shall operate the
fireworks stand for which the permit is issued.
   C.   No person other than the individuals who are members of the permittee
organization, or spouses or adult children of such members, shall operate the
fireworks stand or otherwise sell or participate in the sale of fireworks at
such stand.
   D.   No person shall be paid any consideration for operating the fireworks
stand or otherwise selling or participating in the sale of fireworks at such
stand. (Ord. 2013-004, 6-25-2013)
5-7-8: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEES:
   A.   All weeds and combustible material shall be cleared from the location
of the stand, including a distance of at least twenty feet (20') surrounding
the stand.
   B.   "No Smoking" signs shall be prominently displayed on the fireworks
stand.
   C.   Each stand must have an adult in attendance and in charge while
fireworks are stored therein. Sleeping or remaining in stand after close of
business each day is forbidden.
   D.   All unsold stock and accompanying litter shall be removed from the
location by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of July 5.
   E.   The fireworks stand shall be removed from the temporary location by
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on July 7, and all accompanying litter shall be
cleared from said location by said time and date.
   F.   Prior to the issuance of a permit, each applicant shall file with the
business license clerk a cash deposit, certificate of deposit or a surety bond
made payable to the city in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) to assure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such deposit, certificate or
bond shall be refundable upon compliance with the provisions and requirements
of this chapter including, but not limited to, the removal of the stand and the
cleaning of the site. In the event the permittee does not so comply or remove
the stand or clean the site, in the manner required by the building official,
the city may do so, or cause the same to be done by other persons, and the
reasonable cost thereof shall be a charge against the permittee and his deposit
or surety bond. (Ord. 657; amd. 2007 Code)
5-7-9: TEMPORARY SALES TAX PERMIT REQUIRED:
Organizations selling fireworks are required to obtain a temporary sales tax
permit from the state board of equalization. (Ord. 657)
5-7-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSES AND PERMITS:
The state license and city permit to sell fireworks and temporary sales tax
permit shall be displayed in a prominent place in the fireworks stand. (Ord.
657)
5-7-11: STATE FIREWORKS LAW:
The provisions of this chapter shall be construed so as not to conflict with
the state fireworks law. (Ord. 2013-004, 6-25-2013)
5-7-12: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
Any violation of this chapter or other city laws, or the terms and conditions
of the permit, or state laws or administrative regulations, or safety rules of
the fire department, shall be grounds for the immediate revocation of any
permit to sell fireworks issued under this chapter. All officers, agents, and
employees of the organization receiving the permit shall be responsible for
compliance with all the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-004, 6-25-2013)
5-7-13: POSSESSION OR USE OF DANGEROUS FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or use any illegal or dangerous
fireworks within the City as defined by the state fireworks law, section 12500,
et seq., of the California Health and Safety Code, as amended from time to
time, and such other fireworks as may be determined to be dangerous by the
State Fire Marshal. All persons responsible (as defined by Section
1-12-4, subdivision (A), of this Code) for a violation of this Section shall be
personally liable for an administrative fine as provided by Section
1-12-8, subdivision (C), of this Code. (Ord. 2013-004, 6-25-2013; amd. Ord.
2024-006, 4-9-2024)
CHAPTER 8
LOUD OR UNRULY ASSEMBLAGE EXPENSE RECOVERY
SECTION:
5-8-1: Intent
5-8-2: Definitions
5-8-3: Liability For City Expenses
5-8-4: Charge Against Person Liable; Minors
5-8-5: Limit On Liability
5-8-6: Evidence Not Admissible In Criminal Proceedings
5-8-1: INTENT:
   A.   In enacting this chapter, the city council intends to exercise the
authority it has to recover the expense of responding to a loud or unruly
assemblage as provided in Government Code section 53158. This chapter is in
addition to the authority granted by Government Code sections 53150 through
53158.
   B.   The city may elect to proceed under either enactment where both apply.
(Ord. 780, 2-23-1993)
5-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, the following words have the meanings ascribed to them unless
the context otherwise requires:
EXPENSE OF A POLICE RESPONSE: The costs incurred by the city in responding
directly to a loud or unruly assemblage. It includes the cost of providing
police, firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services, together with the
salaries of the responding police personnel, damages and cleanup to city
property, injuries to city personnel and transporting minors to a parental pick
up station.
LOUD OR UNRULY ASSEMBLAGE: The presence of two (2) or more persons who:
   A.   Unlawfully fight;
   B.   Maliciously or wilfully disturb another person by loud and unreasonable
noise;
   C.   Use offensive words in a public place which are inherently likely to
provoke an immediate violent reaction;
   D.   Use force or violence, disturb the public peace or threaten to use
force or violence accompanied by the ability to carry it out;
   E.   Assemble and act together to urge a riot or urge others to commit acts
of force or violence;
   F.   Assemble together to do an unlawful act or to do a lawful act in a
violent, boisterous or tumultuous manner; or
   G.   Assemble together and violate the provisions of section
5-2-1 or
5-2-2 of this title.
PARENTAL PICK UP STATION: The place where minors arrested or detained for
violations of this title are delivered to the custody of their parents or
guardians. (Ord. 780, 2-23-1993)
5-8-3: LIABILITY FOR CITY EXPENSES:
A person who owns or is in control of premises on which a loud or unruly
assemblage occurs or from which a loud or unruly assemblage emanates is liable
for the expense of a police response. (Ord. 780, 2-23-1993)
5-8-4: CHARGE AGAINST PERSON LIABLE; MINORS:
   A.   The expense of police response is a charge against the person liable
for the expense. If the person liable is a minor, the parents or guardian of
the minor are liable. The charge is a debt, and the city may collect the debt
in the same manner as in the case of an obligation under an express or implied
contract. (Ord. 780, 2-23-1993)
   B.   The debt bears interest at the same rate as for judgments in civil
cases. Interest accrues from the due date stated on the billing. (Ord. 780, 2-
23-1993; amd. 2007 Code)
5-8-5: LIMIT ON LIABILITY:
The liability under this chapter for the expense of a police response may not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 780, 2-23-1993)
5-8-6: EVIDENCE NOT ADMISSIBLE IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS:
The testimony, admission or statement made by a person in a proceeding to
collect the expense of a police response is not admissible in a criminal
proceeding arising out of the same incident. (Ord. 780, 2-23-1993)
CHAPTER 9
ADULT ORIENTED MATERIALS
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Display Of Adult Materials Restricted
5-9-3: Violation; Penalty
5-9-4: Public Nuisance
5-9-5: Other Laws
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
ADULT MATERIAL: All material that is defined as "harmful matter" in Penal Code
section 313(a) which is contained or exhibited in magazines, newspapers,
publications, posters, displays, photographs, video recordings or
advertisements (including materials appearing on the covers or wrappers of
merchandise offered for sale or rent to the public). For purposes of this
chapter, "adult material" includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   The complete or partial exposure of the nipple or the areola of the
female breast except the undeveloped nipple or areola of an infant or
prepubescent child;
   B.   The complete or partial exposure of any part of the genitalia, pubic
area or buttocks of either males or females, except the undeveloped nipple or
areola of an infant or prepubescent child;
   C.   The display or depiction of any of the acts or conduct listed in Penal
Code section 311.3(b)(1) through 311.3(b)(6).
This definition of "adult material" does not apply to material contained in any
scientific or photography publication which devotes at least fifty percent
(50%) of the lineage of each edition to articles and advertisements dealing
with the subjects of science or the art of photography. Nor does this
definition apply to any news periodical which reports or describes current
events and which, from time to time, publishes photographs or depictions of
nude or seminude persons when describing current events.
DISPLAY: Exhibiting or exposing adult material so that it is within open view
of patrons, invitees or visitors to the premises where such material is
located, or is visible from any public street, thoroughfare, sidewalk or
pedestrianway, or other residential or business premises. The prohibitions of
this chapter shall not apply to rooms or places from which minors are both
physically and visually excluded by an opaquely covered door or barrier
designed in a way that the adult material is not visible from the doorway or
entrance, whether it is open or closed. "Display" includes the exhibiting of
adult material from news racks or newspaper vending stands or vending machines.
MINORS: Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, limited
liability company or other legal entity. (Ord. 98-02, 3-10-1998)
5-9-2: DISPLAY OF ADULT MATERIALS RESTRICTED:
No person shall display adult material or permit or allow the display of adult
material unless blinder racks or wrappings are placed on or in front of such
materials such that not less than the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the material is
completely and opaquely covered. (Ord. 98-02, 3-10-1998)
5-9-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, whether as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating or
causing the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable as prescribed in this code 1 . Any violation of
this chapter constitutes a separate offense for each and every day during which
such violation is continued, as provided in this code. (Ord. 98-02, 3-10-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
5-9-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the criminal penalty provisions provided by this code, violation
of any section or sections of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance
and may be abated as such by the city 2 . (Ord. 98-02, 3-10-1998)
 
Notes
2 2. See title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
5-9-5: OTHER LAWS:
Nothing herein is intended to supersede any other law or rule contained in
state or local law or to excuse compliance with such laws. (Ord. 98-02, 3-10-
1998)
CHAPTER 10
POLICE AND FIRE ALARMS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Purpose
5-10-2: Exemption
5-10-3: Definitions
5-10-4: Registration Of Alarm Agents
5-10-5: Permits And Permit Applications
5-10-6: Permit Issuance, Renewal And Correction
5-10-7: Permit Denial
5-10-8: Fees And Fines
5-10-9: Prohibited Alarms And Prohibited Uses
5-10-10: Alarm Standards
5-10-11: Penalties
5-10-12: Fines
5-10-13: Appeals
5-10-14: Police Response Suspension
5-10-15: Regulations
5-10-1: PURPOSE:
False activations and the use of defective security alarm systems critically
drain the services and resources of the police department and of the fire
department, and the regulation of security alarm systems will help reduce the
number of false alarms and thus help ensure the maximum availability of
equipment and personnel of the police and fire departments for detecting and
preventing crime and responding to and extinguishing fires within the city.
(Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-2: EXEMPTION:
The provisions of this chapter do not apply either to audible alarms affixed to
automobiles, boats, boat trailers or recreational vehicles, or to household
smoke alarms not monitored by "emergency response personnel", as herein
defined, or to household smoke alarms not monitored by an "alarm agent", as
herein defined, or "panic alarm", as herein defined. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings here
ascribed to them, unless the context otherwise requires:
ALARM AGENT: A person employed by an alarm company operator whose duties
include altering, installing, maintaining, moving, repairing, replacing or
servicing an alarm system.
ALARM COMPANY OPERATOR: A person licensed as an alarm company operator by the
California bureau of security and investigative services, pursuant to the
provisions of Business and Professions Code division 3, chapter 11.6 (starting
at section 7590) and doing business as such within the limits of the city of
Reedley.
ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment and devices arranged to signal the
presence of a hazard or emergency at a particular location requiring the urgent
attention of the police and to which the police are expected to respond. An
alarm system does not include such alarm equipment and devices installed in
vehicles or such alarm equipment and devices used for the detection of fire.
AUTOMATIC DIALING SYSTEM: Any alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice
message or coded signal indicating the existence of an emergency situation that
the alarm system is designed to detect.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PERSONNEL: Any employee or officer either of the police
department or of the fire department of the city.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of the alarm of an alarm system, which activation
constitutes the false reporting of an emergency, whether caused by mechanical
failure, malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of a subscriber
or of a subscriber's employee or agent, provided such activation occasions a
response from emergency response personnel. The term "false alarm" shall not
include the activation of an alarm caused by hurricane, tornado, earthquake or
other condition that is clearly beyond the control of a subscriber.
PANIC ALARM: A manually operated switch or button that sends an alarm intended
to elicit an emergency response by any employee or officer of the police
department of the city to any place from which it is otherwise impractical to
place a telephone call or at which the use of a telephone is unavailable to the
alarm user.
PERMIT APPLICATION: A form established by the city, on which a subscriber must
provide information consisting of the subscriber's name, address, day and night
telephone numbers, location of the premises where an alarm is located, the name
of the company responsible for installing and servicing the alarm, and the
names, phone numbers and addresses of at least two (2) other responsible
parties in case the subscriber cannot be reached upon activation of a
subscriber's alarm. Other information that may be required to be placed on a
permit application, in order to evaluate and act upon the permit application,
shall be prescribed by the chief of police.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, organization, partnership,
limited liability company or corporation.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person, including, but not limited to, the United States of
America, the state of California, any political subdivision of the state of
California, any governmental agency or other public or municipal corporation,
which purchases, leases, contracts for, or otherwise obtains, an alarm system,
or which contracts for the servicing or the maintenance of an alarm system.
(Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-4: REGISTRATION OF ALARM AGENTS:
No person shall engage in the activities of an alarm agent or engage in the
activities of an alarm company operator within the city unless the person meets
the requirements for and obtains a business license and files with the police
department a copy of a valid state issued alarm company operator's license and
a copy of the state issued identification card. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-5: PERMITS AND PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   No subscriber shall, within the city, use or install, or cause to be
used or installed, any alarm system upon any premises within his control
without having first met the requirements for and received an alarm system
permit therefor. An alarm company operator or alarm agent shall, prior to the
installation of an alarm system, provide the person using the alarm with a
permit application form issued by the city. An applicant for an alarm system
permit shall:
      1.   Submit to the police department of the city, or its designee, a
permit application. The police department shall prescribe the form of the
application and shall request such information as is necessary to evaluate and
act upon the permit application.
      2.   Submit a separate alarm permit application form for each premises on
which the applicant proposes to use or install an alarm system.
   B.   Alarms installed within the city prior to the effective date hereof
shall be exempt from this section. All other sections of this chapter shall
apply. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-6: PERMIT ISSUANCE, RENEWAL AND CORRECTION:
   A.   Upon the filing and approval of a permit application form, a permit may
be issued and, when issued, said permit shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of issuance.
   B.   In order to renew a permit, a permit holder or subscriber must file a
new permit application form within sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of
an existing permit.
   C.   Whenever during the period of a permit's validity a change occurs in
the information initially required to be supplied on the application form
therefor, the subscriber or alarm user shall give written notice of such change
to the issuing authority or designee within twenty (20) days of the change.
(Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-7: PERMIT DENIAL:
The city may deny an application for an alarm permit for any one or more of the
following reasons:
   A.   The application for permit does not contain all the information
required by the issuing authority; or
   B.   The information is not submitted on the required application form; or
   C.   The application contains any false or misleading information; or
   D.   The proposed alarm does not meet the standards as set forth in this
chapter; or
   E.   Any other valid reason exists which is determined to present a
potential health or safety hazard to the city, its residents, or its emergency
response personnel. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-8: FEES AND FINES:
   A.   No fee shall be imposed for application for or issuance of a permit for
an alarm.
   B.   Violation of any provision of this chapter with respect to permits,
licenses, prohibited alarms, use of alarms or alarm standards shall cause the
alarm agent, alarm company operator, subscriber or other offending person or
permit holder to be liable for such fines as are imposed by this chapter 1 .
(Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-10-12 of this chapter.
5-10-9: PROHIBITED ALARMS AND PROHIBITED USES:
No person shall, by means of activating an alarm system, report to any
emergency response personnel that an emergency exists knowing that such report
is false. The term "emergency" as used in this section means any condition
which results in, or which could result in, an immediate response by the police
department, by any peace officer or by other emergency response personnel or
any condition which jeopardizes or could jeopardize public safety and which
results in, or could result in, the evacuation of any area, building,
structure, vehicle or any other place which an individual may enter. (Ord. 98-
07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-10: ALARM STANDARDS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any audible alarm to fail to automatically
cease transmission within fifteen (15) minutes of activation.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for an activated alarm to fail to silence after
twenty (20) minutes, and if the police department is unable to contact the
alarm user or his representative, the department shall cause an alarm agent or
alarm company operator to respond and silence the alarm. All costs for
silencing the alarm shall be borne by the alarm user.
   C.   No person shall install or maintain any audible alarm or other alarm
system enunciator which upon activation emits a sound similar either to sirens
used on emergency vehicles or to sirens used for civil defense purposes, except
that alarm systems using such sirens and installed prior to the effective date
of this chapter are exempt.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for automatic dialing systems to dial directly to
the police department.
   E.   Prior to conducting any service, test, repair, maintenance, adjustment,
alteration or installation which might activate a false alarm, alarm users
shall notify the police department communications dispatcher and provide the
dispatcher with a description of the alarm location, identity of the company
testing or otherwise so dealing with the alarm, the identity of the person
testing or otherwise dealing with the alarm, the time of the activity dealing
with the alarm and other information as may be requested by the dispatcher.
   F.   Each subscriber or alarm user shall maintain each alarm system in good
working order, providing the necessary service to prevent false alarms, to
prevent malfunctions and to use reasonable care in preventing malicious
reporting of false fires due to tampering with the alarm system. (Ord. 98-07,
4-28-1998)
5-10-11: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be fined as provided in
this chapter or punished pursuant to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-12: FINES:
A fine payable to the city shall be assessed to a subscriber whose alarm system
generates a false alarm. The fine shall be in accordance with the following
schedule:
   A.   For the first, second or third false alarm during any period of twelve
(12) consecutive months between January 1 to December 31, no fine. The police
department shall send a warning letter to the alarm user upon the occurrence of
each such false alarm.
   B.   For the fourth or fifth false alarm during any period of twelve (12)
consecutive months between January 1 to December 31, a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each such false alarm. The police department shall, in
connection with imposing and demanding payment of the fine, send a warning
letter to the alarm user upon the occurrence of each such false alarm.
   C.   For the sixth and each subsequent false alarm during any period of
twelve (12) consecutive months between January 1 to December 31, a fine of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each such false alarm, except where the
police chief determines upon good cause shown that there are mitigating
circumstances surrounding the false alarm, in which event the chief may reduce
the fine to less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such false alarm.
The police department shall, in connection with imposing and demanding payment
of any such fine or reduced fine, send an appropriate warning letter to the
alarm user upon the occurrence of each such false alarm.
   D.   All fines imposed by this section shall be collected in accordance with
the following regulations:
      1.   The warning letters required by subsection A of this section shall
state that upon the occurrence of a fourth and fifth false alarm during the
twelve (12) month period following the first false alarm, a civil fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be imposed for each such false alarm, and that
the city is authorized to recover the penalty without an administrative hearing
or through a civil lawsuit, and that the subscriber whose alarm system
generated such false alarms shall have the right to request an administrative
hearing to determine whether such fine shall be paid in full, or for good cause
shown paid in a reduced amount, or whether the fine shall be suspended.
      2.   The warning letters required by subsections B and C of this section
shall state that upon the occurrence of a fifth false alarm during the twelve
(12) month period following the first false alarm, a civil fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be imposed for each such false alarm; that upon the
occurrence of a sixth and subsequent false alarms during the twelve (12) month
period following the first false alarm, a civil fine of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) shall be imposed for each such false alarm; and that the city
is authorized to recover the penalty without an administrative hearing or
through a civil lawsuit, and the subscriber whose alarm system generated such
false alarms shall have the right to request an administrative hearing to
determine whether such fine shall be paid in full, or for good cause shown paid
in a reduced amount, or whether the fine shall be suspended. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-
1998)
5-10-13: APPEALS:
In order to prevent or lessen the unnecessary hardship or practical
difficulties in exceptional cases where it is difficult or impossible to comply
with the strict letter of this chapter, the alarm user and/or subscriber or
designated agent shall have the option to apply for an exemption from any
provisions of this chapter to the city manager or his designee. The city
manager or designee shall exercise those powers on these matters in such a way
that the public welfare is secured and substantial justice done most nearly in
accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-14: POLICE RESPONSE SUSPENSION:
   A.   Provided the conditions of subsection B of this section exist, the
police department may, when it is consistent with public safety and welfare,
indefinitely suspend its alarm response to a given address in any one of the
following cases:
      1.   If a person violates section
5-10-9 of this chapter; or
      2.   If the person responsible for a premises is fined for a false alarm
and fails to timely pay the fine; or
      3.   If an alarm location has been fined more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for false alarms during any period of thirty six (36) consecutive
months.
   B.   No suspension pursuant to this section shall be effectuated until after
the responsible party at an alarm location is given an opportunity for a
hearing with the chief of police, or his designee, as to why police response
should not be discontinued, with such decision being appealable pursuant to
section
5-10-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
5-10-15: REGULATIONS:
The chief of police, with approval of the city manager, may adopt such rules
and regulations as are consistent with this chapter, necessary or appropriate
to reduce or eliminate the occurrence of false alarms. (Ord. 98-07, 4-28-1998)
CHAPTER 11
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
SECTION:
5-11-1: Title
5-11-2: Definitions
5-11-3: Operative Date
5-11-4: Purpose
5-11-5: Transactions Tax Rate
5-11-6: Place Of Sale
5-11-7: Use Tax Rate
5-11-8: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
5-11-9: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes
5-11-10: Permit Not Required
5-11-11: Exemptions And Exclusions
5-11-12: Permissible Uses
5-11-13: Amendments
5-11-14: Enjoining Collection Forbidden
5-11-15: Severability
5-11-16: Contract With State
5-11-17: Decennial Review
5-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF REEDLEY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated
territory of the City of Reedley. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CITY: Means the City of Reedley.
TAX: Means the Transactions and Use Taxes imposed under the provisions of this
chapter.
TAX REVENUE AND TAX REVENUES: Mean all proceeds of the tax received by the City
from the State Board of Equalization. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-3: OPERATIVE DATE:
"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than one hundred ten (110) days after the adoption of this chapter. (Ord.
2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-4: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:
   A.   To impose a retail Transactions and Use Tax in accordance with the
provisions of part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.91 of part 1.7 of division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this chapter which shall be effective if a two-
thirds (2/3) majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.
   B.   To adopt a retail Transactions and Use Tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   C.   To adopt a retail Transactions and Use Tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.
   D.   To adopt a retail Transactions and Use Tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the Transactions and Use Taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of recordkeeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-5: TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at
the rate of 0.50 percent (1/2 of 1 percent) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-
2007)
5-11-6: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-State destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-State destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the State Sales and Use Tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-
2007)
5-11-7: USE TAX RATE:
An Excise Tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of 0.50 percent (1/2 of 1 percent) of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to State Sales or Use Tax regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-8: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of part 1 (commencing with section 6001)
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-
2007)
5-11-9: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:
In adopting the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:
   A.   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
      1.   The word "State" is used as part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasure, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.
      2.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
      3.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
         a.   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of part 1
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;
         b.   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the State under the said provisions of that code.
      4.   In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   B.   The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in section 6203. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-10: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-11: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   There shall be excluded from the measure of the Transactions Tax and
the Use Tax the amount of any Sales Tax or Use Tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-
administered Transactions or Use Tax.
   B.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of Transactions
Tax the gross receipts from:
      1.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
      2.   Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:
         a.   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of
division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and
         b.   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      3.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this chapter.
      4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this chapter.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections B3 and B4 of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   C.   There are exempted from the Use Tax imposed by this chapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:
      1.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
Transactions Tax under any State-administered Transactions and Use Tax
ordinance.
      2.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.
      3.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
chapter.
      4.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this chapter.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections C3 and C4 of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      6.   Except as provided in subsection C7 of this section, a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect Use Tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.
      7.   "A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under division 3.5 (commencing with
section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
Use Tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.
   D.   Any person subject to Use Tax under this chapter may credit against
that tax any Transactions Tax or reimbursement for Transactions Tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a Transactions Tax pursuant to part
1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the Use Tax. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-12: PERMISSIBLE USES:
Expenditure plan:
   A.   The revenues of the tax shall only be used to fund the following uses
and purposes. The "Five Year Expenditure Plan" which is on file in the City as
exhibit A illustrates revenues and expenditures for the initial five (5) year
period after the effective date of the tax. Funding with tax revenues of all
other uses and purposes, except as provided in subsection C of this section, is
prohibited.
      1.   Police:
         a.   Police patrol services;
         b.   Police traffic control services;
         c.   Gang enforcement, school resource services, and bicycle patrol;
         d.   Police support services, including facilities and equipment and
the financing thereof;
         e.   Competitive salary, retention and benefit compensation for police
personnel;
         f.   Funding new Police Department personnel.
      2.   Fire:
         a.   Construction and relocation (including, but not limited to, land
acquisition, facilities design, and use of temporary facilities) of fire
stations and the financing thereof;
         b.   Purchase of specialized equipment for Fire Department;
         c.   Competitive salary, retention and benefit compensation for fire
personnel;
         d.   Comprehensive Fire Prevention Program;
         e.   Funding new Fire Department personnel.
   B.   Of the tax revenues received by the City, seventy percent (70%) shall
be expended for police purposes as specified in subsections A1a through A1f of
this section, thirty percent (30%) shall be expended for fire purposes as
specified in subsections A2a through A2e of this section. The foregoing
percentage allocations shall be reviewed or changed annually following the
recommendation of the Citizens Oversight Committee and the approval of the
Council.
   C.   Funding of the Expenditure Plan may not be below the actual revenues
received from the tax nor shall tax revenues be used to replace or supplant
expenditures or programs funded by the City General Fund prior to the approval
of the special tax, unless the Council finds that:
      1.   Preservation of public safety requires the expenditure; and
      2.   There is no other feasible way of funding the expenditure.
   D.   The Council, by resolution, shall establish a five (5) member Citizen
Oversight Committee to annually review expenditures and appropriations of the
tax revenues to ensure that all such revenues are spent or appropriated for the
purposes and uses set forth in subsections A and C of this section, in
accordance with the allocation percentages set forth in subsection B of this
section. The Citizens Oversight Committee shall also be authorized to make
recommendations to the City Council regarding the allocation percentages set
forth in subsection B of this section.
Each member of the Council shall appoint one member of the committee who shall
have a term coinciding with the term of the appointing Council member. Each
committee member shall be a resident of the City at the time of appointment and
shall remain a resident of the City while serving on the committee. The Mayor
shall appoint the Chairperson of the committee subject to the approval of the
majority of the Council. The committee shall receive the assistance of City
staff and shall issue an annual public report on the expenditures and
appropriations of the tax revenues. The committee shall undertake such
additional duties as the Council may designate. Except as otherwise provided in
this subsection D, the committee and its members shall be subject to the
provisions of title 2, chapter 1 of this Code, beginning with section
2-1-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-13: AMENDMENTS:
All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to part 1 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to Sales and Use Taxes and
which are not inconsistent with part 1.6 and part 1.7 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to part 1.6 and part 1.7 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-14: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code; of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.
2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-15: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-16: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this chapter; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
5-11-17: DECENNIAL REVIEW:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be reviewed by the Citizens Oversight
Committee and the City Council every ten (10) years. (Ord. 2007-05, 11-7-2007)
CHAPTER 12
GRAFFITI ABATEMENT
SECTION:
5-12-1: Authority And Purpose
5-12-2: Definitions
5-12-3: Graffiti Prohibited
5-12-4: Nuisance
5-12-5: Accessibility To Graffiti Implements Restricted
5-12-6: Sale, Furnishing, Or Purchasing Graffiti Implements; Persons Under The
Age Of Eighteen Years; Possession Of Graffiti Implements
5-12-7: Parental Responsibility
5-12-8: Standards For Graffiti Removal
5-12-9: Ease Of Removal Provisions
5-12-10: Use Of City Funds To Abate Graffiti
5-12-11: Liability For Expense Of Abatement
5-12-12: Penalty For Violation; Other Code Enforcement Methods; Cumulative
Remedies
5-12-13: Procedures For Special Assessment
5-12-14: Severability
5-12-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
The city council of the city of Reedley finds and declares that graffiti on
public or private property and real or personal property is a public nuisance
tending to reduce the value of such property, promoting blight and
deterioration of surrounding property, and inviting further vandalism,
resulting in loss of pride in affected neighborhoods and loss of business to
neighboring commercial enterprises. The city council also finds and declares
that there is a need for effective graffiti abatement and enforcement of
graffiti violations in the city of Reedley. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
AEROSOL CONTAINER: Any aerosol based container which is capable of spraying
indelible paint, ink, dye, or other substance capable of defacing property.
ETCHING MATERIAL: Any etching tool, chemical, paste, or similar material which
is capable of being used to etch glass.
EXPENSE OF ABATEMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, court costs, attorney
fees, costs of removal of the graffiti or other inscribed material, costs of
repair and replacement of defaced property, costs of administering and
monitoring the participation of a responsible person and his/her parent(s)/
guardian(s) in a graffiti abatement program, and the law enforcement costs
incurred by the city of Reedley in identifying and apprehending the responsible
person(s) or otherwise the cause of contributing or aiding and abetting in the
placement of graffiti or other inscribed material.
FELT TIP MARKER: Any indelible marker or similar device with a tip containing
ink, dye, or other substance that is not water soluble and, which when used or
applied to a surface, is capable of resulting in a mark at least one-eighth (1/
8) of an inch wide at its widest point.
GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: Any felt tip marker, etching material, paint stick, or
aerosol container which contains paint, ink, dye, or any other substance that
is not water soluble and is capable of resulting in the placement of graffiti
upon any surface or substance, including, but not limited to, glass, metal,
concrete, wood, or plastic.
GRAFFITI OR INSCRIBED MATERIAL: Any inscription, word(s), figure(s), mark(s),
or design(s) whether written, marked, etched, scratched, drawn, or painted on
any real or personal public or private property in the city without the
permission of the owner and which is visible from a public right of way or any
neighboring property.
MINOR: A person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OWNER: The owner of record of the property as set forth in the records of the
county tax assessor.
PAINT STICK: A device containing a solid form of paint, chalk, epoxy, or other
similar substance capable of being applied to a surface by pressure, and upon
application, leaving a mark at least one-eighth (1/8) of an inch in width,
visible from a distance of twenty feet (20'), and not water soluble.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any person violating this chapter or any person who has
confessed to, admitted to or pled nolo contendere to a violation of section
594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6 or 640.7 of the Penal Code, or a person convicted by
final judgment of a violation of section 594, 594.3, 640.5 or 640.7 of the
Penal Code, or a minor declared a ward of the juvenile court pursuant to
section 602 of the Welfare And Institutions Code by reason of the commission of
an act prohibited by section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6 or 640.7 of the Penal
Code. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-3: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to apply graffiti to any
wall, rock, street, bridge, building, fence, gate, tree, utility box or pole,
bench, sign, or other real or personal property within the city. (Ord. 2016-
003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-4: NUISANCE:
Graffiti on public or private property, either real or personal, constitutes a
public nuisance. This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of graffiti as a
nuisance within the city; it supplements and is in addition to other provisions
of this code and any other applicable law. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-5: ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Display Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, organization, or business engaged in a commercial enterprise
within the city of Reedley to store, stock, keep, or display for sale, trade,
give away, or exchange any graffiti implement except in an area from which
access by the public is securely precluded without employee assistance.
Acceptable methods for displaying graffiti implements for sale shall be by
containment in: 1) a completely enclosed cabinet or other storage device which
shall, at all times except during access by authorized representatives, remain
securely locked; or 2) an enclosed area behind a sales or service counter from
which the public is precluded from entry; or 3) a completely enclosed cabinet
or similar enclosed storage device which is within thirty feet (30') and in
plain view of a permanently staffed counter or station. Nothing in this chapter
shall relieve such person or business entity from complying at all times with
the requirements of California Penal Code section 594.1(c) by posting signs as
described therein.
   B.   Storage Requirements: No person or business engaged in the business of
selling, providing or trading graffiti implements shall store any graffiti
implement except in an area inaccessible to the public. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-
2016)
5-12-6: SALE, FURNISHING, OR PURCHASING GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS; PERSONS UNDER THE
AGE OF EIGHTEEN YEARS; POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, organization, or
business engaged in a commercial enterprise, except a parent or legal guardian
as to their own child or ward, to sell, give away, trade, exchange, or in any
way furnish to another person, who is in fact under the age of eighteen (18)
years, any graffiti implement without first obtaining bona fide evidence of
majority and identity. For the purposes of this section "bona fide evidence of
majority and identity" is any document evidencing the age and identity of an
individual that has been issued by a federal, state, or local government
entity, and includes, but is not limited to, a driver's license, a registration
certificate issued under the federal selective service act, or an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
purchase any graffiti implement.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person regardless of age, to possess, with the
intent to deface any property, any graffiti implement, any pressurized
container designed to propel liquid, any spray activator capable of being
attached to an aerosol paint container, or any etching tool as defined by
California Penal Code section 594.2(a) or any other device capable of scarring
glass, metal, concrete or wood, while on a public highway, street, alley, or
way, or any other public place, regardless of whether that such person is or is
not in any automobile, vehicle, or other conveyance. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-7: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Pursuant to Civil Code section 1714.1(b), where graffiti is applied by a minor,
the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of the minor shall be jointly and severally
liable for the payment of civil damages resulting from the minor's misconduct
in an amount not to exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each
offense. If a minor is personally unable to pay an administrative fine for acts
prohibited by this chapter, the parent(s) or guardian(s) in custody or control
of said minor shall be liable for the payment of the fine. The city manager may
waive payment of the fine or any part thereof by the parent(s) or guardian(s)
upon a finding of good cause. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-8: STANDARDS FOR GRAFFITI REMOVAL:
Graffiti shall be removed or completely covered in a manner that renders it
inconspicuous. When graffiti is painted over, the color used to paint over it
shall reasonably match the original color of the surface, or the surface shall
be completely repainted with a new color that is aesthetically compatible with
existing colors and architecture. The removal shall not leave shadows and shall
not follow the pattern of the graffiti such that letters or similar shapes
remain apparent on the surface after graffiti markings have been removed. If
the area is heavily covered with graffiti, the entire surface shall be
repainted.
It is unlawful for any owner of real property located in the city, and for any
tenant, occupant, or user of real property therein, to maintain, permit, or
allow graffiti to exist thereon, for longer than forty eight (48) hours. (Ord.
2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-9: EASE OF REMOVAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Common Utility Colors And Paint Type: Any gas, telephone, water, sewer,
cable, and other utilities operating in the city, other than an electric
utility, shall paint their above surface metal fixtures, that are installed
after the effective date hereof, with a uniform paint type and color as
directed by the city manager or designee, unless otherwise authorized by the
city.
   B.   Land Use Entitlement Conditions: In approving subdivision maps,
conditional use permits, variances, building permits, or other similar land use
entitlement or development or design applications, the city may impose one or
all of the following conditions, or other similar or related conditions:
      1.   Use of antigraffiti materials on surfaces exposed to public view of
a type and nature that is acceptable to the city manager or designee.
      2.   Use of landscaping to screen or provide a barrier to surfaces that
may be prone to graffiti.
      3.   Right of access by city to remove graffiti.
      4.   Applicants, permittees, and all successors in interest shall provide
city with sufficient matching paint and/or antigraffiti material on demand for
use in painting over or removal of graffiti.
      5.   Applicants, permittees, and all persons applying for subdivision
maps shall, as part of any conditions, covenants and restrictions, covenant
that the owners of the lots shall remove any graffiti in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Encroachment Permit Conditions: All encroachment permits issued by the
city may, among other things, be conditioned on any one or more of the
following:
      1.   Use of antigraffiti materials on surfaces exposed to public view of
a type and nature that is acceptable to the city manager or designee.
      2.   Use of landscaping to screen or provide a barrier to the encroaching
object.
      3.   The right of the city to remove the graffiti or to paint the
encroaching object or structure.
      4.   Permittee shall provide city with sufficient matching paint and/or
antigraffiti material on demand for use in painting over or removal of graffiti
on the encroaching object or structure.
      5.   Permittee shall remove all graffiti in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Community Education: The city manager or designee may conduct regular
programs to provide community education regarding the prevention of graffiti in
coordination with local businesses. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-10: USE OF CITY FUNDS TO ABATE GRAFFITI:
   A.   Pursuant to Government Code section 53069.3, the city is hereby
authorized to use city funds to remove graffiti or other inscribed material
from publicly or privately owned real or personal property located within the
city and to replace or repair public or privately owned property within the
city that has been defaced with graffiti or other inscribed material that
cannot be removed cost effectively.
   B.   The city may use city funds only for the removal of the graffiti or
other inscribed material itself, or, if the graffiti or other inscribed
material cannot be removed cost effectively, the repair or replacement of the
portion of the property that was defaced, and not the painting, repair, or
replacement of other parts of the property that were not defaced.
   C.   The removal, repair, or replacement may be performed, in the case of
publicly owned real or personal property, only after securing the consent of
the public entity having jurisdiction over the property, and in the case of
privately owned real or personal property, only after securing the consent of
the owner or possessor. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-11: LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Recovery Of Abatement Costs: Pursuant to Government Code section 38772
(a) each responsible person shall be responsible to the city for the expense of
abatement. The city may seek to recover the expense of abatement by any means
authorized by law, including, but not limited to, imposing a special assessment
against property owned by the responsible person in accordance with the
procedures set forth in section
5-12-13 of this chapter.
   B.   Parents Liable For Expense Of Abatement: Pursuant to Government Code
section 38772(b) a minor and the parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and
control of said minor are jointly and severally liable to the city for the
expense of abatement. The expense of abatement may become a special assessment
against the property owned by the minor and/or the property owned by the parent
(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the minor. The procedures set
forth in section
5-12-13 of this chapter shall be followed for the imposition of a special
assessment lien.
   C.   Recovery Of Damages: Alternatively, the city may seek recovery of
damages, including the expense of abatement, pursuant to Civil Code section
1714.1(b), jointly and severally against the parent(s) or guardian having
custody and control of a minor whose act of wilful misconduct resulted in the
defacement of property of another with paint or similar substance.
   D.   Preservation Of Evidence: The police department may promulgate
procedures for the preremoval preservation of sufficient evidence of the
graffiti or other inscribed material for criminal prosecution or proceedings.
Said procedures shall be followed by the city prior to or during removal of the
graffiti or other inscribed material. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-12: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION; OTHER CODE ENFORCEMENT METHODS; CUMULATIVE
REMEDIES:
   A.   Enforcement: A violation of this chapter is punishable as set forth
below; provided, however, nothing in this chapter precludes the city from using
any other available method to enforce the provisions of this chapter or other
provisions of this code. The procedures set forth in this chapter are not
exclusive and nothing contained herein shall be deemed to preclude the city
from initiating any civil or criminal action or from pursuing any available
remedy.
   B.   Alternative Penalties Available: Whenever deemed appropriate by the
police chief or designee, the following alternative penalties may be utilized
upon conviction:
      1.   Performance of not less than twenty (20) hours and not more than one
hundred (100) hours of community service. Community service includes graffiti
removal service.
      2.   At least one of the custodial parents, or if none, at least one of
the custodial guardians, shall be in attendance with the defendant at least
fifty percent (50%) of the period of assigned community service.
      3.   That the defendant personally clean up, repair, or replace the
damaged property.
      4.   The entire period of community service shall be performed under the
supervision of a community service provider approved by the police chief or
designee.
      5.   Any other police diversion program approved by the police chief or
designee, including, but not limited to, restorative justice. (Ord. 2016-003,
8-23-2016)
5-12-13: PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Application: This section and the imposition of a special assessment
shall apply to any responsible person including a minor, and the parent(s) or
legal guardian(s) having custody and control of the minor. For purposes of this
section the terms "graffiti", "expense of abatement", "minor", and "responsible
person" have the same meaning as specified in section
5-12-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Account Of Abatement Costs: The city shall keep an itemized account of
the expense of abatement incurred by the city in the abatement of graffiti
pursuant to section
5-12-8 of this chapter. Upon completion of the abatement work, the city shall
prepare a billing statement which:
      1.   Specifies the work done, the itemized costs of the work for each
property from which the graffiti was abated, including direct and indirect
costs.
      2.   Describes the real property from which the graffiti was abated.
      3.   Includes the names and addresses of the responsible person(s) for
the expense of abatement, including the names and addresses of the parent(s)/
guardian(s) of the minor.
      4.   Advises those named in the billing statement that failure to pay the
expense of abatement within sixty (60) days of its mailing may result in a
special assessment, in the amount stated in the billing statement, against any
real property owned by the minor or his/her parent(s)/guardian(s).
      5.   Advises that each person named in the billing statement shall be
jointly and severally liable for the expense of abatement and the amount of
such costs shall be a debt owed to the city.
      6.   Advises that any objection to the billing statement, including the
amount billed or the imposition of a special assessment must be raised prior to
the expiration of sixty (60) days from the date the billing statement is
mailed, and identifies the city department wherein the objection is to be
raised.
The billing statement shall be mailed by regular first class mail to the
responsible person for the graffiti and to the parent(s)/guardian(s) of any
minor who is a responsible person if the address of said parent(s)/guardian(s)
is known. It shall be presumed that a billing statement correctly addressed and
properly mailed has been received in the ordinary course of mail.
   C.   Objection To Billing Statement: Upon receipt of any timely objection to
a billing statement, the city shall schedule an assessment hearing before the
city manager or designee to hear any objections and determine the
appropriateness of the billing statement and approve imposition of the special
assessment. Notice of the date, time and place of the assessment hearing shall
be provided to the party requesting the hearing at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing. Upon requesting a hearing, the city shall stay all
efforts to collect the amount billed, including the imposition of an
assessment, until final determination of the hearing.
   D.   Procedure For Special Assessment:
      1.   When any charges levied pursuant to this chapter remain unpaid for a
period of sixty (60) days or more after the date on which they were mailed,
except when an objection is timely made and hearing scheduled, the city, in its
discretion, may make the expense of abatement a special assessment against a
parcel of land owned by the minor or the parent/guardian having custody of the
minor. If an objection to the billing statement is timely made and a hearing
requested, the city may, in its discretion, after a determination approving a
special assessment has become final, make the expense of abatement a special
assessment against a parcel of land owned by the responsible person or the
parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the minor if the
responsible person is a minor.
      2.   At the time the assessment is imposed, the city must notify the
property owner affected by the special assessment by certified mail. Such
notice shall substantially comply with the following form:
NOTICE OF LIEN
Pursuant to the authority vested in the City of Reedley by the provisions of
Title 5, Chapter 12 of the Reedley Municipal Code and Government Code Sections
38772 and 53069.3, the City did on or about the                 day of
               , 20        , cause the abatement of graffiti on public or
private, real or personal property. The responsible person, minor, or the
minor's parent(s) or guardian(s) if the responsible person is a minor, is the
record owner of the real property described herein, and the City of Reedley
hereby imposes a special assessment upon the real property hereinafter
described, in the amount of $        , pursuant to Section
5-12-13 of the Reedley Municipal Code and Government Code Section 38773.6 for
the expense of abatement. The same has not been paid nor any part thereof, and
the City of Reedley does hereby claim a lien on said real property for the
expense of abatement in the amount of said special assessment, and the same
shall be a lien upon said real property until the sum has been paid in full and
discharged of record. The real property hereinafter described may be sold after
three (3) years by the tax collector for unpaid delinquent assessments.
The real property hereinafter described, and upon which a lien is claimed, is
that certain parcel of land lying and being in the City of Reedley, County of
Fresno, State of California, and particularly described as follows:
(DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY)
Dated: This          day of           , 20      
CITY CLERK
      3.   Immediately upon the recording of the notice of lien the assessment
shall constitute a lien on the real property assessed. Such lien shall, for all
purposes, be upon a parity with the lien of state, county and city taxes.
      4.   The notice of lien shall also be delivered to the auditor of Fresno
County, who shall enter the amount thereof on the county assessment book
opposite the description of the particular property and the amount shall be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes
are collected and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedures and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ordinary municipal
taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of
municipal taxes shall be applicable to the special assessment. However, if any
real property to which the abatement and related administrative costs relates
has been transferred or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a
lien of a bona fide encumbrancer for value has been created and attaches
thereon prior to the date on which the first installment of the taxes would
become delinquent, then the abatement and related administrative costs shall
not result in a lien against the real property but shall be transferred to the
unsecured roll for collection. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
5-12-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, clause or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The city council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this chapter and each section, subsection,
sentence, phrase, clause and portion hereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases, or clauses be declared
invalid. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
CHAPTER 13
MARIJUANA
SECTION:
5-13-1: Purpose And Intent
5-13-2: Definitions
5-13-3: Personal Cultivation And Personal Use Generally Prohibited
5-13-4: Regulations Applicable To The Cultivation Of Medical Marijuana
5-13-5: Regulations Applicable To The Cultivation Of Recreational Marijuana
5-13-6: Regulations Applicable To Commercial Marijuana Operations,
Dispensaries, And Deliveries
5-13-7: Regulations Applicable To The Consumption Of Marijuana
5-13-8: Public Nuisance
5-13-9: Penalties And Enforcement
5-13-10: Severability
5-13-11: Judicial Review
5-13-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to promote the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the residents and businesses within the City by
regulating the cultivation, processing, extraction, manufacturing, testing,
storing, distribution, transportation, delivery, sale, and consumption of
marijuana, whether for medical purposes or recreational or adult use as
currently allowed under State law. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
5-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
AUMA: Means the Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Act approved
by California voters as Proposition 64 on November 8, 2016.
ACT: Means the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act, now called the
Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act ("MCRSA"), including implementing
regulations, as the Act and implementing regulations may be amended from time
to time. The terms Act, MCRSA, Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act,
Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act, may be used interchangeably, but
shall have the same meaning.
CANNABIS OR MARIJUANA: Shall have the meaning set forth in California Business
and Professions Code section 26001, as that section may be amended from time to
time. Cannabis and marijuana may be used interchangeably, but shall have the
same meaning.
COLLECTIVE OR COOPERATIVE CULTIVATION: Means the association within California
of qualified patients, persons with valid identification cards, and designated
primary care givers to cultivate marijuana for medical purposes as may be
allowed under the Compassionate Use Act, the Medical Marijuana Program Act, or
the California Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act adopted on October 9,
2015 with legislative bills AB 243, AB 266, and SB 643.
COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA OPERATION: Means any commercial cannabis activity as set
forth in California Business and Professions Code section 26001(k), as that
section may be amended from time to time, and allowed under the Act, and all
uses permitted under any subsequently enacted State law pertaining to the same
or similar uses for adult use cannabis.
CULTIVATION: Shall be defined in accordance with the AUMA, the MCRSA, the
MAUCRSA, Business and Professions Code section 26001, as that section may be
amended from time to time, and other applicable State laws.
CULTIVATION AREA: Means a fully enclosed and secure area within a private
residence or accessory structure to a private residence that is located on the
same parcel as the private residence that is used for personal cultivation, and
which has a complete and solid roof supported by connecting walls extending
from the ground to the roof which is secure against unauthorized entry, is not
accessible by minors, provides complete visual screening, and is accessible
only through one or more lockable points of entry.
DELIVERY: Shall have the same meaning set forth in California Business and
Professions Code section 26001(p), as that section may be amended from time to
time, and includes the commercial transfer of cannabis, medicinal cannabis, or
cannabis products to a customer, as well as the use of any technology platform
that enables any person to arrange for or facilitate the transfer.
MAUCRSA: Means the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act
found in Business and Professions Code section 26000, et seq.
MARIJUANA DISPENSARY OR DISPENSARY: Means any facility, establishment, or
location, whether fixed or mobile, and any building or structure, where
cannabis is made available to, distributed by, or distributed to more than two
(2) persons.
MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Means cannabis that has undergone a process whereby the
plant material has been transformed into a concentrate, including, but not
limited to, concentrated cannabis, or an edible or topical product containing
cannabis or concentrated cannabis and other ingredients. "Marijuana products"
includes the definition of "cannabis products" and may be used interchangeably,
but shall have the same meaning.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA OR MEDICAL MARIJUANA USE: Means the use of cannabis for
medical or medicinal purposes as set forth in the Compassionate Use Act and the
Medical Marijuana Program Act, California Health and Safety Code sections
11362.5 and 11362.7 et seq.
PERSONAL CULTIVATION: Means the personal non-commercial cultivation of cannabis
by an individual twenty one (21) years of age or older for personal use in a
proper cultivation area. Personal cultivation shall include the non-commercial
actions of planting, growing, harvesting, drying and processing cannabis for
personal use. All personal cultivation shall be subject to the regulations
imposed by the AUMA and this Code.
PERSONAL CULTIVATION PERMIT: Means a City permit to cultivate cannabis for
personal use pursuant to the terms and conditions of this chapter and the
conditions of approval for the permit.
PERSONAL CULTIVATION PERMITTEE: Means an applicant who has applied for and has
been issued a personal cultivation permit by the City pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this chapter.
PERSONAL USE OR ADULT USE: Means the smoking, consumption, or ingestion of
cannabis or cannabis products by an individual twenty one (21) years of age or
older. Personal use and adult use may be used interchangeably, but shall have
the same meaning, and includes cannabis consumption by means of vaporizers and
electronic cigarettes.
PRIVATE RESIDENCE: Means a house, apartment unit, condominium, mobile home or
similar dwelling.
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA OR RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA USE OR ADULT USE: Means all
uses of cannabis not included within the definition of medical marijuana use.
Recreational and adult use may be used interchangeably, but shall have the same
meaning. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
5-13-3: PERSONAL CULTIVATION AND PERSONAL USE GENERALLY PROHIBITED:
All personal cultivation and personal use of cannabis within the City is
prohibited except as expressly permitted by this chapter. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-
2018)
5-13-4: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE CULTIVATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA:
To the extent that the City is required to allow the cultivation of medical
marijuana under State law, the rules set forth herein shall apply. Nothing in
this section shall be interpreted to permit commercial marijuana operations or
marijuana dispensaries otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
   A.   Personal Use Cultivation: An individual qualified patient or person
with an identification card shall be allowed to cultivate medical marijuana
within his/her private residence, in an attached garage, or in an accessory
building if the property is detached single family residential. The cultivation
of medical marijuana outdoors is prohibited. A primary caregiver may only
cultivate medical marijuana at the residence of a qualified patient or person
with an identification card for whom he/she is the primary caregiver. Medical
marijuana cultivation for personal use shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   Area: The medical marijuana cultivation area shall not exceed twenty
four (24) square feet measured by the canopy and not exceed eight feet (8') in
height per residence. This limit applies regardless of the number of qualified
patients or persons with an identification card residing in the residence. The
cultivation area shall be a single designated area.
      2.   Lighting: Medical marijuana cultivation lighting shall not exceed a
total of one thousand two hundred (1,200) watts.
      3.   Building Code Requirements: Any alterations or additions to the
residence, including garages and accessory buildings, shall be subject to
applicable Building and Fire Codes, including plumbing and electrical, and all
applicable Zoning Codes, including lot coverage, setback, height requirements,
and parking requirements.
      4.   Gas Products: The use of gas products (CO2, butane, propane, etc.)
for medical marijuana cultivation or processing is prohibited.
      5.   Evidence Of Cultivation: The cultivation of medical marijuana
outdoors is prohibited. From a public right-of-way, there shall be no exterior
evidence of medical marijuana cultivation occurring on the site.
      6.   Residence: The qualified patient or person with an identification
card shall reside in the private residence where the medical marijuana
cultivation occurs.
      7.   Cultivation Elsewhere In City: The qualified patient or person with
an identification card shall not participate in medical marijuana cultivation
in any other location within the City of Reedley.
      8.   Incidental Use: The residence shall maintain kitchen, bathrooms, and
primary bedrooms for their intended use and not be used primarily for medical
marijuana cultivation.
      9.   Ventilation: The medical marijuana cultivation area shall include a
ventilation and filtration system designed to ensure that odors from the
cultivation are not detectable beyond the residence, or property line for
detached single family residential, and designed to prevent mold and moisture
and otherwise protect the health and safety of persons residing in the
residence and cultivating the marijuana. This shall include at a minimum, a
system meeting the requirements of the current, adopted edition of the
California Building Code section 1203.4 Natural Ventilation or section 402.3
Mechanical Ventilation (or its equivalent(s)).
      10.   Storage Of Chemicals: Any chemicals used for medical marijuana
cultivation shall be stored outside of the habitable areas of the residence and
outside of public view from neighboring properties and public rights-of-way.
      11.   Nuisance: The medical marijuana cultivation area must not adversely
affect the health or safety of the nearby residents by creating dust, glare,
heat, noise, noxious gasses, odor, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other impacts;
and must not be hazardous due to the use or storage of materials, processes,
products or wastes, or from other actions related to the cultivation.
      12.   Property Owner Authorization: For rental property, the lessee shall
obtain written authorization from the property owner or property management
company to cultivate medical marijuana at the residence.
      13.   Notification: The owner and any lessee of the residence upon which
cultivation will occur shall inform the Police Department of the intent to
cultivate medical marijuana and pick up a handout setting forth the owner and
lessee responsibilities under this chapter. This notification shall be provided
prior to the commencement of the cultivation. The Police Department may direct
the owner and lessee to the Community Development Department for more
information about Building Code and permit requirements that may be applicable
if alterations or additions to the residence are contemplated. The Police
Department and Community Development Department shall keep qualified patient
information confidential to the extent required by law.
      14.   Additional Requirements For Garages And Accessory Buildings: The
following additional requirements shall apply for personal use cultivation that
occurs in a garage or accessory building:
         a.   The garage or accessory building shall be secure, locked, and
fully enclosed, with a ceiling, roof or top, and entirely opaque.
         b.   The garage or accessory building, including all walls, doors, and
the roof, shall be constructed with a firewall assembly of green board meeting
the minimum Building Code requirements for residential structures and include
material strong enough to prevent entry except through an open door.
      15.   Posting Of Physician Recommendation Or Identification Card; Posting
Of Owner Permission: A copy of a qualified patient physician recommendation or
identification card shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the cultivation
area for each patient residing in the residence that is cultivating medical
marijuana. For rental properties, a copy of the owner's written authorization
to cultivate marijuana shall be posted in the same manner.
   B.   Collective Or Cooperative Cultivation: The collective or cooperative
cultivation of medical marijuana is prohibited in the City. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-
25-2018)
5-13-5: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE CULTIVATION OF RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA:
To the extent that the City is required to allow the cultivation of
recreational marijuana under State law, the rules set forth herein shall apply.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to permit commercial marijuana
operations or marijuana dispensaries otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
   A.   State Law Limits: The cultivation of recreational marijuana shall be
subject to the limits set forth in any applicable State law.
   B.   Compliance With Medical Marijuana Personal Use Cultivation Rules: All
persons lawfully allowed to cultivate recreational use marijuana in the City
under State law shall be subject to the same rules, requirements, limitations
and regulations applicable to the personal use cultivation of medical marijuana
set forth in this chapter, and shall also obtain and maintain a personal
cultivation permit and comply with all the requirements for obtaining and
maintaining a personal cultivation permit as provided in subsection C of this
section.
   C.   Personal Cultivation Permit Required: No person may plant, cultivate,
harvest, dry or process marijuana plants or marijuana products outdoors, and no
personal cultivation permit may be issued for outdoor cultivation. No person
may plant, cultivate, harvest, dry or process marijuana plants inside a private
residence or accessory structure to a primary residence without first obtaining
a personal cultivation permit from the Police Department.
      1.   Personal Cultivation Permit Application Requirements: Any person
wishing to obtain a personal cultivation permit from the City must file an
application to the City upon a form provided by the City. An application for a
personal cultivation permit must include the following information:
         a.   The address of the location of the private residence for which
the personal cultivation permit is sought. Only one personal cultivation permit
will be issued per address.
         b.   The names and ages of all occupants of the parcel of real
property for the proposed personal cultivation site.
         c.   For rental property, the lessee shall obtain written
authorization from the property owner or property management company to
cultivate marijuana at the residence.
         d.   Evidence that the cultivation area will be located in a legal
structure that is compliant with all applicable State and local laws.
         e.   Authorization for the law enforcement personnel, Fire Department
personnel, the Code Enforcement Officer, and the building official to enter and
inspect the cultivation area at any time upon twenty four (24) hours' advance
notice for the purpose of making reasonable inspections to observe and enforce
compliance with this chapter, the Health and Safety Code, the California
Building Code, and all other applicable State and local laws.
         f.   A statement in writing by the applicant that the applicant
certifies under penalty of perjury that all of the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
         g.   Any such additional information as is deemed necessary by the
Police Chief to administer this chapter.
      2.   Personal Cultivation Permit Conditions: The following conditions
apply to each personal cultivation permit:
         a.   Each personal cultivation permittee must pay a personal
cultivation permit fee in an amount to be established by resolution of the City
Council to offset the cost to the City of administering this chapter as a
prerequisite to obtaining the personal cultivation permit.
         b.   A personal cultivation permit will not be awarded or renewed if:
            (1)   The applicant made one or more false or misleading statements
or omissions in the application or during the application process;
            (2)   A personal cultivation permit already exists at the proposed
personal cultivation site;
            (3)   The proposed personal cultivation activity would violate
State or local law;
            (4)   The applicant does not have legal authority to engage in
personal cultivation at the proposed personal cultivation site;
            (5)   The applicant has not satisfied each and every requirement of
this chapter;
            (6)   The applicant has had a previous personal cultivation permit
revoked.
         c.   Personal cultivation permits are subject to any additional
conditions that may be imposed or applied by the City at the time of issuance
or renewal as necessary to properly regulate the activity and protect the
public.
         d.   Personal cultivation permits shall expire and become null and
void twelve (12) months after issuance unless properly renewed.
         e.   Personal cultivation permits issued pursuant to this chapter are
not transferable under any circumstances. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
5-13-6: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA OPERATIONS,
DISPENSARIES, AND DELIVERIES:
   A.   Commercial Marijuana Operations: Commercial marijuana operations as
defined in section
5-13-2 of this chapter are prohibited within the City.
   B.   Dispensaries: Marijuana dispensaries as defined in section
5-13-2 of this chapter are prohibited within the City.
   C.   Deliveries: The delivery of marijuana as defined in section
5-13-2 of this chapter is prohibited in the City regardless of whether the
delivery is initiated within or outside of the City, and regardless of whether
a technology platform is used for delivery by the dispensary.
   D.   Exceptions: The following facilities providing medical marijuana to
patients are not subject to the dispensary ban provided they are in strict
compliance with Health and Safety Code sections 11362.5 and 11362.7 et seq.,
and all other State and local laws pertaining to the uses, including zoning,
permitting, and licensing requirements:
      1.   A clinic licensed pursuant to chapter 1 (commencing with section
1200) of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code.
      2.   A health care facility licensed pursuant to chapter 2 (commencing
with section 1250) of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code.
      3.   A residential care facility for persons with chronic life-
threatening illness licensed pursuant to chapter 3.01 (commencing with section
1568.01) of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code.
      4.   A residential care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant to
chapter 3.2 (commencing with section 1569) of division 2 of the Health and
Safety Code.
      5.   A residential hospice, or a home health agency licensed pursuant to
chapter 8 (commencing with section 1725) of division 2 of the Health and Safety
Code. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
5-13-7: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE CONSUMPTION OF MARIJUANA:
No person, including a qualified patient, shall smoke, ingest, or otherwise
consume marijuana in the City of Reedley unless such smoking, ingesting or
consumption occurs entirely within a private residence, or on the premises of a
private residence but out of public view, or within a clinic, healthcare
facility, residential care facility, or residential hospice licensed pursuant
to applicable provisions of the California Health and Safety Code. "Within a
private residence" shall mean inside habitable areas and shall not include
garages, whether attached or detached, and other accessory buildings. "Out of
public view" shall mean out of view from public rights-of-way where members of
the public are lawfully entitled to be. Consumption in garages and other
accessory buildings shall be out of public view.
All consumption shall be done in a manner so as to not cause a nuisance to
nearby residents or the public with noxious odors or other adverse health and
safety impacts. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
5-13-8: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any use, condition, or activity caused or permitted to exist in violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be, and hereby is declared to be, a public
nuisance and may be summarily abated by the City in accordance with applicable
law or any other remedy available to the City. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
5-13-9: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
Any violations of this chapter for conduct that is not otherwise considered
lawful under State law, shall be considered a misdemeanor and may be punishable
in accordance with title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. Each and every day, or
portion thereof, a violation exists is a separate offense. The City may also
pursue all applicable civil and administrative remedies, including but not
limited to injunctive relief and administrative citations.
Should a court of competent jurisdiction subsequently determine that the
criminal penalty provision renders this chapter unlawful, the City intends that
the misdemeanor provision be severable from the remaining penalty provisions
and the City will only pursue non-criminal remedies for violations of this
chapter. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
5-13-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, phrase, provision, or clause of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter. The City Council hereby declares that
it would have adopted this chapter and each section, subsection, phrase,
provision, or clause hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrases, provisions, or clauses be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
5-13-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Judicial review of a decision made under this chapter may be had by filing a
petition for a writ of mandate with the Superior Court in accordance with the
provisions of the California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. Any such
petition shall be filed within ninety (90) days after the day the decision
becomes final as provided in California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6,
which shall be applicable for such actions. (Ord. 2018-005, 9-25-2018)
CHAPTER 14
MILITARY EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
5-14-1: Name Of Ordinance
5-14-2: Definitions
5-14-3: Military Equipment Use Policy Requirement
5-14-4: Use In Exigent Circumstances
5-14-5: Reports On The Use Of Military Equipment
5-14-6: Severability
5-14-1: NAME OF ORDINANCE:
This chapter shall be known as the Military Equipment Use Ordinance. (Ord.
2022-003, 4-26-2022)
5-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
CITY:          Any department, agency, bureau, and/or subordinate division of the City of Reedley.
CITY COUNCIL:  The governing body that is the Reedley City Council.
EXIGENT        A law enforcement agency's good faith belief that an emergency involving the danger
CIRCUMSTANCES: of, or imminent threat of death or serious physical injury to any person is
               occurring, has occurred, or is about to occur.
               Includes all of the following (Per CA Gov. Code §7070):
                  1.   Unmanned, remotely piloted, powered aerial or ground vehicles.
                  2.   Mine-resistant ambush-protected (MRAP) vehicles or armored personnel
               carriers.
                  However, police versions of standard consumer vehicles are specifically excluded
               from this subdivision.
                  3.   High mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles (HMMWV), commonly referred to as
               Humvees, two and one-half-ton trucks, five-ton trucks, or wheeled vehicles that have
               a breaching or entry apparatus attached. However, unarmored all-terrain vehicles
               (ATVs) and motorized dirt bikes are specifically excluded from this subdivision.
                  4.   Tracked armored vehicles that provide ballistic protection to their
               occupants and utilize a tracked system instead of wheels for forward motion.
                  5.   Command and control vehicles that are either built or modified to facilitate
               the operational control and direction of public safety units.
                  6.   Weaponized aircraft, vessels, or vehicles of any kind.
                  7.   Battering rams, slugs, and breaching apparatuses that are explosive in
               nature. However, items designed to remove a lock, such as bolt cutters, or a
               handheld ram designed to be operated by one person, are specifically excluded from
               this subdivision.
                  8.    Firearms of .50 caliber or greater. However, standard issue shotguns are
MILITARY       specifically excluded from this subdivision.
EQUIPMENT:        9.   Ammunition of .50 caliber or greater. However, standard issue shotgun
               ammunition is specifically excluded from this subdivision.
                  10.   Specialized firearms and ammunition of less than .50 caliber, including
               assault weapons as defined in Sections 30510 and 30515 of the Penal Code, with the
               exception of standard issue service weapons and ammunition of less than .50 caliber
               that are issued to officers, agents, or employees of a law enforcement agency or a
               state agency.
                  11.   Any firearm or firearm accessory that is designed to launch explosive
               projectiles.
                  12.   "Flashbang" grenades and explosive breaching tools, "tear gas," and "pepper
               balls," excluding standard, service-issued handheld pepper spray.
                  13.    Taser Shockwave, microwave weapons, water cannons, and the Long-Range
               Acoustic Device (LRAD).
                  14.    The following projectile launch platforms and their associated munitions:
               40mm projectile launchers, "bean bag," rubber bullet, and specialty impact munition
               (SIM) weapons.
                  15.    Any other equipment as determined by a governing body or a state agency to
               require additional oversight.
                  16.   Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) through (15), "Military Equipment" does not
               include general equipment not designated as prohibited or controlled by the federal
               Defense Logistics Agency.
               A publicly released, written document that includes, at a minimum, all of the
               following:
                  1.   A description of each type of Military Equipment, the quantity sought, its
               capabilities, expected lifespan, and product descriptions from the manufacturer of
               the Military Equipment.
                  2.   The purposes and authorized uses for which the law enforcement agency or the
               state agency proposes to use each type of Military Equipment.
                  3.   The fiscal impact of each type of Military Equipment, including the initial
               costs of obtaining the equipment and estimated annual costs of maintaining the
               equipment.
                  4.   The legal and procedural rules that govern each authorized use.
MILITARY          5.   The training, including any course required by the Commission on Peace
EQUIPMENT USE  Officer Standards and Training, that must be completed before any officer, agent, or
POLICY:        employee of the law enforcement agency or the state agency is allowed to use each
               specific type of Military Equipment to ensure the full protection of the public's
               welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties and full adherence to the
               Military Equipment use policy.
                  6.   The mechanisms to ensure compliance with the Military Equipment use policy,
               including which independent persons or entities have oversight authority, and, if
               applicable, what legally enforceable sanctions are put in place for violations of
               the policy.
                  7.   For a law enforcement agency, the procedures by which members of the public
               may register complaints or concerns or submit questions about the use of each
               specific type of Military Equipment, and how the law enforcement agency will ensure
               that each complaint, concern, or question receives a response in a timely manner.
POLICE         Any division, section, bureau, employee, volunteer and/or contractor of the Reedley
DEPARTMENT:    Police Department.
               The law enforcement division of every state office, officer, department, division,
STATE AGENCY:  bureau, board, and commission or other state body or agency, except those agencies
               provided for in Article IV (except Section 20 thereof) or Article VI of the
               California Constitution.
TYPE:          Each item that shares the same manufacturer model number. (Ord. 2022-003, 4-26-2022)
 
5-14-3: MILITARY EQUIPMENT USE POLICY REQUIREMENT:
   A.   The Reedley Police Department shall obtain approval of the City
Council, by an ordinance adopting a Military Equipment Use Policy (MEUP) at a
regular meeting of the City Council held pursuant to the Ralph M. Brown Act
(Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 54950) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5),
prior to engaging in any of the following:
      1.   Requesting Military Equipment made available pursuant to Section
2576a of Title 10 of the United States Code.
      2.   Seeking funds for Military Equipment, including, but not limited to,
applying for a grant, soliciting or accepting private, local, state, or Federal
funds, in-kind donations, or other donations or transfers.
      3.   Acquiring Military Equipment either permanently or temporarily,
including by borrowing or leasing.
      4.   Collaborating with another law enforcement agency in the deployment
or other use of Military Equipment within the territorial jurisdiction of the
City of Reedley.
      5.   Using any new or existing Military Equipment for a purpose, in a
manner, or by a person not previously approved by the governing body pursuant
to this chapter.
      6.   Soliciting or responding to a proposal for, or entering into an
agreement with, any other person or entity to seek funds for, apply to receive,
acquire, use, or collaborate in the use of, Military Equipment.
      7.   Acquiring Military Equipment through any means not provided by this
section.
   B.   No later than May 1, 2022, if seeking to continue the use of any
Military Equipment that was acquired prior to January 1, 2022, the Reedley
Police Department shall commence a City Council approval process in accordance
with this section. If the City Council does not approve the continuing use of
Military Equipment, including by adoption pursuant to a Military Equipment Use
Policy submitted pursuant to this code, within 180 days of submission of the
proposed Military Equipment Use Policy to City Council, the Reedley Police
Department shall cease its use of the Military Equipment until it receives the
approval of City Council in accordance with this code.
   C.   In seeking the approval of City Council, the Reedley Police Department
shall submit a proposed Military Equipment Use Policy to City Council and make
those documents available on the Police Department's internet website at least
thirty (30) days prior to any public hearing concerning the Military Equipment
at issue.
   D.   The governing body shall consider a proposed Military Equipment Use
policy as an agenda item for an open session of a regular meeting and provide
for public comment in accordance with the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 54950) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5).
   E.   The governing body shall only approve a Military Equipment Use Policy
pursuant to this chapter if it determines all of the following:
      1.   The Military Equipment is necessary because there is no reasonable
alternative that can achieve the same objective of officer and civilian safety.
      2.   The proposed Military Equipment use policy will safeguard the
public's welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties.
      3.   If purchasing the equipment, the equipment is reasonably cost
effective compared to available alternatives that can achieve the same
objective of officer and civilian safety.
      4.   Prior Military Equipment use complied with the Military Equipment
Use Policy that was in effect at the time, or if prior uses did not comply with
the accompanying Military Equipment Use Policy, corrective action has been
taken to remedy nonconforming uses and ensure future compliance.
   F.   In order to facilitate public participation, any proposed or final
Military Equipment Use Policy shall be made publicly available on the internet
website of the Police Department for as long as the Military Equipment is
available for use.
   G.   The City Council shall review any ordinance that is has adopted
pursuant to this Chapter approving the funding, acquisition, or use of Military
Equipment at least annually and vote on whether to renew the ordinance at a
regular meeting held pursuant to the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9 (commencing
with Section 54950) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5). (Ord. 2022-003, 4-26-
2022)
5-14-4: USE IN EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES:
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Chapter, the Police Department
may acquire, borrow and/or use Military Equipment in Exigent Circumstances
without following the requirements of this code.
   B.   If the Police Department acquires, borrows, and/or uses Military
Equipment in Exigent Circumstances, in accordance with this section, it must
take all of the following actions:
      1.   Provide written notice of that acquisition or use to the City
Council within thirty (30) days following the commencement of such Exigent
Circumstance, unless such information is confidential or privileged under
local, state or federal law.
      2.   If it is anticipated that the use will continue beyond the Exigent
Circumstance, submit a proposed amended Military Equipment Use Policy to the
City Council within ninety (90) days following the borrowing, acquisition and/
or use, and receive approval, as applicable, from the City Council.
      3.   Include the Military Equipment in the Police Department's next
annual Military Equipment Report. (Ord. 2022-003, 4-26-2022)
5-14-5: REPORTS ON THE USE OF MILITARY EQUIPMENT:
   A.   The Police Department shall submit to City Council an annual Military
Equipment Report for each type of Military Equipment approved by the City
Council within one year of approval, and annually thereafter for as long as the
Military Equipment is available for use.
   B.   The Police Department shall also make each annual Military Equipment
Report required by this section publicly available on its internet website for
as long as the Military Equipment is available for use.
   C.   The annual Military Equipment Report shall, at a minimum, include the
following information for the immediately preceding calendar year for each type
of Military Equipment:
      1.   A summary of how the Military Equipment was used and the purpose of
its use.
      2.   A summary of any complaints or concerns received concerning the
Military Equipment.
      3.   The results of any internal audits, any information about violations
of the Military Equipment Use Policy, and any actions taken in response.
      4.   The total annual cost for each type of Military Equipment, including
acquisition, personnel, training, transportation, maintenance, storage,
upgrade, and other ongoing costs, and from what source funds will be provided
for the Military Equipment in the calendar year following submission of the
annual Military Equipment Report.
      5.   The quantity possessed for each type of Military Equipment.
      6.   If the law enforcement agency intends to acquire additional Military
Equipment in the next year, the quantity sought for each type of Military
Equipment.
   D.   Within thirty (30) days of submitting and publicly releasing an annual
Military Equipment Report pursuant to this section, the Police Department shall
hold at least one well-publicized and conveniently located community engagement
meeting, at which the general public may discuss and ask questions regarding
the annual Military Equipment report and the law enforcement agency's funding,
acquisition, or use of Military Equipment.
   E.   The City Council shall determine, based on the annual Military
Equipment Report submitted pursuant to this section, whether each type of
Military Equipment identified in that report has complied with the standards
for approval set forth in this code and the Military Equipment Use Policy. If
the City Council determines that a type of Military Equipment identified in the
annual Military Equipment Report as not complied with the standards for
approval, the City Council shall either disapprove a renewal of the
authorization of or that type of Military Equipment or require modification to
the Military Equipment Use Policy in a manner that will resolve the lack of
compliance. (Ord. 2022-003, 4-26-2022)
5-14-6: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this
Chapter, or any application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions or applications of this Chapter.
   B.   The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this Chapter
and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, and word not
declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether any other
portion of this Chapter or application thereof would be subsequently declared
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 2022-003, 4-26-2022)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Traffic Controls
6-1-3: Speed Limits
6-1-4: Pedestrian Lanes
6-1-5: U-Turns Prohibited
6-1-6: Truck Routes
6-1-7: Grade Crossings
6-1-8: Emerging From Alley
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall, unless the same be contrary
to or inconsistent with the context, be construed as follows:
ALLEY: Any public highway of twenty feet (20') or less in width.
ANGULAR PARKING: That the vehicle shall be so placed that the right front wheel
in the direction the vehicle is headed shall rest against the curb at an angle
between twenty five degrees (25°) and ninety degrees (90°), and not closer than
two feet (2') on each side of another vehicle.
PARALLEL PARKING: That such vehicle shall be placed parallel with the curb, and
both right wheels in the direction in which the vehicle is headed are within
ten inches (10") of the curb, and not closer than two feet (2'), either front
or rear, of another vehicle.
PERSON: Includes natural persons, corporations, partnerships and associations.
(Ord. 789, 9-28-1993; amd. 2007 Code)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC CONTROLS:
   A.   Authority: The authority to mark streets, including, but not limited
to, signs, stripings, signals and related regulatory and warning devices,
within public rights of way shall be controlled by the city council and the
following provisions:
      1.   Signs, signals and other related regulatory and warning devices
shall conform to the current edition of the state of California department of
transportation's traffic manual, chapter 4 on signs, to the greatest practical
extent, and the California Vehicle Code.
      2.   The city council may delegate, by resolution, the authority to
install or direct the installation of traffic control devices in accordance
with said traffic manual to the city manager, city manager's designee or the
city traffic safety commission.
      3.   Signs, warning devices and related devices in construction zones
shall conform to manual of traffic controls for construction and maintenance
work zones, chapter 5, of the traffic manual by the California department of
transportation, current edition.
   B.   Emergency Traffic Controls: The city manager or city manager's designee
is authorized to regulate traffic or cause to regulate traffic to the greatest
extent possible in accordance with said traffic manual during emergencies as
necessary for the health and safety of the general public. (Ord. 96-008, 7-23-
1996)
6-1-3: SPEED LIMITS:
Lawful speed limits of vehicles within the city shall be as follows:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, the maximum speed limit of vehicles
within the business district and within any residential district shall be
twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   B.   The city council may, by resolution, establish speed zones to regulate
the maximum allowable vehicle speed on streets within the city. Said maximum
speed limit shall only apply to those portions of said described streets which
are within the present city limits. In the event of city streets partly within
the city and partly within the county, the city council hereby adopts said
speed limits to be in full force and effect pursuant to the provisions of this
section regardless of the actions of the county. (Ord. 95-004, 2-28-1995)
6-1-4: PEDESTRIAN LANES:
   A.   Lanes Marked: The city manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized
and required to mark and maintain and designate upon the surface of the roadway
by appropriate devices, marks or painted lines, pedestrian lanes approximately
twelve feet (12') in width at all places on public streets as designated by
resolution of the city council or by the traffic safety commission. (Ord. 95-
004, 2-28-1995; amd. 2007 Code)
   B.   Lanes Observed: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor
driven or horse drawn vehicle to drive into any pedestrian lane, which is
marked as in this chapter provided, while there is in such pedestrian lane,
upon the half of the roadway upon which such vehicle is traveling, any
pedestrian engaged in crossing the roadway, until such pedestrian shall have
passed out of the half of the pedestrian lane over which such vehicle will
cross. (Ord. 132, 1-26-1927)
6-1-5: U-TURNS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person at any time to turn or cause to be turned
any motor vehicle in a U-turn, or in a complete circle, or in such a manner as
to proceed in the opposite direction upon the street in which the said vehicle
is traveling at the time of entering said intersection on or at any street in
the city, as established by resolution of the city council; provided however,
that this section shall not apply to any emergency vehicle. (Ord. 95-004, 2-28-
1995)
6-1-6: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Routes Authorized: No truck or other vehicle described in subsection B
of this section shall travel or be propelled along, over or upon any street
except over the courses or routes designated by the city council by resolution,
except as provided in subsection C of this section.
   B.   Definition: The vehicles referred to in subsection A of this section
include and are all those trucks, trailers, wagons and other vehicles which
shall exceed in weight ten thousand (10,000) pounds, or a maximum gross weight
limit of five (5) tons.
   C.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding anything herein contained, all vehicles not
prohibited by state law from traveling upon other streets, may travel upon and
may use other streets of the city when actually engaged in picking up or
delivering all or a portion of its load to a residence or a place of business
which cannot be reached by traversing the routes described in subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 283, 10-4-1955; amd. Ord. 96-008, 7-23-1996)
6-1-7: GRADE CROSSINGS:
   A.   Stop Required: Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a
railway grade crossing, and a flagman or electrical or mechanical signal gives
warning of the approach of a railway train or car, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of the vehicle to fail to bring the vehicle to a complete stop within
fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') of the nearest railway
tracks before traversing such grade crossing.
   B.   Applicability To Certain Vehicles: The operator of any motor vehicle
carrying passengers for hire, and the operator of any school bus, and the
operator of any motor truck carrying explosive substances or explosive or
inflammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo shall, before crossing at
grade any railway track, bring his vehicle, bus or truck to a complete stop
within fifty feet (50'), but not less than fifteen feet (15') of the nearest
railway tracks before traversing such grade crossing; provided, that this
section shall not apply to railway tracks where city or county officers are on
duty, or where said crossings are protected by flaggers or automatic devices to
indicate the approach of trains on said rails, when said flaggers or automatic
devices indicate that the tracks are clear and safe for crossing. (Ord. 152A,
5-14-1931; amd. 2007 Code)
6-1-8: EMERGING FROM ALLEY:
It shall be and is hereby declared unlawful for any person to fail to come to a
full stop when about to enter upon an intersecting highway from any alley
before entering upon that portion of the intersecting highway that would be
sidewalk if projected across said alley intersection. (Ord. 95, 9-5-1922; amd.
2007 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-2-1: Parking Districts
6-2-2: Method Of Parking
6-2-3: Parking Meters Prohibited
6-2-4: Vehicle Repair, Parking And Storing
6-2-5: Parking Of Commercial Vehicles
6-2-6: Parking Lots
6-2-7: Penalty
6-2-1: PARKING DISTRICTS:
The city council, by resolution, may adopt parking districts, establish the
manner of parking in the various parking districts and may establish limited
parking in zones within the city, for the purpose of regulating parking on city
streets.
The city council may also, by resolution, designate and otherwise limit parking
in residential areas as designated in said resolution. (Ord. 95-004, 2-28-1995)
6-2-2: METHOD OF PARKING:
It is hereby declared unlawful to park any vehicle in such manner that any part
of such vehicle or any part of its load, will rest or extend from the highway
on which the front of said vehicle is parked into another highway, or the
projecting lines thereof, across the highway in which the front of said vehicle
is parked; or to park any vehicle that any portion thereof, or its load,
nearest the center of the highway upon which it is parked will be a greater
distance from the curb of the highway on the side it is parked than fifteen
feet (15') measured at a right angle from the curb. (Ord. 95, 9-5-1922)
6-2-3: PARKING METERS PROHIBITED 1 :
No officer of this city and no private agency or person shall install or place
any parking meter or other device for the obtaining of revenue from or for the
parking of any vehicle upon the city streets, except upon the majority vote of
the people of the city previously obtained. (Ord. 355, 11-27-1962)
 
Notes
1 1. This section was adopted pursuant to initiative election.
6-2-4: VEHICLE REPAIR, PARKING AND STORING:
   A.   Parking Prohibited:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2 of this section, no person shall
park, store, place or allow to remain on front yards, side yards, back yards,
or parking strips (planting strips) any vehicle, whether or not capable of
movement under its own power, or any disabled motor vehicle or unregistered
motor vehicle whether capable of movement or not, motor vehicle parts,
equipment, machinery, tools or other similar materials of any kind; or greases,
oils, paints or their containers for a period of more than a continuous period
of seventy two (72) hours. Said vehicles shall include, but not be limited to,
destruction derby cars or similar automobiles.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection A1 of this section, any vehicle, whether
or not disabled, unregistered, or capable of movement under its own power,
including any vehicle of historic value as registered in accordance with
Vehicle Code section 5004, may be parked or stored in a residential zone
district only as follows: a) in a properly permitted and entirely enclosed
space or carport; b) in a rear or side yard enclosed by not less than a five
foot (5') solid fence or wall; or c) in a front yard improved driveway but no
closer than three feet (3') of any garage door opening and no closer than five
feet (5') of the side yard property line, so long as screening by shrubs and/or
trees is provided along the side yard property line sufficient to mitigate the
visual impact of the vehicle on adjacent property. No more than a total of two
(2) disabled and/or unregistered vehicles may be stored in any rear yard in a
residential zone district, and only one vehicle may be stored in any front yard
improved driveway in a residential zone district.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, or has possession,
custody or control of any disabled vehicle as provided in subsection A1 of this
section to park or leave the same standing on a municipal parking lot of the
city or any other land owned or controlled by the city for a period of more
than a continuous period of forty eight (48) hours. (Ord. 2010-06, 10-26-2010)
   B.   Vehicle And Appliance Repair: No person shall construct, reconstruct,
disassemble, repair or service any motor vehicle, motorcycle, boat, household
appurtenance or appliance upon any parcel in a residential zone district
between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., if a nuisance
is created. No person shall do any such work, or allow work to be done, in any
front yard in a residential district at any time, except for emergency work
which does not extend over a period of two (2) hours. Repair of a
nonoperational motorized vehicle, unattached trailer, or semitrailer on a
street, alleyway, or within the public right of way is prohibited at any time,
except for emergency work which does not require or extend over a period of two
(2) hours. Emergency work on a street, alleyway or within the public right of
way shall be limited to essential repairs that do not require the exchange of
typical automotive/trucking fluids. The burden of showing that the work was
emergency work shall be upon the person charged with violation of this
subsection. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
   C.   Parking Time Limits: No person who owns or has possession, custody, or
control of any vehicle shall park or leave standing such vehicle upon any
sidewalk, curb, street or alley of the city for more than a continuous period
of ninety six (96) hours. For purposes of this chapter, a vehicle is deemed to
be parked or left standing for a continuous period if the vehicle is moved and
returns within four (4) hours to any portion of the same footprint or position
upon which it was previously parked or left standing.
   D.   Removal Of Vehicle: In the event a vehicle is parked or left standing
upon a street or alley in excess of a continuous period of ninety six (96)
hours, any member of the police department authorized by the chief of police
may remove such vehicle from the street or alley in the manner and subject to
the requirements of the Vehicle Code of the state.
   E.   City Parking Lots: No person who temporarily owns or has possession,
custody or control of any vehicle while parked in a city owned or operated
parking lot shall clean, service, maintain or repair said vehicle. Said
provision shall not apply to emergency repairs to said vehicle not to exceed
one hour duration, to permit the vehicle to be towed or otherwise removed from
the said lot.
   F.   Temporary Parking: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A
through E of this section, approval may be granted by the chief of police for
the temporary parking of a vehicle on a residential driveway or in the public
street immediately adjacent thereto for up to three (3) additional days if
requested by the resident of the premises on which permission to park is
sought. Said approval shall be visibly displayed on the vehicle.
   G.   Terms Defined: For purposes of this chapter, the term "vehicle" shall
have the definition set forth in section
6-4-1 of this title and the term "yard" shall have the definition set forth in
section
10-2-3 of this code.
The terms "yard", "driveway" and "street" do not include a ten foot (10') area
adjacent to and behind the curb, in areas improved with curbs, and adjacent to
and behind the edge of the pavement, in areas with no curbs. Parking and
storage of vehicles within said ten foot (10') area is prohibited. (Ord. 2010-
06, 10-26-2010)
6-2-5: PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Parking In Residential Districts: No person shall park any of the
following vehicles in any residential zone district or in the right of way
adjacent to any residential zone except as provided in subsection D of this
section:
      1.   Commercial vehicles in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds based
on unladen weight.
         a.   For purpose of this section, a commercial vehicle shall be
defined as provided in California Vehicle Code section 260(a) and (b).
         b.   For purpose of this section, unladen weight shall be defined as
provided in California Vehicle Code section 660.
      2.   Buses. For purpose of this section, bus shall be defined as provided
in Vehicle Code section 233(a).
      3.   Semitrailers and trailers of all types.
         a.   For the purpose of this section, a semitrailer and trailer shall
be defined as provided in California Vehicle Code sections 550 and 630 if used
in conjunction with any business, for hire, or whereby compensation is derived
from such use. (Ord. 2006-02, 4-25-2006)
         b.   The parking of any disabled or unattached trailer or semitrailer
is prohibited. No person shall park any trailer or semitrailer upon any
highway, street, alleyway, public right of way or public place unless the
trailer or semitrailer is, at all times while so parked, attached to a
motorized vehicle capable of moving the trailer or semitrailer in a normal
operational manner upon the highway, street, alleyway, public right of way or
public place. (Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
   B.   Parking Near Residential Districts Or Schools: No person shall park a
commercial vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or bus, or combination of either, as
defined in this section, on any public street within five hundred feet (500')
of a residential zone or within five hundred feet (500') of any school property
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   C.   Parking On Vacant Lots: No person shall park a commercial vehicle,
trailer, semitrailer, bus or combination of either, as defined in this section,
on any vacant or unimproved lot unless such parking is in connection with an
adjoining business and which is otherwise permissible under the provisions of
this code. (Ord. 2006-02, 4-25-2006)
   D.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply when a
commercial vehicle, bus, semitrailer or trailer is:
      1.   Parked in connection with the loading or unloading of merchandise,
materials or passengers for such time as is reasonably necessary to complete
such service;
      2.   Parked in connection with, and in aid of, the performance of a
service to or on a property in the block in which such commercial vehicle,
semitrailer, trailer or bus is parked for such time as is reasonably necessary
to complete such service;
      3.   An authorized emergency vehicle, as defined in California Vehicle
Code section 165, or a public utility vehicle utilized for responding to
emergency incidents; or
      4.   Where parking is expressly permitted by city ordinance or resolution
and posted as such.
      5.   Parked for a continuous period not exceeding twenty four (24) hours.
(Ord. 2016-003, 8-23-2016)
6-2-6: PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Established: The city council, by resolution, may establish municipal
parking lots in the city that are owned, operated, or controlled by the city.
   B.   Regulations: The following regulations shall apply to all municipal
parking lots in the city:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, or has possession,
custody or control of any commercial vehicle in excess of ten thousand (10,000)
pounds to park or leave such a vehicle standing on a municipal parking lot,
except as reasonably required for purposes of loading or unloading passengers
or materials for pick up or delivery and shall not extend beyond the time
necessary therefor and in no event for more than thirty (30) minutes.
      2.   All vehicles shall be parked within designated parking areas and
parking stalls.
      3.   All vehicles parked shall comply with and be subject to all Vehicle
Code requirements for operable vehicles, including, without limitation, current
licensing and registration, and operating/running conditions.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, or has possession,
custody or control of any vehicle, whether or not such vehicle is disabled, to
park or leave the same standing on a municipal parking lot of the city or any
other land owned or controlled by the city for a period of more than a
continuous period of forty eight (48) hours. If a vehicle is parked or left
standing on a municipal parking lot of the city or any other land owned or
controlled by the city for a period of more than a continuous period of forty
eight (48) hours, any member of the police department authorized by the chief
of police may have such vehicle removed therefrom in the manner and subject to
applicable requirements of this code and the Vehicle Code. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-25-
2011)
6-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
an infraction, and fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 790, 10-26-1993; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND SKATES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Operation Of Bicycles
6-3-3: Off Highway Use Of Certain Vehicles
6-3-4: Operation Of Skateboards, Roller Skates And In-Line Skates
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
BICYCLE: A light vehicle without a motor, having two (2) wheels, handlebars and
a seat or seats, and propelled by the operator. (Ord. 2015-010, 11-10-2015)
6-3-2: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or operate a bicycle in violation
of any of the rules of the road as set forth in this section as follows:
   A.   Riding On Sidewalks: The public works department is authorized to erect
signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by
any person; and when such signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
Where permitted, persons riding bicycles on sidewalks shall do so in a single
file.
Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person shall
yield the right of way to any pedestrian, and shall give an audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. At the intersection of two (2)
or more sidewalks, where the vision of the operator of a bicycle is so
restricted by hedges, bushes, buildings or any other obstruction so that the
approach of a pedestrian cannot be observed and there is danger of a collision
with the pedestrian, the operator of a bicycle shall dismount and walk through
the intersection of the sidewalks.
   B.   Speed: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing, and every bicycle
shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the operator and
other persons upon the streets, sidewalks and public highways of the city.
   C.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The operator of a bicycle emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all
pedestrians approaching on said sidewalks or sidewalk area, and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway.
   D.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle shall cling or
attach the same or himself to any other moving vehicle or streetcar or person
in any other vehicle.
   E.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
   F.   Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths: Every person operating a bicycle
upon a roadway shall ride as near to the right hand side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2) abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   G.   Passengers: No person riding or operating a bicycle in the city shall
carry another person on said bicycle, unless such person or passenger is seated
upon an individual seat or carrier separate from that intended to be used by
the operator.
No person shall ride upon a bicycle as a passenger, unless he is seated upon an
individual seat or carrier separate from that intended to be used by the
operator.
   H.   Towing: No person riding or operating a bicycle in the city shall tow
any other vehicle or person, except that bicycle trailers used for the delivery
of newspapers, magazines or merchandise may be towed when being used in such
delivery service.
   I.   Racing: No person riding or operating a bicycle upon a public highway
or street shall participate in any race, speed or endurance contest unless such
race or endurance contest has the written permission of the chief of police.
   J.   Traffic Signals: Every person operating a bicycle shall stop for all
arterial highways and traffic signals.
   K.   Parking: No person shall park any bicycle against windows or parking
meters or on the main traveled portion of the sidewalk, nor in such manner as
to constitute a hazard to pedestrians, traffic or property.
If there are no bicycle racks or other facilities intended to be used for
parking of bicycles in the vicinity, bicycles may be parked on the sidewalk in
an upright position parallel to and within twenty four inches (24") of the
curb.
   L.   Parks, Playgrounds And Schools: No person shall ride or operate a
bicycle upon any playground, park or school ground, where children are playing,
without permission of the person having supervision thereof. (Ord. 2015-010,
11-10-2015)
6-3-3: OFF HIGHWAY USE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to ride or operate any motorcycle or motorbike of
any kind on any private property or unoccupied public property within one-
fourth (1/4) of a mile of any school, hospital, convalescent home or
residential area as hereinafter defined except upon a regularly established
private road, driveway or parking lot appurtenant to a structure on that
property. A residential area, within the meaning of this section, means any
area one-fourth (1/4) mile in depth abutting a public or private road and one-
fourth (1/4) mile in length measured along such road and which contains any
apartment house, condominium, multiple unit dwelling structure or four (4) or
more residences of any kind or combination. (Ord. 2015-010, 11-10-2015)
6-3-4: OPERATION OF SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND IN-LINE SKATES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, roller skates or in-
line skates in violation of any of the following rules:
   A.   Riding On Sidewalks: The public works department is authorized to erect
signs on any sidewalk prohibiting the riding of skateboards, roller skates or
in-line skates thereon by any person.
Whenever any person is riding a skateboard, roller skates or in-line skates
upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian. At
the intersection of two (2) or more sidewalks, where the vision of the operator
of the skateboard, roller skates or in-line skates is restricted by hedges,
bushes, buildings or any other obstruction so that the approach of a pedestrian
cannot be observed and there is danger of a collision with the pedestrian, the
operator of the skateboard, roller skates or in-line skates shall get off and
walk through the intersection of sidewalks.
   B.   Speed: No person shall operate a skateboard, roller skates or in-line
skates at a greater speed than is reasonable and prudent under conditions then
existing.
   C.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The operator of a skateboard, roller
skates or in-line skates emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalks or
sidewalk area.
   D.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding on a skateboard, roller skates
or in-line skates shall attach himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   E.   Parks, Playgrounds And Schools: No person shall ride a skateboard,
roller skates or in-line skates upon any playground, park or school ground,
unless it is a designated skatepark area, without permission of the person
having supervision thereof.
   F.   Skateparks:
      1.   Areas Designated: A skatepark facility (hereinafter "skatepark") is
hereby designated at that area located at the northwest corner of C.F. Mueller
Park, located at 100 N. East Avenue, for the purpose of riding skateboards,
roller skates and in-line skates. Other areas may also be temporarily
designated as mobile skateparks by the community services director. Said
designation shall be reflected in a sign posted at the area so designated.
      2.   Required Safety Equipment: It is unlawful for a person to ride or
use a skateboard, roller skates or in-line skates in a designated skatepark
unless that person is wearing a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads.
      3.   Prohibited Vehicles: Bicycles, scooters, motorcycles and motorized
vehicles are prohibited in designated skateparks. It is unlawful for a person
to enter onto or ride in a designated skatepark with a bicycle, scooter,
motorcycle or motorized vehicle.
      4.   Signs Posted: The public works director shall cause a sign or signs
to be posted at designated skateparks providing reasonable notice of the
requirements of this section.
   G.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
or any of the instructions or prohibitions contained in any signage posted
pursuant to this section, shall be guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 2015-010, 11-
10-2015)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Nuisance Declared
6-4-3: Exemptions
6-4-4: Nonexclusive Regulation
6-4-5: Enforcement
6-4-6: Discovery Of Nuisance
6-4-7: Notice Of Intention To Abate Nuisance
6-4-8: Request For Public Hearing
6-4-9: Appeal
6-4-10: Abatement Procedures
6-4-11: Violation; Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following terms have the meanings ascribed to them:
HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to the
use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. Highway includes street,
avenue, alley, square and bridge.
OWNER OF THE LAND: The owner of the land on which the vehicle, or parts
thereof, is located, as shown on the last equalized assessment roll.
OWNER OF THE VEHICLE: The last registered owner and legal owner of record.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Does not include "highway".
VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved or
drawn upon a highway, waterway, track or yard, except a device moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 789, 9-28-
1993)
6-4-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
In addition to and in accordance with the determination made and the authority
granted by the state under Vehicle Code section 22660 to remove abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof as public
nuisances, the city hereby makes the following findings and declaration:
The accumulations and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property not including highways
is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the value of private
property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create
fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating hazard to the
health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects and
to be injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the
presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts
thereof, on private or public property not including highways, except as
expressly hereinafter permitted, is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 789, 9-28-1993)
6-4-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   A vehicle, or parts thereof, which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   B.   A vehicle, or parts thereof, which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a "public" or
"private nuisance" as defined under provisions of law other than Vehicle Code
chapter 10 commencing with section 22650 of division 11 and this chapter. (Ord.
508, 7-17-1973)
6-4-4: NONEXCLUSIVE REGULATION:
This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled
or inoperative vehicles within the city. It shall supplement and be in addition
to the other regulatory codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter
enacted by the city, the state or any other legal entity or agency having
jurisdiction. (Ord. 508, 7-17-1973)
6-4-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this chapter shall be
administered and enforced by chief of police. In the enforcement of the
chapter, such officer and his deputies may enter upon private or public
property to examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain information as to the
identity of a vehicle (and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts
thereof) declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 508, 7-17-
1973)
6-4-6: DISCOVERY OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Authority Of Chief Of Police: Upon discovering the existence of an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicle, or parts thereof, on
private property or public property within the city, the chief of police shall
have the authority to cause the abatement and removal thereof in accordance
with the procedure prescribed herein.
   B.   Right Of Entry: When the city council has contracted with or granted a
franchise to any person or persons, such person or persons shall be authorized
to enter upon private property or public property to remove or cause the
removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to
this chapter.
   C.   Assessment Of Administrative And Removal Costs: The city council shall
from time to time determine and fix an amount to be assessed as administrative
costs (excluding the actual cost or removal of any vehicle or parts thereof)
under this chapter. (Ord. 508, 7-17-1973)
6-4-7: NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE NUISANCE:
A ten (10) day notice of intention to abate and remove the vehicle, or parts
thereof, as a public nuisance shall be mailed by registered mail to the owner
of the land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such
condition that identification numbers are not available to determine ownership.
The notices of intention shall be in the forms on file with the chief of
police. (Ord. 508, 7-17-1973; amd. 2007 Code)
6-4-8: REQUEST FOR PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Upon request by the owner of the vehicle or owner of the land received
by the chief of police within ten (10) days after the mailing of the notices of
intention to abate and remove, a public hearing shall be held by the city
manager on the question of abatement and removal of the vehicle or parts
thereof as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and the
assessment of the administrative costs and the cost or removal of the vehicle
or parts thereof against the property on which it is located.
   B.   If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land within such ten (10)
day period, said statement shall be construed as a request for a hearing which
does not require his presence. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed, by
registered mail, at least ten (10) days before the hearing to the owner of the
land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such condition
that identification numbers are not available to determine ownership. If such a
request for hearing is not received within said ten (10) days after mailing of
the notice of intention to abate and remove, the city shall have the authority
to abate and remove the vehicle or parts thereof as a public nuisance without
holding a public hearing.
   C.   All hearings under this chapter shall be held before the city manager
who shall hear all facts and testimony he deems pertinent. Said facts and
testimony may include testimony on the condition of the vehicle or parts
thereof and the circumstances concerning its location on the said private
property or public property. The city manager shall not be limited by the
technical rules of evidence. The owner of the land may appear in person at the
hearing or present a sworn written statement in time for consideration at the
hearing, and deny responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land,
with his reasons for such denial.
The city manager may impose such conditions and take such other action as he
deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this
chapter. He may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or parts thereof if,
in his opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the city manager may find that a vehicle or parts thereof has been
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or is inoperative on private or public property
and order the same removed from the property as a public nuisance and disposed
of as hereinafter provided and determine the administrative costs and the cost
of removal to be charged against the owner of the land. The order requiring
removal shall include a description of the vehicle or parts thereof and the
correct identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available,
at the site.
If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the land
without the consent of the owner of the land and that he has not subsequently
acquiesced in its presence, the city manager shall not assess the cost of
administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon which the
vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect such costs from such owner
of the land.
If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on his land but does not appear,
or if an interested party makes a written presentation to the city manager but
does not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision. (Ord. 508, 7-
17-1973)
6-4-9: APPEAL:
Any interested party may appeal the decision of the city manager by filing a
written notice of appeal with the said city manager within five (5) days after
his decision. Such appeal shall be heard by the city council which may affirm,
amend or reverse the order or take other action deemed appropriate. The city
clerk shall give written notice of the time and place of the hearing to the
appellant and those persons specified in section
6-4-7 of this chapter. In conducting the hearing the city council shall not be
limited by the technical rules of evidence. (Ord. 508, 7-17-1973)
6-4-10: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Five (5) days after adoption of the order declaring the vehicle or
parts thereof to be a public nuisance, five (5) days from the date of mailing
of notice of the decision if such notice is required by section
6-4-10 of this chapter or fifteen (15) days after such action of the governing
body authorizing removal following appeal, the vehicle or parts thereof may be
disposed of by removal to a scrap yard or automobile dismantler's yard. After a
vehicle has been removed it shall not thereafter be reconstructed or made
operable.
   B.   Within five (5) days after the date of removal of the vehicle or parts
thereof, notice shall be given to the department of motor vehicles identifying
the vehicle or parts thereof removed. At the same time there shall be
transmitted to the department of motor vehicles any evidence of registration
available, including registration certificates, certificates of title and
license plates.
   C.   If the administrative costs and the cost of removal which are charged
against the owner of a parcel of land pursuant to subsection 6-4-8C of this
chapter are not paid within thirty (30) days of the date of the order, or the
final disposition of an appeal therefrom such costs shall be assessed against
the parcel of land pursuant to Government Code section 38773.5 and shall be
transmitted to the tax collector for collection. Said assessment shall have the
same priority as other city taxes. (Ord. 508, 7-17-1973)
6-4-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY 1 :
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to abandon, park,
store or leave or permit the abandonment, parking, storing or leaving of any
licensed or unlicensed vehicle or parts thereof which is in an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative condition upon any private property or
public property, not including highways, within the city for a period in excess
of thirty (30) days unless such vehicle or parts thereof is completely enclosed
within a building in a lawful manner where it is not plainly visible from the
street or other public or private property, or unless such vehicle is stored or
parked in a lawful manner on private property in connection with the business
of a licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer or a junkyard.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to fail or refuse
to remove an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts
thereof or refuse to abate such nuisance when ordered to do so in accordance
with the abatement provisions of this chapter or state law where such state law
is applicable. (Ord. 508, 7-17-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-4-1 of this code.
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Sidewalk Widths
7-1-2: Curbs And Gutters
7-1-3: Sidewalk Divisions
7-1-4: Sidewalk Specifications
7-1-5: Construction Of Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks And Paving Required; Permit
Applications
7-1-1: SIDEWALK WIDTHS:
The width of sidewalks on all streets and avenues shall be as follows. The term
"width of sidewalk" as used herein shall mean the distance from the property
line to the outer edge or street edge of curb:
   A.   On streets or avenues which are sixty one feet (61') in width or over,
the width of the sidewalk is hereby fixed to be fifteen feet (15'); provided
however, that on G Street, 11th Street, that certain street or avenue commonly
known as 11th Street Extension and sometimes as 11th Street, on the
southeasterly side of 13th Street between H and F Streets; also on the
northeasterly side of F Street between 12th and 13th Streets; also on the
northeasterly side of F Street between 9th and 10th Streets; also on the
northwesterly side of 9th Street between F Street and a point midway between F
and G Streets; also on the southeasterly side of 8th Street between F Street
and a point midway between F and G Streets; also on the northwesterly side of
8th Street between F Street and a point midway between G and H Streets; also on
each side of 7th Street between G Street and a point midway between G and H
Streets; also on the northeasterly side of F Street between 12th Street and a
point midway between 11th and 12th Streets, and also on the northeasterly side
of F Street between 10th Street and a point midway between 10th and 11th
Streets; and on all streets and avenues within the fire district or fire
limits, as now or hereafter established, the width of the sidewalks is hereby
fixed to be twelve feet (12').
   B.   On all streets or avenues which are fifty nine feet (59') to sixty one
feet (61') in width, the width of the sidewalk is hereby fixed to be twelve
feet (12'); provided, however, that on the easterly side of that certain street
or avenue commonly known as West Avenue the width of the sidewalk is hereby
fixed to be five feet (5').
   C.   On all streets or avenues which are less than fifty nine feet (59') in
width, the width of the sidewalk is hereby fixed to be eight feet (8'). (Ord.
79, 9-21-1920)
7-1-2: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
   A.   City Council To Authorize: Whenever artificial stone walks are to be
constructed, curb or curbs and gutters shall not be constructed unless
authorized by the city council.
   B.   Specifications: On street intersections the curb shall be turned with
an eight foot (8') radius; at alley intersections the curb shall be turned with
a three foot (3') radius to meet the alley line produced, and the curb shall
then be constructed and continued to the property corner in such manner that
its outside, or alley edge will be on the alley line produced. The top of all
curbs except on produced alley lines, shall be on official grade as adopted by
the city council, unless otherwise specified in the resolution of intention.
The sidewalks shall have a uniform slope of three inches (3") upward to the
property line. Curbs along produced alley lines shall slope upwards to the
property corner even with the slope of the sidewalk. (Ord. 67, 8-12-1919)
7-1-3: SIDEWALK DIVISIONS:
   A.   All sidewalks are hereby divided into two (2) districts, e.g. 1st
district, or business district, comprising all sidewalks within the fire limits
as now or hereafter established which district is again divided into two (2)
divisions namely, division A and division B. Division A shall consist of all
sidewalks in said fire limits described as follows:
On each side of G Street between 8th and 9th Streets; on the northwesterly side
of 8th Street between H Street and a point midway between H and G Streets; on
the southeasterly side of 8th Street between G Street and a point midway
between G Street and F Street; on the northwesterly side of 9th Street between
C Street and a point midway between G and F Street on the southeasterly side of
9th Street between H and F Streets; on the southwesterly side of F Street
between 9th and 13th Streets; on the northeasterly side of F Street between a
point midway between 10th and 11th Streets and a point midway between 11th and
12th Streets; on the northwesterly side of 13th Street between H and F Streets;
on each side of 12th Street from F Street to a point midway between F and G
Streets; on each side of 10th Street between F Street and a point midway
between G and F Streets, and division B shall consist of all other sidewalks in
the fire limits.
   B.   Second (2nd) or residence district, shall comprise all sidewalks not
included in the 1st district. (Ord. 80, 9-28-1920)
   C.   The sidewalk area shall be eight feet (8') in width on the following
streets:
      1.   Southeasterly side of 11th Street from the east line of East Avenue
to the northeasterly city limits line on 11th Street.
      2.   Northwesterly side of 11th Street from the north line of North
Avenue to the northeasterly city limits line on the northwesterly side of 11th
Street. (Ord. 316, 7-7-1959)
7-1-4: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Division A: In division A of the 1st district the artificial stone
walks shall be of same width and constructed in the same manner as in district
no. 2, and in division B of the 1st district the artificial stone walks shall
cover the whole sidewalk area except where the adjacent property is vacant or
only improved with a frame building. In such cases all the sidewalk area shall
be covered except a space two feet (2') in width adjacent and parallel to the
said property.
   B.   Division B: In the second (2nd) district the artificial stone walks
shall extend parallel with the property lines, and be uniformly five feet (5')
wide on twelve foot (12') and fifteen foot (15') sidewalks, and four feet (4')
wide on eight foot (8') and five foot (5') sidewalks. The inner edge of the
artificial stone walks shall be one foot (1') from the property line. On
intersection work the artificial stone walks shall extend on produced lines
parallel with the property line to the curb. All angles of intersection on the
artificial stone walks shall be relieved by a curb of twelve inch (12") radius.
(Ord. 80, 9-28-1920)
   C.   Materials: Materials shall be such as to meet the specifications for
such construction on file in the office of the public works director or his
designee. (1964 Code)
7-1-5: CONSTRUCTION OF CURBS, GUTTERS, SIDEWALKS AND PAVING REQUIRED; PERMIT
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   When any person constructs curbs and gutters on any dedicated street
abutting the property, the city will at its expense restore the paving on each
such street to the existing pavement.
   B.   Every person who constructs:
      1.   Any building in the city, except the construction of or addition to
a minor accessory structure not intended for family living; or
      2.   Adds to any building, except an addition to a residential building
which will not increase the enclosed area of such building intended for family
living; or
      3.   Constructs or adds to any off street parking facility, shall, except
to the extent the same are in place, dedicate any necessary street area and
provide for the construction of curbs, gutters, sidewalks and paving on all
public streets abutting the parcel of real property on which such construction
is done. Such street paving shall extend from the gutter to the centerline of
each abutting street or for a distance of eighteen feet (18') from the gutter
where such abutting street is not a full street. The work required to be done
in this subsection shall be done at the cost and expense of the property owner
or person doing such construction, except that, where street paving exists from
the centerline of the street toward the side of each street abutting such
property, the city will pave the unpaved portion of such street to the gutter.
   C.   A permit for any work to be done pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be applied for in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of chapter 5 of this title in addition to the special provisions provided in
this chapter. Such permit shall be issued, or an exception or deferral, as
provided in subsection
7-4-1B of this title, shall be granted prior to or in conjunction with the
issuance of any building permits or other permits for such property. (Ord. 561,
6-1-1976)
CHAPTER 2
TREES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Enforcing Authority
7-2-4: Master Tree List And Master Plan
7-2-5: Unlawful Plantings
7-2-6: Responsibility And Control
7-2-7: Tree Care, Planting, Removing And Replacement
7-2-8: Permit Requirements
7-2-9: Unlawful Acts
7-2-10: Protection Of Trees During Construction
7-2-11: Moving Buildings On Public Streets
7-2-12: Inspections, Removal
7-2-13: Appeal
7-2-1: PURPOSE:
The city council hereby finds that a comprehensive plan for the planting and
maintenance of trees which are located within, or which overhang, public
streets within the city is required for public safety and for the protection of
the general welfare. This chapter is adopted, therefore, for the purpose of
developing and providing for such a plan and for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations relating to the planting, care and maintenance of such
trees. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
CITY: The City of Reedley.
DIRECTOR: The Public Works Director, or designee, of the City.
OWNER: The legal owner of real property and shall not include a lessee or other
person occupying such property with the consent of the owner.
PARKSTRIP AREA: The area between the street curb and the public sidewalk.
PERSON: As used in this chapter shall be broadly construed to include an
individual, a firm, and association, a corporation, a copartnership, and the
lessees, trustees, receivers, agents, servants and employees of such person.
PUBLIC STREETS OR STREETS: Shall include all roads, streets, avenues,
boulevards, alleys, parkways, public places and public right of way, or any
portion thereof, of the City. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968; amd. Ord. 2022-008, 1-10-
2023)7-2-5
7-2-3: ENFORCING AUTHORITY:
It shall be the duty of the public works director to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968)
7-2-4: MASTER TREE LIST AND MASTER PLAN:
The resolution of the city planning commission dated November 21, 1968, which
sets forth a master tree list and policies and objectives of a program of tree
planting and control is hereby adopted as a master plan and master tree list
for the purposes of this chapter and is incorporated into this chapter by
reference the same as if fully stated herein. Revisions or changes in said
master tree list and master plan may be made from time to time by the Director
after submission of any such revisions or changes to the City Council for its
approval. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968; amd. Ord. 2022-008, 1-10-2023)
7-2-5: UNLAWFUL PLANTINGS:
No person shall plant any tree in any public street, nor within a public
utility easement or parkstrip, nor shall any tree be planted by any property
owner which may overhang any public street, without written approval from the
Director. Trees planted on private property shall not be planted within 5' of a
public sidewalk. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968; amd. Ord. 2022-008, 1-10-2023)
7-2-6: RESPONSIBILITY AND CONTROL:
The director shall be responsible for the administration of the chapter and the
relocating, planting, trimming, and replacing of all trees located within the
public streets or on public property.
Trees located on private property, or within the parkstrip area, which is
defined as the area between the street curb and the public sidewalk, are the
sole responsibility of the property owner and the property owner shall be
responsible for proper maintenance and care of the tree including irrigation
and removal should the tree die or become a hazard. The property owner shall be
responsible and liable for any and all damages to City property caused by the
tree including damaged sidewalk, curb and gutter, etc.
In Landscape and Lighting Maintenance Districts (LLMD); trees located within
the park strip area, which is defined as the area between the street curb and
the public sidewalk, and which were originally planted and permitted by the
City or planted by the property owner with written permission from the City
shall be maintained by the City. The property owner shall be responsible for
proper irrigation of the tree (s) and maintenance of all associated irrigation
piping. No tree shall be planted, trimmed, altered, or removed from the
parkstrip area without written permission from the City. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968;
amd. Ord. 2022-008, 1-10-2023)
7-2-7: TREE CARE, PLANTING, REMOVING AND REPLACEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person other than the director to cut, trim,
prune, spray, brace, plant, move or replace any tree in any public street
within the city, or to cause same to be done, unless and until a written permit
is obtained from the Director. Any such permit may be declared void by the
director if any of the provisions of this chapter are violated or if any
condition of the permit is violated. Whenever it is necessary to remove a tree
within a parkstrip area or a public right of way, the abutting property owner
of that portion of the public right of way or parkstrip area where the tree is
located, shall first secure a written permit from the director and provide
sufficient reason as to why tree must be removed. The owner shall replace the
tree with a tree on the master tree list and/or master tree plan unless a
written request to not replace the tree is provided to the Director and
approved.
Nothing in this section shall preclude the removal by city forces of any tree
without the request of the owner. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968; amd. Ord. 2022-008, 1-
10-2023)
7-2-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Owners: The owner of real property abutting a public street may be
issued a permit to perform any of the acts specified in section
7-2-7 of this chapter by the director. Such permit shall be for such time
duration, not exceeding six (6) months, and shall contain such conditions as
the director deems necessary for the protection of the trees concerned.
   B.   Public Utilities: Any person doing business as a public utility subject
to the jurisdiction of the public utilities commission of the state of
California and any duly constituted public agency authorized to provide and
providing utility service, may be given a permit from the director, valid for
one year from the date of issuance, permitting such person to trim, brace,
remove or perform such similar acts with respect to trees growing within the
public streets, as may be necessary to the city, or which overhang such public
streets, as may be necessary to comply with the safety regulations of said
commission or public agency and as may be necessary to maintain the safe
operation of its business.
   C.   Tree Surgeons: Any person whose principal business is tree surgery,
trimming or maintenance and who, in the opinion of the director, is qualified
for such business, may be issued a permit to carry on such business in the city
by the director. Permits issued pursuant to this section may be granted for a
period of one year from the date of issuance. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968)
7-2-9: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to break, injure, deface, mutilate, kill or
destroy any tree, or set fire or permit any fire to burn where such fire or the
heat thereof will injure any portion of any tree, nor shall any person place,
apply, attach or keep attached to any tree or to the guard or stake intended
for the protection thereof, any wire, rope, (other than one used to support a
young or broken tree) sign, paint, or any other substance, structure, thing or
device of any kind or nature whatsoever when trees are in the public right of
way, without first having obtained a written permit from the director so to do.
(Ord. 428, 12-17-1968)
7-2-10: PROTECTION OF TREES DURING CONSTRUCTION:
During the erection, repair, alteration or removal of any building, house or
structure in the city, no person shall leave any tree in any public street in
the vicinity of such building or structure, without such good and sufficient
guards or protectors as shall prevent injury to said tree. (Ord. 428, 12-17-
1968)
7-2-11: MOVING BUILDINGS ON PUBLIC STREETS:
No person shall move any building, house or portion thereof without notifying
the director in advance of such moving. Said notice shall designate the route
to be followed and all other details pertinent to such work. The director shall
have the authority to change such route and designate one which in his opinion
will cause less damage to trees owned by the city along and adjacent to said
route. If necessary to protect such trees, the director may require that said
house, building or portions thereof to be cut into segments small enough to fit
the available width between such trees along the designated route. As a
condition to approving any route for the moving of any building, house or
portion thereof, the director may require the person doing such work to enter
into an agreement to pay all costs incurred for any labor, equipment or
material used to protect or preserve such trees either before or after such
moving. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968)
7-2-12: INSPECTIONS, REMOVAL:
The director may inspect any tree adjacent to or overhanging any public street
in the city to determine whether the same or any portion thereof is in such a
condition as to constitute a hazard or impediment to the progress or vision of
anyone traveling on such public street. Any tree or part thereof growing upon
private property but overhanging or interfering with the use of any street that
in the opinion of the director endangers the life, health, safety or property
of the public utilizing the street shall be declared a public nuisance. If the
owner of such private property does not correct or remove such nuisance within
ten (10) days after receipt of written notice thereof from the director, said
director may cause the nuisance to be abated and the cost of such abatement
shall be paid by the owner within ten (10) days after being notified of the
cost thereof. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to impose any liability
upon the city, its officers or employees nor to relieve the owner of any
private property from the duty to keep any tree upon his property or under his
control in such a condition as to prevent it from constituting a public
nuisance as hereinabove defined. Nothing in this section shall preclude the
immediate removal or abatement by city forces of any obstruction, nuisance or
overhang that is a public safety hazard. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968)
7-2-13: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by any act or determination of the director in the
exercise of the authority herein granted shall have the right to appeal to the
city council, whose decision, after hearing said matter in a public meeting,
shall be final and conclusive. Such appeal shall be made in writing and shall
be filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days subsequent to the director's
action. (Ord. 428, 12-17-1968)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Findings, Purpose, And Application
7-3-2: Designation Of City Parks
7-3-3: Damage Prohibited
7-3-4: Miscellaneous Regulations
7-3-5: Camping, Use Reservations And Fees
7-3-6: Permit For Park Use
7-3-7: Park Reservations
7-3-8: Blocking Passageways
7-3-9: Rules And Regulations
7-3-10: Enforcement
7-3-11: Leash Free Dog Park Area Regulations
7-3-12: Splash Pad Area Regulations
7-3-1: FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND APPLICATION:
   A.   The City Council of the City of Reedley finds, and this chapter is
adopted in light of these findings, that it is in the public interest to
regulate the use of public parks and recreation areas in the City for meetings,
assemblies, activities or other events in order to ensure that such events are
carried out in a safe manner, in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere
with the use of such parks and recreation areas by other members of the general
public not participating in the event, and in a manner which does not damage
park property, playgrounds and other City property, including landscaping or
natural vegetation.
   B.   The terms "public park" or "recreation area" as used herein shall
include all park sites and City parks, whether formally designated, named, or
unnamed, and all land, lakes, rivers, beaches and roadside rests, together with
the improvements and facilities provided thereon or therein, which are owned or
operated by the City as a public park or public recreation area and the
provisions of this chapter shall apply thereto. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-2: DESIGNATION OF CITY PARKS:
The following areas are designated as City parks of the City:
C.F. Mueller Park
Camacho Park
Citizens Park
Cricket Hollow Park
Pioneer Park
Reedley Beach
Smith Ferry
Sports Park
Trimble Park
All other public parks and park sites, including City parks, whether formally
named or unnamed, owned by the City and all public school sites in the City
used to conduct City recreation programs, are City parks subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-3: DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any public park or recreation area to
pick or damage any flowers, foliage or fruit or to break, dig up or in any way
mutilate or damage any tree, shrub, plant, grass, railing, wall, seat, fence or
other structure or to cut, carve, write, paint or otherwise make any mark
thereon or to fasten to any tree, stone, fence, wall, monument or other
structure any sign, notice, advertisement or other inscription. No person may
dig up or remove any dirt, stone, or rock, make any excavation, lay or set off
any blast, or otherwise alter the natural features of any park or recreation
area without a written permit issued by the City. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-4: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within any public park or recreation area
to do any of the following:
   A.   Deposit, place, throw or in any manner dispose of any rubbish, trash,
garbage, can, bottle, glass or paper or any decaying or putrid matter of any
kind whatsoever except in containers provided for such purpose.
   B.   Contaminate, alter, or deposit or place any harmful substance into any
watershed, lake, river, or other water supply or water feature, and in this
respect it shall be unlawful to wash any clothing or cooking utensils in any
such waters.
   C.   Light any fire except in places specifically provided therefor, and all
dead wood, moss, dry leaves, chips or other combustible material which may have
gathered around any place provided for fires shall be carefully removed before
lighting any fire. When the fire is no longer needed, it shall be completely
extinguished with water.
   D.   Possess or use any fireworks of any kind whatsoever except for a public
display pursuant to a permit therefor.
   E.   Possess any firearm or discharge such firearm within, into or across
such park or recreation area, provided that this provision shall not apply to
any peace officer or concessionaire in the lawful discharge of his duty.
   F.   With regard to birds and animals:
      1.   Kill, wound, chase or capture any wild bird or animal; provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to the duly authorized agents of
the City in the necessary control of predatory birds or animals.
      2.   Hunt, pursue, annoy, throw any projectile(s) at, or molest or
disturb in any way any animal, bird or reptile within the confines of any park.
      3.   Permit any dog, cat, fowl or other domestic animal under his control
to enter or go at large within such park or recreation area; provided, however,
that this shall not apply to dogs upon a leash and under the immediate control
of the person in possession thereof; nor shall it apply to any leash free area
authorized by the City Council in any park.
   G.   Engage in gambling in any form.
   H.   With regard to vehicles:
      1.   Operate an automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle in excess of
posted speed limits or into any areas where signs prohibiting the same have
been placed.
      2.   Hang behind any vehicle, or to tow any vehicle of any kind in any
park, excepting, however, in case of break downs within the park, the disabled
vehicle may be towed to the nearest point of exit.
   I.   With regard to business practices:
      1.   Solicit, sell or peddle any food, drink, circulars, papers, goods,
wares or merchandise of any kind except pursuant to specific concession or
permit therefor secured from the City.
      2.   Promote, conduct or manage any game, contest, show, exhibition,
concert or lecture when an admission charge thereto is made or an offering
received except in strict accordance with a written permit issued by the City.
      3.   Distribute any handbills or circulars, or to post, place or erect
any bills, notice, paper or advertising device or matter of any kind.
      4.   Practice, carry on, conduct or solicit for any trade, occupation,
business or profession, without a written permit issued by the City.
   J.   Indulge in riotous, boisterous, threatening, indecent or immoral
conduct, or abusive, threatening, profane language, or to throw any projectile
(s) which may cause harm to any person or property.
   K.   With regard to game and play activities:
      1.   Play or engage in any game, excepting at such place as shall be
especially set apart for that purpose.
      2.   Engage in the following activities and/or games: discus throwing,
javelin throwing, field hockey, baseball (hardball), rock throwing, bean
shooters, gas model airplanes, fireworks, boomerangs, slingshots, air guns,
golf, and archery, except in officially designated areas.
   L.   Remain, stay or loiter in any public park or recreation area between
the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of
the following day, without a written permit issued by the City or as otherwise
authorized by a posted sign by the City at the park or recreation area.
   M.   Open, expose or interfere with any water or gas pipe, hydrant,
stopcock, sewer, basin or other construction in any park where prohibited.
   N.   With regard to alcoholic beverages:
      1.   Bring into any park, beach or recreation area, or possess or consume
in any such area, any alcoholic beverage without first obtaining a written
permit from the City, and said permit shall not allow the use, sale, or
consumption, of any alcoholic beverage after dusk, which must also be approved
by the Chief of Police. "Alcoholic beverage" includes alcohol, spirits, liquor,
wine, beer and any liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer,
and which contains one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume
and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone, when diluted, mixed or
combined with other substances.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection N1 of this section, it is unlawful to
bring into, possess, or consume alcoholic beverages at the Reedley Beach,
Cricket Hollow Park, Smith Ferry Park and Camacho Park, and no written permit
may be issued by the City authorizing the possession or consumption of
alcoholic beverages at these City parks except as approved by the City Council.
   O.   Smoking or the use of smokeless tobacco products as prohibited in title
4, chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-5: CAMPING, USE RESERVATIONS AND FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp within any park or recreation area
without having first secured a written permit from the City and paid the
applicable fee therefor to the City, and no person shall camp outside of a camp
site or site designated in such permit. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-6: PERMIT FOR PARK USE:
A written permit shall be obtained from the City prior to using any public park
or recreation area under the following circumstances:
   A.   Where any person, company, society, or organization wishes to reserve
and use the park or recreation area or any portion thereof for an event that is
reasonably likely or expected to attract more than twenty five (25) persons.
   B.   The term "event" as used herein includes, but is not limited to, any
picnic, celebration, parade, service, assemblage, meeting, gathering, activity,
or public or private exercise in any public park or recreation area.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to take part in any event at a
public park or recreation area conducted without a written permit from the City
as required by this chapter. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-7: PARK RESERVATIONS:
Persons desiring to reserve park and picnicking facilities must obtain a
written permit therefor from the City, and the City may assign and reserve
particular areas therefor on a first come, first serve basis. It shall be
unlawful for any person other than those designated in the permit to occupy any
areas so assigned when signs making known such reservations have been posted or
such persons have been otherwise informed thereof by any City officer or
employee. Any person desiring to reserve an area shall make a deposit with the
City in an amount established by resolution of the City Council. Said deposit
shall be for the purpose of guaranteeing that the person obtaining the
reservation will clean up the area and that no damage to any park property will
occur. Said deposit shall be returned if the area is left clean and no such
damage is committed. The City may retain the deposit, in whole or in part, in
an amount sufficient to cover the reasonable costs of any clean up or repair of
any damage. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-8: BLOCKING PASSAGEWAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to assemble, collect or gather in any walk,
driveway, passageway or pathway in any park or in any other place set apart for
the travel of persons or vehicles in or through any park or to occupy the same
so that the free passage or use thereof by persons or vehicles passing along
the same shall be obstructed in any manner. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
In order to promote the safety, comfort and convenience of persons using any
park or recreation area, the City Council may from time to time, by resolution,
adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter and make the same applicable generally or to a particular park or
recreation area or portion thereof. Such rules and regulations may include
regulating the speed of vehicles, establishing campsites, parking areas and
areas where parking or driving of vehicles is prohibited, areas where certain
games or activities are prohibited, and such other rules and regulations as in
the opinion of the City Council are necessary for the safety, comfort and
convenience of persons using such park or recreation area. When such rules and
regulations have been adopted and signs erected within the park or recreation
area or portions thereof affected thereby informing the public of the substance
of such rules and regulations, it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to
comply therewith. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-10: ENFORCEMENT:
The chief law enforcement official of this chapter shall be the Chief of
Police. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-11: LEASH FREE DOG PARK AREA REGULATIONS:
The enclosed dog park area at C.F. Mueller Park is designated as a leash free
(off leash) dog park area. Additional leash free (off leash) dog park areas may
be designated by City Council ordinance or resolution. The City reserves the
right to modify the regulations by ordinance or resolution, and the most
current adopted regulations shall be posted by the City at the dog park. It
shall be unlawful for any person using any authorized leash free dog park area
to not abide by the adopted and posted regulations, including the following:
   A.   Dog owners are legally responsible for their dog(s) and any injuries
caused by their dog(s). Use of the dog area is at owner's risk.
   B.   Dog handlers must be at least eighteen (18) years old and capable of
handling and controlling any dog under their care or custody in the off leash
area.
   C.   No dog(s) under the age of four (4) months shall be allowed in an off
leash dog area.
   D.   All dogs must have current vaccinations as required in section
5-3-17 of this Code.
   E.   All dogs must be licensed as required in section
5-3-15 of this Code. All licenses must be on the dog's collar and the collar
must be on the dog at all times.
   F.   No dog(s) in heat are allowed within the off leash dog area.
   G.   Owners/handlers may not have more than three (3) dogs with them in the
off leash area at any given time.
   H.   Dogs shall be escorted to and from the off leash area on a leash which
does not exceed six feet (6') in length.
   I.   Owners/handlers are responsible for the immediate removal of fecal
matter deposited in the off leash area by their dog(s). All feces must be
properly disposed of in the receptacles provided within the off leash area.
   J.   No aggressive dogs are allowed within the off leash area. A dog
displaying aggressive behavior toward any person or other dog must be
immediately removed from the park by its handler for the remainder of that day.
   K.   No children under the age of ten (10) are allowed in the off leash
area. Children ages 10 - 14 must be accompanied by an adult.
   L.   Sports activities, bicycles, picnics, and similar activities are
prohibited in the off leash dog area.
   M.   Dogs are required to wear a basic flat buckle collar, training collar,
or harness with identification tags at all times.
   N.   Violators of the stated rules may be removed from the park and park
privileges may be suspended.
   O.   The City of Reedley reserves the right to close the off leash dog area
at any time.
   P.   Dogs shall not be left unattended in the off leash dog area. Handlers
must be with the dog(s) at all times. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-2018)
7-3-12: SPLASH PAD AREA REGULATIONS:
A splash pad and associated water features are located at Trimble Park. The
City may install or place splash pads or water features at other City parks as
authorized by the City Council. The splash pad days and hours of operation
shall be posted on a sign at the park, along with applicable rules and
regulations. The splash pad and water features shall generally be open and
operational daily from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.,
from Memorial Day through Labor Day. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the
posted days and hours of operation, the splash pad and water features may be
closed or rendered nonoperational due to weather, maintenance or operation
concerns, or as otherwise determined by the City Manager. The City reserves the
right to modify the splash pad regulations by ordinance or resolution, and the
most current adopted regulations shall be posted by the City at the park. It
shall be unlawful for any person to not abide by the adopted and posted splash
pad area regulations, including the following:
   A.   The splash pad is not supervised by the City, and all participation is
at the participants' own risk.
   B.   The splash pad and water features may not be used for bathing any
person or animal, or cleaning any personal property.
   C.   All children under the age of ten (10) must be supervised by an adult
at least eighteen (18) years old.
   D.   Any child not toilet trained must wear a swim diaper on the splash pad.
   E.   Running, jumping and rough play is prohibited on the splash pad.
   F.   Climbing on or adjusting the water features is prohibited.
   G.   Bicycles, tricycles, skateboards, scooters, in-line skates, and any
other similar equipment are prohibited on the splash pad.
   H.   Food, drinks and any glass items are prohibited on the splash pad.
   I.   Pets and animals are prohibited on the splash pad.
   J.   Soap, detergent, shampoo, bubbles, paint, cleaning substances of any
kind, and any substance that could cause any drain or water feature to become
clogged or backed up is prohibited on the splash pad.
   K.   Persons with diarrhea within the past fourteen (14) days, or persons
with contagious skin conditions or open wounds are not permitted.
   L.   Swim shoes are recommended on the splash pad.
   M.   Any person who damages the splash pad or any water feature may be
subject to civil or criminal citations and penalties. (Ord. 2018-004, 8-28-
2018)
CHAPTER 4
STREETS AND ALLEYS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Grading And Paving
7-4-2: Load Restrictions
7-4-3: Equipment Required
7-4-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-4-1: GRADING AND PAVING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section the following words shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
    BUILDING: Any building, structure, or improvement for which a building
permit is required under the uniform building code of this city, not including
repairs, extensions or renovations, unless cost thereof exceeds thirty percent
(30%) of the estimated market value of the premises exclusive of land values.
   IMPROVEMENTS: Curbs, gutters, sidewalks and required utilities in the right
of way between property line and the street.
   PREMISES: The building site on which said building is located or on which
the proposed building is to be located, as to that portion thereof abutting on
a public street. (Ord. 376, 5-4-1965; amd. Ord. 573, 3-1-1977)
   B.   Deferral Of Required Improvements: Public improvements required to be
installed in conjunction with on site improvements may be deferred under the
following circumstances:
      1.   Where the city engineer, on behalf of the public works department,
finds and determines that the area drainage facilities are inadequate and that
the installation of all or a portion of the required public improvements would
endanger the public welfare by reason thereof; or
      2.   Where the city engineer determines that it would be in the best
interests of the city to cause all or a portion of the required work to be done
on an area project basis rather than on an individual basis; or
      3.   Where the city council finds and determines that such requirements,
as applied to an individual property by reason of an exceptional or
extraordinary situation or the condition of such property, or the location
thereof, or of the use or development of property in the immediate vicinity of
such property, will involve practical difficulties or would cause undue
hardship unnecessary to carry out the purposes and spirit of this chapter.
No such deferral shall be granted nor become effective unless and until an
agreement between the property owner and the city is properly executed agreeing
that the property owner will undertake the construction of the required
improvements as required by these regulations within ninety (90) days after
notice to begin the construction of such improvements is sent by the city to
the property owner. Such agreement shall further provide that in the event of
default in undertaking and completing the required improvements within the time
specified, the city may cause such work to be done and the cost thereof to be
assessed as a lien against the property. Such agreement shall recite that it
runs with the land and shall be recorded in order to constitute notice to any
prospective buyers or encumbrancers. (Ord. 561, 6-1-1976)
   C.   Inspection Expenses: All expenses for inspection shall be paid by the
contractor. (Ord. 48, 3-21-1916)
   D.   Installation Prerequisite To Issuance Of Building Permit: No building
permit shall be issued by the city under the city building code for any
building on any premises unless improvements around the premises are already
installed. No building permit shall be issued by the city under said code to
remodel any building in excess of thirty percent (30%) of the estimated market
value unless improvements around the premises are already installed. If all of
such improvements are not already installed, no building permit shall be issued
until and unless the permittee agrees to install such improvements not already
installed, by a written agreement filed with the city.
   E.   Standards For And Time Of Construction:
      1.   General: Construction of improvements shall be made by the
permittee, as provided in the agreement provided for in subsection D of this
section, in accordance with city standards, and shall begin within thirty (30)
days and be completed in not later than ninety (90) days from the date of the
building permit.
      2.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding the city standards, if sidewalk or curb
already exists along the street in the block, then such improvements need be
installed only to the mean standard of existing ones. (Ord. 376, 5-4-1965)
7-4-2: LOAD RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall cause or permit to be carried, hauled, or drawn on any truck,
dray, or other vehicle belonging to him, or in his charge or under his control,
any load exceeding ten thousand (10,000) pounds in weight upon any portion of
the paved streets or sidewalks; providing the hauling or removing of a single
article weighing more than ten thousand (10,000) pounds, which cannot be
reduced in weight, shall be permitted by this section. (Ord. 72, 4-20-1920)
7-4-3: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
No person shall cause or permit to be carried, hauled or drawn on any truck,
dray or other vehicle belonging to him or in his charge or under his control
upon any portion of the paved streets or sidewalks any load exceeding six
thousand (6,000) pounds in weight unless the tires of the wheels of said truck
or dray or other vehicle shall be at least four inches (4") in width, when the
load exceeding six thousand (6,000) pounds and not exceeding ten thousand
(10,000) pounds is carried; and at least five inches (5") in width with the
load exceeding ten thousand (10,000) pounds and not exceeding twelve thousand
(12,000) pounds is carried. (Ord. 72, 4-20-1920)
7-4-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Spilling: No person shall cause or permit to be carried, hauled or
drawn on any truck, dray or other vehicle belonging to him, or in his charge or
under his control upon any portion of the paved streets or sidewalk any crushed
rock, gravel, small stone, brick or any other similar substance unless such
substance shall be securely contained in a container on such vehicle and loaded
so that none of such substances may drop from said container onto the street or
sidewalk.
   B.   Deposits On Streets: No person shall cause or permit to be deposited
upon any portion of the paved streets or sidewalks any crushed rock, gravel,
brick or similar substances without first obtaining a written permit so to do
from the public works director or his designee. (Ord. 72, 4-20-1920)
CHAPTER 5
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Permit Requirements
7-5-3: Agreement To Work Specifications
7-5-4: Bond Or Deposit Required
7-5-5: Exceptions For Public Utility Or Agency
7-5-6: Standards, Terms And Conditions
7-5-7: Consent Of Property Owner
7-5-8: Conditions Of Work
7-5-9: Restoration Of Public Ways
7-5-10: Notice Of Work Completion
7-5-11: Awnings
7-5-12: Outdoor Dining In Public Rights Of Way
7-5-13: Failure To Comply With Regulations
7-5-14: Performance Of Obligation By Agent Or Employee
7-5-15: Other Remedies
7-5-16: Violation; Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
PUBLIC WAY: The space between the right of way lines and includes, but is not
confined to, any street, alley, parking zone or sidewalk.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The public works director of the city, or his designee.
(Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
encroachment, excavation or improvement in or along any public way in the city
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city, and unless in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to remove, top or trim any trees
standing in any public way without first obtaining a permit to do so from the
city and unless in accordance with the provisions of chapter 2 of this title.
(Ord. 555, 3-2-1976; amd. 2007 Code)
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to operate any overwidth vehicle,
including house moving equipment, on the city streets, alleys or rights of way
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city, and unless in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Permit Application; Contents: Each person desiring issuance of a permit
shall file with the public works director a signed application or request,
describing the nature of the encroachment, excavation, improvement or other
work to be done and the location thereof, the names and addresses of the
parties to any contract for the doing of the work, the license number of any
contractor, and such plans, profiles and specifications for the improvement as
the public works director may require.
   C.   Permit Fees:
      1.   The agreement mentioned in section
7-5-3 of this chapter shall be signed by the person causing the work or
excavation to be done, or if such work is to be done by a licensed contractor,
then it may be signed by such contractor. (Ord. 55, 3-2-1976)
      2.   The signator of the agreement shall pay to the city, prior to the
issuance of any permit, a fee in an amount as set from time to time by
resolution of the city council. Failure to undertake the work shall not be
grounds for refund of any part of such fee. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976; amd. 2007
Code)
      3.   No fee shall be required of any public agency or public utility
company operating under a franchise issued by the city or state.
   D.   Permit Issuance:
      1.   Refer Application To City Council: If the public works director
determines that unusual circumstances make it advisable, he may refuse to grant
the permit and submit the application to the city council for consideration.
      2.   Appeals: If the public works director denies an application or
imposes terms or conditions which the applicant believes to be unreasonable, or
sets the amount of bond or deposit which the applicant believes to be
unreasonable, the applicant may appeal to the city council for issuance of the
permit.
      3.   Determination By City Council: Upon any such referral or appeal the
city council shall determine whether the permit shall be issued and/or the
terms and conditions thereof and/or the amount of bond or deposit; and the
decision of the city council shall be final.
   E.   Permit Issuance Not Mandatory: Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed
to make it mandatory that the public works director or the city council issue
any such permit.
   F.   Permit Displayed: The permit shall be shown on demand to all authorized
representatives or peace officers of the city.
   G.   Permit Nontransferable: No permit may be assigned; and upon any
attempted assignment or transfer thereof, the permit shall be rendered null and
void.
   H.   Permit Revocation Or Suspension:
      1.   If the public works director determines that the work has not been
commenced within sixty (60) days after issuance of the permit, or has not been
diligently prosecuted, he may revoke the permit.
      2.   If the public works director determines that the work has not been
diligently prosecuted, or is not being carried out in accordance with the
agreement and/or terms and conditions of the permit, he may suspend the permit.
      3.   Such revocation or suspension shall be accomplished by the mailing
of written notice thereof by ordinary mail to the address shown upon the
application or agreement or by personal delivery of such written notice to the
permittee. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-3: AGREEMENT TO WORK SPECIFICATIONS:
Before such permit may be issued an agreement shall be signed and filed with
the public works director wherein the signatory shall agree with the city as
follows:
   A.   That the signatory shall observe and conform with all of the applicable
provisions of this chapter, and shall perform all work in strict accordance
with this chapter and applicable ordinances of the city and laws of the state,
and in conformity to the plans, profiles and specifications on file with and
approved by the public works director and in accordance with such standards,
terms and conditions mentioned in section
7-5-6 of this chapter and as may be determined and specified by the director of
public works;
   B.   That such work shall be commenced and diligently prosecuted within
sixty (60) days after issuance of such permit, and substantially completed
within the time designated by the public works director in such permit, and
that such work shall be forthwith terminated upon any revocation or suspension
of the permit as provided in subsection
7-5-2H of this chapter;
   C.   To complete, repair or replace, and indemnify the city against any
faulty or improper workmanship or materials, or damage to any adjacent public
improvement that may be discovered during the performance of the work and for a
term of one year after the completion of the work;
   D.   That the signator shall hold the city, its officers, agents and
employees harmless from any and all liabilities, claims, suits, judgments,
losses or expenses resulting from any claim or court action arising out of any
accident, loss or damage to persons or property, or death alleged to arise from
any work carried out pursuant to such permit or condition resulting from such
work; and
   E.   Authorizing the city to deduct from any cash deposit, the amount of any
expense incurred by the city, including a reasonable amount for overhead and
supervision, in the completion of any work or the performance of any other act
required of the signator, if the signator fails to properly and timely perform
the same. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-4: BOND OR DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   The signator of such agreement shall deposit with the finance director
a bond issued by a corporation licensed to transact business in the state,
which shall guarantee the faithful performance of the agreement mentioned in
subsections
7-5-3A, B and C of this chapter.
   B.   In lieu of such bond, the signator of such agreement may deposit with
the finance director cash to secure the faithful performance of the agreement
mentioned in subsections
7-5-3A, B and C of this chapter; and the city shall be entitled to deduct from
such deposit the expense to the city for completion of the work or repair of
such damage by the city if the signator fails to so perform the same.
   C.   The amount of such bond or deposit shall be such reasonable sum as the
public works director shall determine to be the probable expense to the city
for completion of the work if the signator fails to fully perform the work and
repair of any probable damage, in accordance with the terms of the agreement
and permit.
   D.   Such bond or deposit shall not be deemed to be in the nature of a labor
and material bond.
   E.   On expiration of one year from the date of completion of the work, the
bondsman may apply to the city council for release or exoneration of the bond,
or any depositor of such fund or his assigns may apply to the city council for
release of his deposit, subject however to the claims of the city for failure
to faithfully perform said agreement; provided further, that in the case of
cash deposits, that upon completion of the work to the satisfaction of the
public works director and certification of such fact to the city council and
the amount required in his opinion to protect the city against any faulty or
improper workmanship or materials or damage to any adjacent public works that
may be discovered within one year after completion, the city council shall
withhold such amount and release the balance of the deposit to the depositor
thereof or his assigns.
   F.   Persons who frequently undertake activities which are the subject of
this chapter and who find it convenient to do so, may enter into a general
agreement with the city in the form required by section
7-5-3 of this chapter which applies to all such activities which are the
subject of this chapter carried on by the signator of such agreement while such
agreement is in effect, and who shall furnish the city and deposit with the
finance director a bond or deposit which guarantees the faithful performance of
the agreement mentioned in subsections 7-5-3A, B and C of this chapter with
respect to all such activities undertaken while such agreement remains in
effect. The amount of such bond or deposit shall be such reasonable sum as the
public works director determines to be the probable expense to the city for
completion of any work which the signator may fail to fully perform and the
repair of any probable damage to any adjacent public work, and to protect the
city against any faulty or improper workmanship or materials or damage to any
adjacent public works that may be discovered within one year after completion;
and from time to time the public works director may require additional bonds or
deposits if he determines that the extent or nature of the work carried on by
such person reasonably requires increased protection for any of the foregoing
purposes. No further permits shall be issued under such general agreement and
bond until the additional bond or deposit is furnished to the finance director.
Such bond or deposit is subject to release or exoneration as provided in
subsection E of this section. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
   G.   For work which does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the
public works director, within his sole discretion may, in lieu of the above
mentioned bond or cash deposit, enter into a written agreement without security
with the permittee. Said agreement, which shall be in addition to the agreement
mentioned in subsections
7-5-3A, B and C of this chapter, shall provide that permittee undertake
improvements upon the encroached property after written notification from the
city. The agreement shall further provide that the work must be completed
within ninety (90) days or such other date specified by the public works
director or the city may cause the work to be done and the costs assessed as a
lien against the property. Said agreement shall be in the form of covenants
which will attach to and run with the land. The city shall cause the agreement
to be recorded in the county recorder's office, the recording fee to be paid by
the permittee. After successful completion of the improvements or payment of
the lien, the permittee may apply to the city council for release of the
agreement.
   H.   For work in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and for good
cause shown, the city council may, in its sole discretion, enter into an
agreement without security as provided in subsection G of this section. (Ord.
585, 9-6-1977)
7-5-5: EXCEPTIONS FOR PUBLIC UTILITY OR AGENCY:
The following exceptions and special provisions shall apply with respect to
public agencies and public utility companies operating under a franchise issued
by the city or state:
   A.   No bond or deposit is required;
   B.   Annual permits may be issued, in which case the agreement provided in
section
7-5-3 of this chapter shall be modified accordingly;
   C.   The provisions of subsection
7-5-6C1 of this chapter shall not apply to public agencies or such public
utility companies;
   D.   No permit is required for the placement or replacement of utility poles
and/or anchors; provided that no public improvement is likely to be disturbed
or damaged thereby. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-6: STANDARDS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Except as may be otherwise provided in this chapter, the standards of
design and materials and the method of doing the work for any curb, gutter,
sidewalk, pavement, ramp, subgrade or drainage facility are as set forth in the
subdivision provisions, title 11,
chapter 5 of this code.
   B.   The public works director may in his discretion, permit modifications
of the standards mentioned in the preceding subsection to conform with
prevailing standards of other improvements in the area of the proposed
improvement if he finds that such modifications will not be detrimental to the
public interest.
   C.   The public works director shall have authority to determine and
specify:
      1.   The standards of design, materials and method of doing work for any
improvement for which no standard is provided by this section;
      2.   The location and grades of all improvements;
      3.   The days or hours and conditions on or under which such work may be
done, if necessary to conform to any public work in progress or about to be
undertaken, or as may be necessary to prevent any undue interference with
traffic or to protect the public safety;
      4.   Devices and precautions necessary for the protection of the public
way, or public improvements or public utilities standing or lying therein, and
the safety of the persons using the public way and to prevent any undue
interference with traffic thereon.
   D.   Conformity with the standards, terms and conditions mentioned in this
section shall be deemed to be a condition of the permit and part of the
agreement mentioned in section
7-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-7: CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER:
The issuance of any permit shall not be deemed to imply or guarantee in any way
that the city owns fee title to the real property on which the work is to be
done, nor that the city has sufficient title to the real property to grant the
permittee the right to do work under the surface of the public way. It is the
sole responsibility of the permittee to secure such consent as may be necessary
from the owner of public way or any other property upon which such work or
excavation is done. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-8: CONDITIONS OF WORK:
   A.   Notice Of Commencement: Immediately prior to commencement of any part
of the work, the permittee shall notify the public works director of the time
thereof. If the work stops for a period of more than ten (10) days, the
permittee shall notify the public works director of the time of resumption
thereof.
   B.   Additional Requirements: At any time prior to completion of the work,
the public works director may prescribe such additional conditions as he may
deem necessary for the protection of any public way or improvements or any
public utilities standing or lying therein, and the safety of the persons using
the public ways and to prevent any undue interference with traffic.
   C.   Safety Precautions: The permittee shall take all precautions necessary
to protect the safety of the traveling public. Barricades, lights, warning
signs and flaggers shall be provided and maintained by the permittee whenever
necessary, at his own expense, until any excavation is refilled or obstruction
removed, and the public way is safe for the use of the traveling public. The
public works director may specify in the permit the safety devices and
precautions to be used by the permittee; provided, however, failure of the
public works director to specify such safety devices or precautions shall not
relieve the permittee of any obligation to furnish all of the safety devices or
precautions which may be necessary. Warning signs, lights and devices shall
conform to the requirements of Vehicle Code section 21400. If the public works
director finds, at any time, that suitable safeguards or precautions are not
provided by the permittee, the public works director may provide and maintain
such safeguards or precautions as he deems necessary or he may revoke or
suspend the permit as provided in subsection
7-5-2H of this chapter and restore the public way to its former condition, all
at the expense of the permittee.
   D.   Removal Of Debris: The permittee shall not allow unreasonable amounts
of debris to accumulate upon the public way, and if the public works director
determines that the accumulation of debris is such as to be a hazard to the
safety of the persons using the public way or to prevent any undue interference
with the traffic thereon, he may order the permittee to remove the debris, and
failure of the permittee to do so shall constitute a grounds for revocation or
suspension of the permit, as provided in subsection
7-5-2H of this chapter, and/or the city may remove the debris at the expense of
the permittee. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-9: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
Immediately upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the permittee
shall refill any and all excavations or remove any obstructions in the public
way in a good and workmanlike manner. All excavations shall be refilled in a
manner to ensure against settlement. Saturated or unsuitable materials shall be
removed from the excavation and the excavation shall be backfilled with
suitable materials and thoroughly tamped. If a treated or modified subgrade of
a public way has been removed and destroyed as a result of the excavation, the
permittee shall replace the subgrade to a thickness of not less than that of
the adjacent subgrade. Crushed rock may be used to replace modified subgrade.
If a treated or modified surface of a public way has been removed and destroyed
as a result of an excavation, the permittee shall replace the surface to a
thickness and width not less than that of the original surface, and he shall
use the same type of material as the original surface. All work performed
pursuant to this section shall be to the satisfaction of the public works
director. If the permittee fails or refuses to repair and restore the public
way or any subgrade to the satisfaction of the public works director within a
reasonable time, the public works director shall cause the damaged portion of
the public way or subgrade to be repaired and restored and the permittee shall
reimburse the city for the full cost of such work. If at any time subsequent to
the first repair of the surface or subgrade it becomes necessary to again
repair the surface or subgrade due to settlement or any other cause directly
attributed to such excavation or construction, the public works director shall
cause such repairs to be made and the permittee shall reimburse the city for
the full cost of the additional repairs. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-10: NOTICE OF WORK COMPLETION:
Upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the permittee shall file
with the public works director the notice of completion of work on a form
prescribed by the director. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-11: AWNINGS:
   A.   Kinds Allowed: No awning, except folding or rolling canvas awnings,
shall be constructed over the sidewalks within the fire limits, without
permission of the city council.
   B.   Height Limits: All such awnings shall be at least six feet (6') from
the sidewalk at the lowest point. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-12: OUTDOOR DINING IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the regulations and standards in this section
is to allow increased business and pedestrian activity by providing safe and
visually appealing opportunities for outside dining in public rights of way in
the area described as follows:
Both sides of G Street to the first easterly and westerly alleys, between 10th
Street and 12th Street; properties fronting on 11th Street from F Street to the
first westerly alley; properties fronting on the south side of 12th Street,
between the first easterly and westerly alleys from G Street.
   B.   Definitions:
    OUTDOOR DINING: As applied in this section, means the use of public rights
of way by a licensed eating establishment for the placement of a limited number
of tables and chairs for the serving and consumption of food and/or beverages.
   RIGHTS OF WAY: Sidewalks abutting the frontage of an eating establishment.
   C.   Encroachment Permit Required For Outdoor Dining: Outdoor dining is
allowed in public rights of way subject to issuance of an encroachment permit
pursuant to this section.
   D.   Where Permissible: Outdoor dining is not permitted where the speed,
volume or proximity of vehicular traffic is not compatible with sidewalk
dining, as determined by the city engineer. All outdoor dining areas must be
adjacent to and incidental to the operation of an indoor restaurant. Use of the
sidewalk must be confined to the actual sidewalk and public right of way
frontage of the indoor restaurant building.
   E.   Required Sidewalk Width: Outdoor dining is permitted only where the
sidewalk is wide enough to adequately accommodate both the usual pedestrian
traffic in the area and the operation of the proposed activity. The outdoor
dining area shall leave not less than five (5) continuous feet of sidewalk
width at every point which is clear and unimpeded for pedestrian traffic.
   F.   Alcoholic Beverages: The service and consumption of alcoholic beverages
shall be permitted in an outdoor dining area provided that alcoholic beverage
sales are permitted by the underlying zoning and subject to issuance of a
conditional use permit in accordance with title 10,
chapter 18 of this code. The service of alcoholic beverages shall be restricted
solely to on premises consumption by customers within the outdoor dining area.
Alcoholic beverages may be served with full meals only. The operator shall post
a written notice to customers that the drinking or carrying of an open
container of alcoholic beverage is prohibited and unlawful outside the outdoor
dining area. The outdoor dining operation must be duly licensed by the state
department of alcoholic beverage control.
   G.   Health Standards: The operator shall not permit the following outside
the building: food preparation, tables preset with utensils, glasses, napkins,
condiments, busing service stations or trash and garbage storage. All exterior
surfaces within the outdoor dining area shall be easily cleanable and shall be
kept clean at all times by the operator. Restrooms sufficient for indoor and
outdoor dining shall be provided in the adjoining indoor restaurant. The
operator shall be responsible for maintaining the outdoor dining area,
including the sidewalk surface and furniture and adjacent areas, in a clean and
safe condition.
   H.   Hours Of Operation: Hours of operation for outdoor dining areas shall
not exceed those of the adjoining indoor restaurant.
   I.   Special Closures: Outdoor dining, pursuant to an encroachment permit,
is an interruptible or terminable privilege. The city shall have the right and
power, acting through the city manager, to prohibit or interrupt the operation
of an outdoor dining area at any time because of anticipated or actual problems
or conflicts in the use of the sidewalk area. Such problems and conflicts may
arise from, but are not limited to, scheduled festivals and similar events, or
parades or marches, or repairs to the street or sidewalk, or from emergencies
occurring in the area. To the extent possible, the permittee shall be given
notice of any time period during which the operation of the outdoor dining area
will be prohibited by the city.
   J.   Permit Issuance, Findings And Conditions: The city engineer is
authorized to issue the necessary encroachment permit for use of designated
portions of the right of way subject to all applicable provisions of this
chapter. The city engineer shall condition the permit on:
      1.   Execution of an agreement holding the city harmless against claims
from the applicant, patrons of the outdoor dining area, and pedestrians, in a
form acceptable to the city attorney.
      2.   The operator providing the city with proof of general liability
insurance with minimum coverage of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
per occurrence which lists the city as an additional insured on the endorsement
and specifies location and circumstances. For those businesses licensed by the
department of alcoholic beverage control to serve alcoholic beverages in
outdoor dining areas, the liability coverage described in the preceding
sentence shall be increased to one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      3.   Such other conditions as are necessary for public safety or to
protect public improvements, including the hours of operation and term of the
permit, and the extent and location of tables and chairs permitted.
      4.   Conditions necessary to restore the appearance of the city right of
way to its original condition on termination of use.
   K.   Revocation: An encroachment permit for outdoor dining may be revoked by
the city engineer following notice to the permittee, as provided in subsection
7-5-2H of this chapter. The permit may be revoked if one or more conditions of
the permit or of this section have been violated or if the outdoor dining area
is being operated in a manner which constitutes a nuisance, or the operation of
the outdoor dining area unduly impedes or restricts the movement of pedestrians
past the outdoor dining area.
   L.   Appeal Procedure: In accord with the following provisions, any
applicant or other interested person dissatisfied with any decision made under
this section may appeal such decision to the city council in accordance with
subsection
7-5-2D2 of this chapter.
   M.   Enforcement: The city engineer, community development director and
chief of police, or other person authorized by the city manager, shall be
authorized to enforce provisions of this section and to take such action as may
be necessary to ensure compliance with the regulations, general provisions or
conditions imposed upon the encroachment permit for outdoor dining. (Ord. 95-
003, 2-28-1995)
7-5-13: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS:
It is unlawful for the permittee to make or cause to be made any excavation,
encroachment or construction, or to place upon, maintain or leave any
obstruction or impediment to travel, or to pile or place any material in or
upon any highway, or to install or maintain, or to cause to be installed or
maintained, any tank, pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel, curb, gutter, sidewalk or
other structure in, upon or under the surface of any public way at any location
or in any manner other than as set forth in the application for the permit or
the agreement or contrary to the standards provided in this chapter or any
terms or conditions imposed by the public works director as in this chapter
provided. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-14: PERFORMANCE OF OBLIGATION BY AGENT OR EMPLOYEE:
Performance of any of the duties and obligations imposed upon a permittee by
the permit or this chapter by an agent, employee or independent contractor
employed by the permittee shall be deemed to constitute performance of such
duties and obligations by the permittee. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-15: OTHER REMEDIES:
No provision of this chapter shall be deemed to bar any legal, equitable or
summary remedy to which the city or any person may otherwise be entitled. (Ord.
555, 3-2-1976)
7-5-16: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon the conviction thereof, shall be punishable as prescribed
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 555, 3-2-1976)
CHAPTER 6
REEDLEY AIRPORT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions:
7-6-2: Airport Operations
7-6-3: Registration Of Aircraft
7-6-4: Aircraft Operations
7-6-5: Agricultural Aircraft Operations
7-6-6: Business Or Commercial Activities
7-6-7: Restricted Areas
7-6-8: Airport Rules And Regulations
7-6-9: Work On Aircraft
7-6-10: Airport Fees
7-6-11: Insurance Requirements
7-6-12: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-6-13: Liability
7-6-14: Exceptions To Provisions
7-6-15: Violations; Penalties:
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
AIRPORT: The Reedley municipal airport.
AIRPORT MANAGER: The airport manager, as appointed by the city manager subject
to approval of the city council, or the airport manager's duly authorized
representative. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-2: AIRPORT OPERATIONS:
   A.   The airport shall be open for public use at all hours of the day and
night subject to the restrictions due to inclement weather, the conditions of
the landing area and like causes as shall be determined by the airport manager
to be in the interest of safety.
   B.   No aeronautical activity shall be conducted at the airport except in
conformance with the current federal airport regulations. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-3: REGISTRATION OF AIRCRAFT:
The owners of all aircraft based on the airport, all tenants and all operators
storing aircraft on the premises shall be required to register said aircraft
with the airport manager and shall change the registration at any time a change
in ownership or operator shall occur. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-4: AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS:
   A.   Traffic Patterns: The aircraft traffic patterns applicable to the
airport shall be as follows:
      1.   Traffic patterns will be flown by the east side of the airport.
Right pattern when using runway thirty-four (34) and left pattern when using
runway sixteen (16).
      2.   The altitude in the patterns will be one thousand four hundred feet
(1,400') above mean sea level at a distance of one-half (1/2) mile parallel to
the runway for the downwind leg.
      3.   Entry into the traffic pattern shall be from a forty five degree
(45°) angle at a point downwind from the center of the runway.
      4.   The entry leg shall be of sufficient length to determine traffic in
the pattern.
      5.   Operators of aerial applicator aircraft may depart in either
direction straight out, with no turns permitted, until reaching one-half (1/2)
mile from the end of the runway.
      6.   Aircraft equipped with a two-way radio shall announce their position
when approaching within five (5) miles of the airport and also when within the
traffic pattern.
      7.   Under calm or light and variable wind conditions, the preferred
runway will be thirty-four (34).
   B.   Takeoffs And Landings: Takeoffs and landings from or on the airport
shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   All cockpit and engine checks shall be made prior to taxiing into
position for takeoff.
      2.   Before taxiing an aircraft into position on the runway for takeoff,
the base leg and final approach shall be clear.
      3.   Aircraft landing at the airport shall make the landing runway
available to others by leaving the active runway as promptly as possible.
      4.   All takeoffs and landings of aircraft shall be made on the runway
only.
      5.   All initial takeoffs of fixed wing aircraft shall be made from the
end of the runway.
      6.   Landing and takeoff directions shall be determined by the windsock
located in the segmented circle and the direction of other traffic visually.
      7.   Under calm or light and variable wind conditions, the preferred
runway will be thirty three (33).
      8.   Departures from the airport shall be accomplished by maintaining
runway heading to at least five hundred feet (500') above ground level and one-
half (1/2) mile beyond the end of the runway before making a first turn.
      9.   Unwarranted low flying within the confines of the traffic pattern is
prohibited.
   C.   Parking Of Aircraft: Parking of aircraft at the airport shall be
accomplished in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Privately owned aircraft shall be parked only in a tiedown area or
in a hangar or shelter.
      2.   Transient aircraft shall be parked in the tiedown area in places
designated by the airport manager.
      3.   Flying school and rental aircraft shall be parked only in the flight
lines assigned to them by the airport manager.
      4.   At the direction of the airport manager, the owner or pilot of any
aircraft on the airport shall move the aircraft from the place where it is
parked or stored to any place designated on the airport. If the operator
refuses to comply with directions, the airport manager may tow the aircraft to
such place at the operator's expense and without liability for damage that may
result from such moving.
      5.   It shall be the responsibility of the operator of any airplane using
the airport to tiedown their airplane.
      6.   No airplane shall be stopped or parked in any area of the Reedley
municipal airport that is so posted or marked by the airport manager.
   D.   Starting Aircraft Engines:
      1.   No persons shall attempt to start an engine of any airplane unless a
certificated pilot or aircraft mechanic is at the controls of said airplane.
      2.   No person, unassisted, shall attempt to hand start an engine of any
airplane unless such airplane is properly secured.
      3.   No aircraft shall be started or run unless the aircraft is in such a
position that the propeller or rotor blast will clear all buildings or people.
   E.   Taxiing: Pilots shall taxi their aircraft slowly and display extreme
caution at all times subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Near any hangar, shelter or tiedown area, airplanes shall be taxied
at speeds not exceeding five (5) mph using minimum engine rpm.
      2.   Taxiing in and out of hangars is prohibited.
      3.   No aircraft shall be operated on the ground so as to create a dust
problem, injury to persons, or damage to property. (Ord. 2000-01, 2-22-2000;
amd. Ord. 2024-011, 12-17-2024)
7-6-5: AGRICULTURAL AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS:
Operators of agricultural aircraft shall observe the following regulations at
all times:
   A.   Airplanes shall be loaded only in areas designated by the airport
manager.
   B.   Empty sacks, drums and other containers of agricultural chemicals shall
be removed from the loading areas daily. All nonreturnable containers shall be
removed from the airport property by the applicator and disposed of at the
county disposal site when requested by the airport manager.
   C.   All state and federal rules and regulations regarding the storage and
maintenance of agricultural chemicals shall be complied with.
   D.   Aircraft and ground equipment shall be cleaned and/or flushed in an
area designated by the airport manager. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-6: BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall engage in any
business or commercial activity of any nature on the airport property without
appropriate licenses and permits as required by law and under such terms and
conditions as may be prescribed by the city. Emergency repair of transient
aircraft will be allowed by transient mobile mechanics subject to the airport
manager's approval. Mobile mechanics who are working on Reedley based aircraft
will be allowed to work under the following conditions:
   A.   Prior notification shall be given by the aircraft owner to the airport
manager.
   B.   Aircraft repairs shall be done within a hangar, unless permission is
granted by the airport manager.
   C.   Aircraft repairs done outside a hangar shall be done within an area
cordoned off for safety and approved by the airport manager.
   D.   Mechanics must obtain and keep current a Reedley city business license.
   E.   Mechanics must possess and keep current the proper certification to
repair aircraft and, if requested, display the certification to the airport
manager.
   F.   Mechanics shall abide by the city's airport rules and regulations.
   G.   Mechanics shall provide a certificate of insurance with coverage
amounts and applicable endorsements as required by the city, and as amended
from time to time. (Ord. 2002-07, 10-8-2002; amd. Ord. 2024-011, 12-17-2024)
7-6-7: RESTRICTED AREAS:
When the airport manager determines that public safety or convenience so
requires, he may designate any area on the airport as a restricted area and
post appropriate signs. No person shall enter any restricted area without the
express permission of the airport manager. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-8: AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Motor Vehicles: The operation of any motor vehicle, motorcycle or
bicycle on airport property is subject to the following conditions:
      1.   All vehicles coming into the airport shall yield right of way to any
aircraft.
      2.   Vehicle speed on the airport property shall not exceed ten (10) mph.
      3.   No vehicle shall be parked on, or near, any taxiway or runway so as
to impede aircraft movement.
      4.   No vehicle shall be parked in place of an airplane in any tiedown
space.
      5.   Parking next to an airplane to load, unload or perform minor
maintenance will be allowed if the driver of the vehicle is present.
      6.   No vehicle will be driven on a runway or taxiway unless so
authorized by the airport manager.
      7.   Automobiles may be parked in place of an airplane in T-hangars or
airplane shelters when the airplane is being used.
   B.   Fire Regulations: The following precautions and regulations shall apply
at all times on the airport property:
      1.   Smoking or lighting of open flames shall be prohibited in the
following locations:
         a.   Places with posted signs.
         b.   Within fifty feet (50') of fuel trucks or fueling facilities.
      2.   No person shall start an open fire on the airport.
      3.   No person shall stock, handle or store any fuel, flammable material
or equipment in such a manner as to constitute a fire hazard.
      4.   No person shall use a volatile inflammable material for cleaning
purposes inside any hangar, shelter or building.
      5.   Oily waste rags and other similar inflammable materials shall be
stored in closable metal containers.
      6.   Aircraft engines shall not be run in any hangar.
      7.   All commercial fueling of aircraft shall be from only approved
fueling facilities that are authorized by valid lease with the city. Owner
refueling shall only be done outside and clear of any hangars or structures and
in accordance with national fire protection agency bulletins regarding
"Aircraft Fuel Servicing" and "Static Electricity".
   C.   Signs And Advertising:
      1.   Post Or Remove: No person shall post or remove signs at the airport
without permission of the airport manager. Printed advertisements and
informational bulletins may be posted only on approved bulletin boards. (Ord.
2000-01, 2-22-2000)
      2.   Authorization To Erect: The airport manager is hereby authorized to
erect and install any signs or notices that he may deem necessary or advisable
in connection with the operation and enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Pedestrians: No pedestrian shall be upon any landing area of the
airport without first having obtained a signed permit from the airport manager,
except persons engaged as mechanics, or who, by necessity, are required to be
there. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-9: WORK ON AIRCRAFT:
   A.   Aircraft Repairs: Aircraft repair may be performed in space rented or
leased from the city by the aircraft owner/tenant or his agent in concurrence
with the specifications of the rent/lease agreement, federal aviation
regulations and airport regulation, section
7-6-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 764, 10-22-1991)
   B.   Removal Of Damaged Aircraft: Every aircraft owner, his pilot and/or
agents, severally, shall be responsible for the prompt removal after approval
of and by direction of the airport manager and/or representative of the federal
aviation administration, of wrecked or damaged aircraft.
   C.   Washing, Cleaning, Engine Drain Oil Disposal: Washing, rinsing and
other cleaning of aircraft is permitted only on the airport wash rack or in
airplane shelter spaces. Washing of engines with emulsifiable cleaners or
solvents is prohibited except in approved areas. Drain oil will be disposed of
in a manner acceptable to the airport manager. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-10: AIRPORT FEES:
   A.   Aircraft parking, hangar, shelter, tiedown and landing fees are hereby
established at such rates as are set from time to time by appropriate
resolution of the city council.
   B.   The airport manager may refuse clearance to any aircraft until all
charges for storage and other services rendered by the city have been paid.
(Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-11: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
The privileges of using the airport and its facilities shall be conditioned
upon the assumption of full responsibility and risk by the user thereof.
Neither the city, nor its agents, nor its employees, nor any combination
thereof, shall be liable for loss, damage or injury to person or persons or
property or properties, including any aircraft arising out of any accident,
incident or mishap of any nature whatsoever, or arising out of any cause
whatsoever, whether it occurs on the airport or in the use of any of the
airport facilities.
No person shall maintain based aircraft at the airport unless such person shall
file with the airport manager, and keep in current effect, a certificate of
public liability insurance with coverage amounts and applicable endorsements as
required by the city, and as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2000-01, 2-22-2000; amd. Ord. 2024-011, 12-17-2024)
7-6-12: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Negligent Operation: No aircraft shall be operated on the surface of a
landing area, ramp and apron area, or aircraft parking or storage area at any
speed or in a manner which endangers persons or property.
   B.   Intoxicated Persons:
      1.   No aircraft shall be operated on the surface of the landing area,
taxiway, or aircraft parking or storage area while the pilot or any persons
aboard controlling any part of the operation thereof is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or any narcotic or habit forming drug.
      2.   No person under the influence of intoxicating liquor shall approach
closer than fifty feet (50') to any aircraft parking or storage area, landing
or taxiing area.
   C.   Noise: No aircraft shall be operated on the ground or in the air in
such a manner as to cause unnecessary or objectionable noise. (Ord. 605, 2-6-
1979)
   D.   Experimental Demonstrations: No experimental ground or air
demonstrations shall be conducted on the airport except in accordance with the
federal airport regulations. (Ord. 2000-01, 2-22-2000)
   E.   Rubbish: Rubbish or trash shall not be thrown, deposited or allowed to
be scattered on the airport. Rubbish and trash shall be deposited in waste
receptacles provided for that purpose.
   F.   Unattended Aircraft: No aircraft shall be left unattended unless
properly secured or within a hangar.
   G.   Night Security: No person may enter the airport at night between the
hours of sunset and sunrise without properly identifying himself and stating
his business when so requested by the airport manager or any police officer.
   H.   Firearms: No person except peace officers, duly authorized, or members
of the armed forces of the United States on official duty shall carry or
discharge any firearms, including BB guns, explosives, bows and arrows or
flammable materials on the airport without the permission of the airport
manager. Such permission may be granted by the airport manager for an
indefinite period when circumstances warrant. All persons other than the
excepted classes shall surrender all such objects in their possession to the
airport manager. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
   I.   Animals: Animals shall not be permitted on the airport unless leashed
or restrained in such a manner as to be under control at all times. (Ord. 2000-
01, 2-22-2000)
   J.   Model/Radio Controlled Aircraft: No model or radio controlled aircraft
will be allowed on or above Reedley municipal airport property. (Ord. 2004-01,
5-11-2004)
7-6-13: LIABILITY:
The city, its agents or employees operating the airport, assumes no
responsibility for damage to properties stored thereon, or property thereon of
persons using the airport facilities, nor does it assume any liability by
reason of injury to persons while on the airport or while using the facilities
of same. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979)
7-6-14: EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
Special permission, when in the opinion of the airport manager unusual
conditions exist, to act contrary to the provisions of this chapter or in a
broader sense than written may be obtained from the airport manager, provided
each exception is petitioned for individually and separately and that
permission for such exception is obtained in writing from the airport manager.
Such written permission shall state definitely the exception for which the
permission is granted, the reason for the special permission and the time,
conditions, duration and number of instances for which such exception is
granted. (Ord. 2000-01, 2-22-2000)
7-6-15: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 605, 2-6-1979; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Intent
7-7-2: Short Title
7-7-3: Definitions
7-7-4: Grant Of Franchise
7-7-5: Regulation Of Franchise
7-7-6: Design And Construction Requirements
7-7-7: Reports
7-7-8: System Evaluation
7-7-9: Franchise Breaches
7-7-10: Miscellaneous Provisions
7-7-11: Provisions Applicable To State Franchise Holders; Purpose And Authority
7-7-12: Definitions; State Franchises
7-7-13: Franchise Fee
7-7-14: PEG Fee
7-7-15: Audit Authority
7-7-16: Customer Service Penalties Under State Franchise
7-7-17: City Response To State Franchise Applications
7-7-18: PEG Channel Capacity And Interconnectivity
7-7-1: INTENT:
   A.   The city, pursuant to applicable federal and state law, is authorized
to grant one or more nonexclusive franchises to construct, operate, maintain
and reconstruct cable television systems within the city limits.
   B.   The city council finds that the development of cable television and
communications systems has the potential of having great benefit and impact
upon the residents of the city. Because of the complex and rapidly changing
technology associated with cable television, the city council further finds
that the public convenience, safety and general welfare can best be served by
establishing regulatory powers which should be vested in the city or such
persons as the city may designate. It is the intent of this chapter and
subsequent amendments to provide for and specify the means to attain the best
possible cable television service to the public, and any franchises issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this as an integral finding
thereof. (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-2: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CABLE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 95-
011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. Words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals.
CABLE SERVICE: The total of the following:
   A.   The one way transmission to subscribers of video programming or other
programming service; and
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection of
such video programming or other programming service.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM OR SYSTEM; CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR CABLE SYSTEM:
A facility within the city consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment, that is
designed to provide cable service which includes video programming and which is
provided to multiple subscribers within a community, but such term does not
include:
   A.   A facility that serves only to transmit television signals of one or
more television broadcast stations;
   B.   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple unit
dwellings under common ownership, control, or management, unless such facility
uses any public rights of way;
   C.   A facility of a common carrier, except that such facility shall be
considered a cable system to the extent such facility is used in the
transmission of video programming directly to subscribers; or
   D.   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating its
electric utility system.
CHANNEL OR CABLE CHANNEL: A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum
which is used in a cable system which is capable of delivering a television
channel as defined by the federal communications commission.
FRANCHISE: An initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the city
council, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise, which
authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise grant ordinance or a contractual agreement,
containing the specific provisions of the franchise granted, including
references, specifications, requirements and other related matters.
FRANCHISE FEE: Any fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the city, as
grantor, on a grantee, solely because of its status as such, as compensation
for grantee's use of the public rights of way. The term franchise fee does not
include:
   A.   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any such
tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their
services, but not including a tax, fee or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
   B.   Capital costs which are required by the franchise to be incurred by
grantee for public, educational or governmental access facilities;
   C.   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding of the franchise,
including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit, insurance,
indemnification, penalties or liquidated damages; or
   D.   Any fee imposed under title 17, United States Code.
GRANTEE: Any person receiving a franchise pursuant to this chapter and under
the granting franchise agreement, and its lawful successors, transferees or
assignees.
GRANTOR OR CITY: The city of Reedley as represented by the city council or any
delegate acting within the scope of its jurisdiction.
GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES: The annual gross revenues received by a grantee from all
sources of operations of the cable television system within the city utilizing
the public streets, rights of way or public property for which a franchise is
required in order to deliver such cable service, excluding refundable deposits,
rebates or credits, except that any sales, excise or other taxes or charges
collected for direct pass-through to local, state or federal government, other
than the franchise fee, shall not be included.
INITIAL SERVICE AREA: The area of the city which will receive cable service
initially, as set forth in any franchise agreement.
INSTALLATION: The connection of the system to subscribers' terminals, and the
provision of cable service.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, limited liability company,
joint stock company, trust, corporation or governmental entity.
PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENT ACCESS FACILITIES OR PEG ACCESS FACILITIES:
The total of the following:
   A.   Channel capacity designated for noncommercial public, educational or
government use; and
   B.   Facilities and equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any real property, other than a street, which is owned by the
city and which is dedicated for uses compatible with cable system operations.
SECTION: Any section, subsection or provision of this chapter.
SERVICE AREA OR FRANCHISE AREA: The entire geographic area within the city as
it is now constituted or may in the future be constituted, unless otherwise
specified in the franchise agreement.
SERVICE TIER: A category of cable service or other services provided by a
grantee and for which a separate rate is charged by grantee.
STATE: The state of California.
STREET: Each of the following, which have been dedicated to the public or are
hereafter dedicated to the public and maintained under public authority or by
others and located within the city limits: streets, roadways, highways,
avenues, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements, rights of way and similar public
property and areas that grantor shall permit to be included within the
definition of street from time to time.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person who or which elects to subscribe to, for any purpose, a
service provided by grantee by means of or in connection with the cable
television system, and who is responsible for paying the charges therefor.
(Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-4: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Grant: A franchise granted by the city under the provisions of this
chapter shall encompass the following purposes:
      1.   To engage in the business of providing cable service, and such other
services as may be permitted by law, which grantee chooses to provide to
subscribers within the designated service area.
      2.   To erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild, reconstruct, replace,
maintain and retain cable lines, related electronic equipment, supporting
structures, appurtenances and other property in connection with the operation
of the cable television system in, on, over, under, upon, along and across
streets, public property or other public places within the designated service
area.
      3.   To maintain and operate said franchise properties for the
origination, reception, transmission, amplification and distribution of
television and radio signals and for the delivery of cable services, and such
other services as may be permitted by law.
      4.   To set forth the obligations of a grantee under the franchise.
   B.   Franchise Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
install or operate a cable television system in the city within any street or
public property without a properly granted franchise awarded pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Term Of Franchise: A franchise granted hereunder shall be for a term
established in the franchise agreement, commencing on grantor's adoption of an
ordinance or resolution authorizing the franchise.
   D.   Franchise Renewal: A franchise granted hereunder may be renewed upon
application by grantee pursuant to the provisions of applicable state and
federal law and of this chapter.
   E.   Franchise Territory: Any franchise shall be valid within all the
territorial limits of the city, and within any area added to the city during
the term of the franchise, unless otherwise specified in the franchise
agreement.
   F.   Federal Or State Jurisdiction: This chapter shall be construed in a
manner consistent with all applicable federal and state laws, and shall apply
to all franchises granted or renewed after the effective date of this chapter
to the extent permitted by applicable law.
   G.   Franchise Nontransferable:
      1.   Grantee shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or dispose
of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary
sale, contract, consolidation or otherwise, the franchise or any of the rights
or privileges therein granted, without the prior consent of the city council
and then only upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the city
council, which consent shall not be unreasonably denied or delayed; provided
that such consent shall not be required for transactions between any parent,
subsidiary or commonly owned entities. Any attempt to sell, transfer, lease,
assign or otherwise dispose of the franchise without the consent of the city
council shall be null and void. The granting of a security interest in any
grantee assets, or any mortgage or other hypothecation solely for purposes of
financing, shall not by itself be considered a transfer for the purposes of
this section.
      2.   The requirements of subsection G1 of this section shall apply to any
change of control of grantee. The word "control" as used herein is not limited
to major stockholder or partnership interests, but includes actual working
control in whatever manner exercised. The acquisition or accumulation by any
person or group of persons acting in privity of forty percent (40%) of the
voting shares or interests in grantee or any person which controls grantee
shall be presumed to constitute a change of control of grantee, but grantee
shall be entitled to rebut such presumption.
      3.   Grantee shall notify grantor in writing of any foreclosure or any
other judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the franchise property of
grantee. Such notification shall be considered by grantor as notice that a
change in control of ownership of the franchise has taken place and the
provisions under this section governing the consent of grantor to such change
in control of ownership shall apply.
      4.   For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such
change, sale, transfer, lease, assignment, sublease, disposal or acquisition of
control, grantor may inquire into the qualifications of the prospective
transferee or controlling party, and grantee shall assist grantor in such
inquiry. In seeking grantor's consent to any change of ownership or control,
grantee shall have the responsibility of ensuring that the transferee completes
any required application identical or substantially similar to FCC form 394
"Application for Franchise Authority Consent to Assignment of Control of Cable
Television Franchise", or any successor form. An application shall be submitted
to grantor not less than sixty (60) days prior to the date of transfer. The
transferee shall be required to establish that it possesses the qualifications
and financial and technical capability to operate and maintain the system and
comply with all franchise requirements for the remainder of the term of the
franchise. If the legal, financial, background, and technical qualifications of
the applicant are satisfactory to grantor, grantor shall consent to the
transfer of the franchise on such terms and conditions as it determines in its
discretion. The consent of grantor to such transfer shall not be unreasonably
denied or delayed.
      5.   Any financial institution having a pledge of grantee or its assets
for the advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of the
franchise shall have the right to notify grantor that it or its designee
satisfactory to grantor shall take control of and operate the cable television
system, in the event of a grantee default of its financial obligations.
Further, said financial institution shall also submit a plan for such operation
within thirty (30) days of assuming such control that will ensure, to grantor's
satisfaction, continued service and compliance with all franchise requirements,
at least the same level, during the term the financial institution exercises
control over the system. The financial institution shall not exercise control
over the system for a period exceeding one year unless extended by grantor in
its discretion, and during said period of time it shall have the right to
petition grantor to transfer the franchise to another grantee. If, by the end
of the one year period, the financial institution has not petitioned for
transfer to another grantee, or if grantor does not consent to such transfer,
the franchise shall cease and terminate at grantor's option.
      6.   At the time an application for a transfer is submitted to grantor,
grantee shall deposit with grantor an application fee of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) to cover grantor's reasonable out of pocket
processing and review expenses in connection with the transfer of the franchise
or of control of the franchise. The application fee shall not be charged
against any franchise fee due to grantor during the term of the franchise.
   H.   Geographical Coverage:
      1.   Grantee shall design, construct and maintain the cable television
system to have the capability to pass every dwelling unit within the public
streets and rights of way and public property in the city, subject to any
service area and line extension requirements of the franchise agreement.
      2.   After service has been established by activating trunk and/or
distribution cables for any service area, grantee shall provide service to any
requesting subscriber within that service area within thirty (30) days from the
date of request, provided that grantee is able to secure all rights of way
necessary to extend service to such subscriber within such thirty (30) day
period on reasonable terms and conditions.
   I.   Nonexclusive Franchise: Any franchise granted shall be nonexclusive.
Grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional
franchises for a cable television system or any component thereof, as it deems
appropriate, subject to applicable state and federal law, provided that if
grantor grants an additional franchise on terms more favorable to the second
grantee (whether by the grant of greater benefits or the imposition of lesser
obligations), then the initial grantee shall have the right to renegotiate its
franchise to incorporate the more favorable terms.
   J.   Multiple Franchises:
      1.   Grantor may grant any number of franchises subject to applicable
state or federal law. Grantor may limit the number of franchises granted, based
upon, but not necessarily limited to, the requirements of applicable law and
specific local considerations, such as:
         a.   The capacity of the public rights of way to accommodate multiple
cables in addition to the cables, conduits and pipes of the utility systems,
such as electrical power, telephone, gas and sewerage.
         b.   The benefits that may accrue to cable subscribers as a result of
cable system competition, such as lower rates and improved service.
         c.   The disadvantages that may result from cable system competition,
such as the requirement for multiple pedestals on residents' property, and the
disruption arising from numerous excavations of the rights of way.
      2.   Each grantee awarded a franchise to serve the entire city shall
offer cable service to all residences in the city, in accordance with
construction and service schedules mutually agreed upon between grantor and
grantee, line extension policies, and applicable law.
      3.   Developers of new residential housing with underground utilities
shall provide conduit to accommodate cables for at least two (2) cable systems.
      4.   Grantor may require that any new grantee be responsible for its own
underground trenching and the costs associated therewith, if, in grantor's
opinion, the rights of way in any particular area cannot feasibly and
reasonably accommodate additional cables. (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-5: REGULATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Franchise Application: Any person desiring an initial franchise for a
cable television system shall file an application with the city. A reasonable
application fee established by the city shall accompany the application to
cover all costs associated with processing and reviewing the application
including, without limitation, costs of administrative review, financial, legal
and technical evaluation of the applicant, consultants (including technical and
legal experts and all costs incurred by such experts), notice and publication
requirements with respect to the consideration of the application and document
preparation expenses. In the event such costs exceed the application fee, the
selected applicant(s) shall pay the difference to the city within thirty (30)
days following receipt of an itemized statement of such costs. In the event
such costs are less than the city application fee, city shall refund the unused
portion of said fee within thirty (30) days following the conclusion of the
process, subject to grantor's receipt and approval of an itemized statement of
such costs.
   B.   Application Contents: An application for an initial franchise for a
cable television system shall contain, where applicable:
      1.   A statement as to the proposed franchise and service area;
      2.   A resume of prior history of the applicant, including the expertise
of applicant in the cable television field;
      3.   A list of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or of those owning or controlling over five percent (5%) of the
stock, if a corporation;
      4.   A list of officers, directors and managing employees of the
applicant, together with a description of the background of each such person;
      5.   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the applicant
or any other business entity owning or controlling the applicant in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant;
      6.   The most recent financial statement of the applicant verified by a
certified public accountant audit or otherwise certified to be true, complete
and correct to the reasonable satisfaction of the city;
      7.   A proposed construction and service schedule;
      8.   Any reasonable additional information that the city deems
applicable.
   C.   Consideration Of Applications:
      1.   Upon receipt of any application for an initial franchise, the city
manager shall prepare a report and make recommendations respecting such
application to the city council.
      2.   A public hearing shall be set and noticed by publication prior to
any initial franchise grant, at a time and date approved by the city council.
Within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing, the city council shall
make a decision based upon the evidence received at the hearing as to whether
or not the franchise(s) should be granted, and, if granted, subject to what
conditions. The city council may grant one or more franchises, or may decline
to grant any franchise.
   D.   Franchise Renewal: Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with
applicable law. Grantor and grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal
negotiations at any time during the term of the franchise. Unless agreed
otherwise in the franchise renewal agreement, grantee shall reimburse grantor
for costs incidental to the franchise renewal award, not to exceed any maximum
specified in the renewal agreement. Any such reimbursement shall not be charged
against any franchise fee due to grantor during the term of the franchise.
   E.   Minimum Consumer Protection And Service Standards:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, grantee
shall maintain a local area office (not necessarily within the city limits) to
provide the necessary facilities, equipment and personnel to comply with the
following consumer protection and service standards under normal operating
conditions:
         a.   Customer Service: Knowledgeable, qualified company
representatives will be available to respond to customer telephone inquiries
Monday through Friday during normal business hours.
         b.   Line Capacity: Sufficient toll free telephone line capacity
during normal business hours to assure, on average, that a minimum of ninety
percent (90%) of all calls, measured on a quarterly basis, will be answered
within thirty (30) seconds, including wait time and time required to transfer
the call; emergency telephone line capacity on a twenty four (24) hour basis,
including weekends and holidays.
         c.   Busy Signal: Under normal operating conditions, the customer will
receive a busy signal less than three percent (3%) of the total time that the
cable office is open for business.
         d.   Automated Answering Equipment: If grantee utilizes automated
answering and distributing equipment, such equipment will limit the number of
routine rings to four (4) or fewer. If grantee does not utilize automated
equipment, grantee shall make every effort to answer incoming calls as promptly
as the automated systems.
         e.   Bill Payment Center: A local area bill payment location,
reasonably accessible to subscribers, open during normal business hours, nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through Friday,
excluding holidays and at least three (3) weekend hours each week, which is
adequately staffed to accept subscriber payments.
         f.   Consumer Information: At the time service is initiated, each new
customer will be provided written information covering:
            (1)   Products and cable service offered.
            (2)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other cable service.
            (3)   Installation and service maintenance policies.
            (4)   Instructions on how to use the cable service.
            (5)   A channel lineup card.
            (6)   The time allowed to pay outstanding bills.
            (7)   Grounds for termination of service.
            (8)   The steps grantee must take before terminating service.
            (9)   How the customer can resolve billing disputes.
            (10)   The steps necessary to have service reconnected after
involuntary termination.
            (11)   The fact that customers shall have the right to speak with a
supervisor, and if none is available, the supervisor shall return the
customer's call within one working day.
            (12)   The appropriate regulatory authority with whom to register a
complaint and how to contact such authority.
Grantee shall also provide such written information at least annually to all
subscribers and at any time upon request. Grantee shall notify all subscribers
and grantor at least thirty (30) days in advance of any significant changes in
any of the above information.
         g.   Requests For Cable Service And Repairs:
            (1)   Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs
promptly, and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time
possible. Scheduled interruptions exceeding four (4) hours between twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and exceeding one hour
between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight shall be
preceded by notice over the cable system to subscribers in the affected area.
To the extent that grantee can control them, scheduled interruptions shall
occur during a period of minimum system use, preferably between twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
            (2)   Grantee shall maintain a repair force of technicians capable
of responding to subscriber requests for service within the following time
frames under normal operating conditions no less than ninety five percent (95%)
of the time measured on a quarterly basis:
               (A)   Installation: An installation staff capable of installing
service to any residential subscriber within seven (7) business days after
receipt of a request, in all areas where coaxial feeder cable has been
activated within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the residence, provided that
grantee is able to secure all rights of way necessary to extend service to such
subscriber on reasonable terms and conditions within such seven (7) day period.
               (B)   Outages: Grantee will respond to service interruptions
promptly and in no event later than twenty four (24) consecutive hours after
becoming aware of such interruption. Other service problems will be responded
to within thirty six (36) consecutive hours during the normal work week.
               (C)   Inferior Reception Quality: Grantee will respond within
thirty six (36) consecutive hours during the normal work week of receiving a
request for service identifying a problem concerning picture or sound quality.
            (3)   Grantee shall schedule, within a specified four (4) hour time
period, appointments with subscribers for installation or service. Specifying
appointments as either "morning" or "afternoon" shall be deemed to comply with
this requirement. The obligation of grantee to specify installation or service
appointments within a designated four (4) hour time period shall be consistent
with grantee's scheduling calendar, such that when available morning and
afternoon appointments have been scheduled, additional subscribers requesting
installation or service on such days may be advised that grantee's service
personnel may arrive at any point during the business day, the subscriber may
request grantee to make an appointment for morning or afternoon service on the
next business day in which such appointments are available.
            (4)   Grantee shall be deemed to have responded to a request for
service under provisions of this subsection when a service representative
arrives at the service location and begins work on the problem. If an
appointment was scheduled per subsection E1g(3) of this section, or an
appointment was not scheduled, and a subscriber is not home when a service
representative arrives (within the appointment window if one was scheduled),
response shall be deemed to have taken place if the representative leaves
written notification of arrival.
            (5)   The term "normal operating conditions" as used in this
chapter means those service conditions which are within the control of grantee.
Those conditions which are not within grantee's control include, but are not
limited to, natural disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone
network outages, and severe or unusual weather conditions. Those conditions
which are within grantee's control include, but are not limited to, special
promotions, pay per view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal
demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
   F.   Complaint Procedures:
      1.   Grantee shall establish written procedures for receiving, acting
upon and resolving subscriber complaints without intervention by grantor. The
written procedures shall prescribe the manner in which a subscriber may submit
a complaint either orally or in writing specifying the subscriber's grounds for
dissatisfaction. Grantee shall file a copy of these procedures with grantor.
      2.   Grantor shall have the right to review grantee's response to
subscriber complaints in order to determine grantee's compliance with the
franchise requirements, subject to the subscriber's right to privacy.
   G.   Continuity Of Service:
      1.   It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue receiving
service insofar as their financial and other obligations to grantee are
honored. In the event that grantee elects to rebuild, modify, or sell the
system, or grantor gives notice of intent to terminate or not to renew the
franchise, grantee shall act so as to ensure that all subscribers receive
service so long as the franchise remains in force.
      2.   In the event of a change of control of grantee, or in the event a
new operator acquires the system, the original grantee shall cooperate with
grantor, new grantee or operator in maintaining continuity of service to all
subscribers. During such period, the original grantee shall be entitled to the
revenues for any period during which it operates the system.
      3.   Except as reasonably necessary for system maintenance, construction,
rebuild, or upgrade activity, grantee shall not intentionally terminate the
ongoing operation of the cable system so as to deny cable service to its
subscribers. Because the provision of cable service to subscribers is a unique
service, money damages would not be a sufficient remedy for violation of this
subsection G. Grantor shall be entitled to equitable relief, including
injunctive relief and specific performance, as a remedy for violation of this
subsection G. Such remedy shall not be deemed to be the exclusive remedy, but
shall be in addition to any other remedy provided for in this chapter or the
franchise agreement or at law or in equity.
   H.   Identification: All officers, agents or employees of grantee or its
contractors or subcontractors who, in the normal course of work come into
contact with members of the public or who require entry onto subscribers'
premises shall carry a photo identification card in a form reasonably approved
by grantor. Grantee shall account for all identification cards at all times.
Every vehicle of grantee or its major subcontractors shall be clearly
identified as working for grantee.
   I.   Additional Service Standards: Additional service standards and
standards governing consumer protection and response by grantee to subscriber
complaints not otherwise provided for in this chapter may be established in the
franchise agreement, and grantee shall comply with such standards in the
operations of the cable television system. A verified and continuing pattern of
noncompliance may be deemed a material breach of the franchise, provided that
grantee shall receive due process, including written notification and an
opportunity to cure, prior to any sanction being imposed. For purposes of this
subsection I, the term "continuing" shall mean failure to maintain any such
standard(s) three (3) or more times in any consecutive twelve (12) month period
where such failure causes a substantial adverse effect on the provision of
cable service through grantee's cable system. Also for purposes of this
subsection I, the term "verified" shall mean verified by the city council or
its designated representative.
   J.   Franchise Fee:
      1.   Following the issuance and acceptance of the franchise, grantee
shall pay to grantor a franchise fee in the amount set forth in the franchise
agreement.
      2.   Grantor, on an annual basis, shall be furnished a statement within
sixty (60) days of the close of the calendar year, either audited and certified
by an independent certified public accountant or certified by an officer of
grantee, reflecting the total amounts of gross annual revenues and all
payments, deductions and computations for the period covered by the payment.
Upon thirty (30) days' prior written notice, grantor shall have the right to
conduct an independent audit of grantee's records, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting procedures, and if such audit indicates a franchise fee
underpayment of two percent (2%) or more, grantee shall pay such underpayment
to grantor within fifteen (15) calendar days and shall assume all reasonable
costs of such an audit.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
grantor shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any
claim grantor may have for further or additional sums payable as a franchise
fee under this chapter or under the franchise agreement, for the performance of
any other obligation of grantee.
      4.   In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified in the franchise agreement, grantee shall
pay as additional compensation: (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
         a.   An interest charge, computed from such due date, at an annual
rate equal to the prime lending rate of the financial institution adopted by
resolution of the city council; and (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995; amd. 2007 Code)
         b.   If the payment is late by forty five (45) days or more, a sum of
money equal to five percent (5%) of the amount due in order to defray those
additional expenses and costs incurred by grantor by reason of delinquent
payment.
      5.   Franchise fee payments shall be made in accordance with the schedule
indicated in the franchise agreement.
   K.   Security Fund:
      1.   Grantor may require grantee to provide a security fund in an amount
and form established in the franchise agreement or a guarantee by a corporate
parent. The amount of any security fund shall be established based on the
extent of grantee's obligations under the terms of the franchise.
      2.   The security fund or guarantee shall be available to grantor to
satisfy all claims,liens and/or taxes due grantor from grantee which arise by
reason of construction, operation, or maintenance of the system, and to satisfy
any actual or liquidated damages arising out of a franchise breach, subject to
the procedures and amounts designated in the franchise agreement.
      3.   If the security fund is drawn upon by grantor in accordance with the
procedures established in this chapter and the franchise agreement, grantee
shall cause the security fund to be replenished to the original amount no later
than thirty (30) days after each withdrawal by grantor. Failure to replenish
the security fund shall be deemed a material breach of the franchise.
   L.   Hold Harmless: Grantee's indemnity obligations shall be as specified in
the franchise agreement.
   M.   Insurance: Grantee's insurance obligations shall be as specified in the
franchise agreement.
   N.   Records Required And Grantor's Right To Inspect:
      1.   Grantee shall at all times maintain:
         a.   A record of all service calls and interruption or degradation of
service experienced for the preceding two (2) years, provided that such
complaints result in or require a service call, subject to the subscriber's
right of privacy as specified by applicable law.
         b.   A full and complete set of plans, records and "as-built" maps
showing the locations of the cable television system installed or in use in the
city, exclusive of subscriber service drops and equipment provided in
subscriber's homes.
         c.   If requested by grantor, a summary of service calls, identifying
the number, general nature and disposition of such calls, on a quarterly basis.
A summary of such service calls shall be submitted to grantor within thirty
(30) days following any grantor request, in a form reasonably acceptable to
grantor. If grantor determines, based on review of such summary, that grantor
wishes to review grantee's records pertaining to individual service calls
reflected in the summary, grantee shall submit such records, subject to the
subscribers' privacy rights under applicable law, within thirty (30) days
following grantor's request for the records.
      2.   Grantor may impose reasonable requirements for additional
information, records and documents from time to time, provided they reasonably
relate to the scope of the city's rights under this chapter or grantee's
franchise agreement.
      3.   Upon reasonable notice, and during normal business hours, grantee
shall permit examination by any duly authorized representative of grantor of
all franchise property and facilities, together with any appurtenant property
and facilities of grantee situated within or without the city, and all records
relating to the franchise, provided they are necessary to enable grantor to
carry out its regulatory responsibilities under this chapter or the franchise
agreement. Grantee shall have the right to be present at any such examination.
(Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-6: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Grantee shall not construct any cable system facilities until grantee
has secured the necessary permits from grantor or other affected public
agencies.
   B.   In those areas of the city where transmission lines or distribution
facilities of the public utilities providing telephone and electric power
service are underground, grantee likewise shall construct, operate and maintain
its transmission and distribution facilities therein underground.
   C.   In those areas of the city where grantee's cables are located on the
aboveground transmission or distribution facilities of the public utility
providing telephone or electric power service, and in the event that the
facilities of both such public utilities subsequently are placed underground,
then grantee likewise shall reconstruct, operate and maintain its transmission
and distribution facilities underground, at grantee's cost. Certain of
grantee's equipment, such as pedestals, amplifiers and power supplies, which
normally are placed above ground, may continue to remain in aboveground
enclosures, unless otherwise provided in the franchise agreement.
   D.   Any changes in or extensions of any poles, anchors, wires, cables,
conduits, vaults, laterals or other fixtures and equipment (herein referred to
as "structures"), or the construction of any additional structures, in, upon,
along, across, under or over the streets, alleys, public ways and public
property shall be made only after grantee has secured all permits required
therefor and under the direction of grantor's city engineer or a designee. The
height above public thoroughfares of all aerial wires shall conform to the
requirements of the California public utilities commission or other regulatory
body having jurisdiction thereof.
      1.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by grantee shall be constructed and located so as not to interfere with
the proper use of streets, alleys, other public ways and places, and public
property and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys,
other public ways and places, or public property, and not to interfere with
existing public utility installations.
      2.   In the event that any property or improvement of grantor in a public
right of way is disturbed or damaged by grantee or any of its contractors,
agents or employees in connection with undertaking any work pursuant to the
right granted to grantee pursuant to this chapter, grantee shall promptly, at
grantee's sole cost and expense, restore as nearly as practicable to their
former condition, said property or improvement which was so disturbed or
damaged, and in the event that any such property or improvement shall at any
later time become uneven, unsettled or otherwise require restoration, repair or
replacement because of such disturbance or damage by grantee, then grantee
shall, promptly upon receipt of notice from grantor or otherwise and at
grantee's sole cost and expense, restore as nearly as practicable to its former
condition said property or improvement which was disturbed or damaged. Any such
restoration by grantee shall be made in accordance with such materials and
specifications as may, from time to time, be then provided for by city
ordinance.
      3.   Prior to commencing any work in the street, public rights of way, or
public property, grantee shall obtain any and all permits lawfully required by
such grantor codes and ordinances of general application for such work. In the
event that emergency work may be required by grantee, however, grantee shall
obtain any and all such permits within three (3) working days after the
beginning of such emergency work.
      4.   There shall be no unreasonable or unnecessary obstruction of the
public rights of way by grantee in connection with any of the work herein
provided for, and grantee shall maintain such barriers, signs and warning
signals during any such work performed on or about the public rights of way or
adjacent thereto as may be required by applicable law and/or as may be
necessary to reasonably avoid injury or damage to life and property.
      5.   If, at any time during the period of this franchise, grantor shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade or location of any street, alley or
other public rights of way, grantee shall, upon reasonable notice by grantor,
remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes and other fixtures at it own expense, and in each instance shall
comply with the requirements of grantor.
      6.   Grantee shall not place poles, conduits or other fixtures above or
below ground where the same will interfere with any gas, electric, telephone
fixtures, water hydrants or other utility, and all such poles, conduits or
other fixtures placed in any street shall be so placed as to comply with all
ordinances of grantor.
      7.   Grantee may be required by grantor to permit joint use of its poles,
conduits and appurtenances located in the streets, alleys or other public
rights of way or public property, by utilities insofar as such joint use may be
reasonably practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefor; provided
that if grantee and any public utility are unable to agree on the terms and
conditions of such joint use within sixty (60) days after grantor requires the
joint use, grantee and the utility shall promptly submit the terms and
conditions, including, without limitation, the rental therefor, to the
appropriate administrative agency having jurisdiction over the public utility,
or if there is no such agency, the American arbitration association, for a
final and binding decision.
      8.   Grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by grantor, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving
of buildings, the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the person
requesting the same. Grantee shall be given not less than forty eight (48)
hours' advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes, and may require
payment in advance.
      9.   Grantee shall have the authority, except when in conflict with
applicable grantor ordinances, to trim any trees upon and overhanging the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, public property or public places so as to prevent
the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of
grantee, except that at the option of grantor, such trimming may be done by
grantor, or under grantor's supervision and direction.
   E.   In new residential developments in which the electric power and
telephone utilities are underground, the following procedure shall apply with
respect to access to and utilization of underground easements:
      1.   The developer shall be responsible for contacting and surveying all
franchised cable operators to ascertain which operators desire to provide cable
service to that development. The developer may establish a reasonable deadline
to receive cable operator responses. The final development map shall indicate
the cable operators that have agreed to serve the development.
      2.   If two (2) or more cable operators wish to provide service, they
shall be accommodated in the joint utilities trench on a nondiscriminatory
shared cost basis. If fewer than two (2) cable operators indicate interest, the
developer shall provide conduit to accommodate two (2) sets of cable television
cables and dedicate to the city any initially unoccupied conduit. The developer
shall be entitled to recover the costs of such initially unoccupied conduit in
the event that grantor subsequently leases or sells occupancy or use rights to
any grantee.
      3.   The developer shall provide at least ten (10) working days' notice
of the date that utility trenches will be open to the cable operators that have
agreed to serve the development. When the trenches are open, cable operators
shall have two (2) working days to begin the installation of their cables, and
five (5) working days after beginning installation to complete installation.
      4.   The final development map shall not be approved until the developer
submits evidence that it has, or has agreed in a subdivision agreement or other
development agreement with the city that it will:
         a.   Notify each grantee that underground utility trenches are to be
open as of an estimated date, and that each grantee will be allowed access to
such trenches, including trenches from proposed streets to individual homes or
home sites, on specified nondiscriminatory terms and conditions; and
         b.   Receive a written notification from each grantee that grantee
intends to install its facilities during the open trench period on the
specified terms and conditions, or such other terms and conditions as are
mutually agreeable to the developer and grantee, or receive no reply from a
grantee within ten (10) days after notification to such grantee, in which case
grantee will be deemed to have waived its opportunity to install its facilities
during the open trench period.
      5.   Participating grantees shall share the joint utilities trench
subject to compliance with state regulatory agency and utility standards. If
such compliance is not possible, the developer shall provide a separate trench
for the cable television cables, with the entire cost shared among the
developer and participating grantees. With the concurrence of the developer,
the affected utilities and grantees, alternative installation procedures, such
as the use of deeper trenches, may be utilized, subject to applicable law.
      6.   Any grantee wishing to serve an area where the trenches have been
closed shall be responsible for its own trenching and associated costs.
      7.   In the event that more than one franchise is awarded, the city may
limit the number of drop cables per residence, or may require that the drop
cable(s) be utilized only by the grantee selected by the resident to provide
service.
      8.   The city may grant an encroachment permit to a franchise applicant
to install conduit and/or cable in anticipation of the granting of a franchise.
Such installations shall be at the applicant's risk, with no recourse against
the city in the event the pending franchise application is not granted. The
City may require an applicant to provide a separate trench for its conduit and/
or cable, at the applicant's cost. The construction of such separate trench, if
provided, shall be coordinated with, and subject to, the developer's overall
construction schedule.
   F.   Technical Standards:
      1.   Grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system in
a manner consistent with all applicable federal, state and local laws,
ordinances, construction standards, governmental requirements, FCC technical
standards and any detailed standards set forth in its franchise agreement. In
addition, grantee shall provide to grantor a written report of the results of
grantee's periodic proof of performance tests conducted pursuant to FCC and
franchise standards and guidelines. The written report shall be provided to
grantor at the same time that grantee files the report with the FCC.
      2.   Repeated and verified failure to maintain specified technical
standards shall constitute a material breach of the franchise. For purposes of
this subsection F2, the term "repeated" shall mean failure to maintain any
specified technical standard(s) three (3) or more times in any consecutive
twelve (12) month period where such failure causes a substantial adverse effect
on the provision of cable service through grantee's cable system. Also for
purposes of this subsection F2, the term "verified" shall mean verified by the
city council or its designated representative. (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-7: REPORTS:
   A.   Annual Reports: Within ninety (90) days after the end of the calendar
year, unless grantor agrees that submission only upon request will be
satisfactory, grantee shall submit a written annual report to grantor with
respect to the preceding calendar year, in a form reasonably approved by
grantor, including, but not limited to, the following information:
      1.   A summary of the previous year's (or in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year's) activities in development of the cable
system, including, but not limited to, services begun or discontinued during
the reporting year;
      2.   A list of grantee's partners, officers, members of its board of
directors, and/or other principals of grantee;
      3.   A list of stockholders of record or other equity investors holding
ten percent (10%) or more of the voting interest in grantee;
      4.   An indication of any residences in grantee's service area where
service is not available, and a schedule for providing service to such
residences;
      5.   Information as to the number of homes passed, subscribers,
additional television outlets, and the number of basic cable service and
premium service subscribers; and
      6.   Any other information regarding franchise regulation which grantor
shall reasonably request, and which is relevant to its regulatory
responsibilities.
   B.   Copies Of Federal And State Communications:
      1.   Upon specific request, grantee shall submit to grantor copies of all
pleadings, applications and reports submitted by grantee to, as well as copies
of all decisions, correspondence and actions by, any federal, state or local
court or regulatory agency, which are nonroutine in nature and which will
materially affect its cable television system operations within the franchise
area. Information otherwise confidential by law and specifically designated as
such by grantee, which is submitted to grantor, shall be retained in confidence
by grantor and its authorized agents and shall not be made available for public
inspection. In the event of legal challenge to grantor's withholding of any
such information, grantee shall be responsible for defending against such
challenge and shall indemnify grantor against any costs, expenses (including
attorney fees), losses, judgments or liabilities in connection therewith.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, grantee shall have no obligation to
provide copies of documents to grantor which contain trade secrets of grantee
or which are otherwise of a confidential or proprietary nature to grantee
unless it receives satisfactory assurances from grantor that such information
can and will be held in confidence by grantor. To the extent possible, grantee
will provide grantor with summaries of any required documents or copies thereof
with trade secrets and proprietary matters deleted therefrom. The burden of
proof shall be on grantee to establish the confidential nature of any
information submitted, to the reasonable satisfaction of grantor.
   C.   Public Reports: If grantee is publicly held, a copy of each grantee's
annual and other periodic reports and those of its parent, if any, shall be
submitted to grantor within forty five (45) days of issuance.
   D.   Complaint Report And Opinion Survey: Upon request of grantor, but not
more than once annually, grantee shall conduct a subscriber satisfaction survey
pertaining to quality of service, which survey shall, upon grantor's request,
be transmitted to subscribers in grantee's invoice for cable service. The
results of such survey shall be provided to grantor on a timely basis. The cost
of such survey shall be borne by grantee.
   E.   Compliance And Privacy Report: Upon grantor's request, but no more than
once annually, grantee shall submit to grantor a report indicating the degree
of compliance with the provisions contained in subsection B of this section and
all steps taken to assure that the privacy rights of individuals have been
protected.
   F.   Reports; General:
      1.   All reports required under this chapter or the franchise agreement,
except those required by law to be kept confidential, shall be available for
public inspection in grantor's offices during normal business hours.
      2.   All reports and records required under this chapter or the franchise
agreement shall be furnished at the sole expense of grantee, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter or the franchise agreement.
      3.   The wilful refusal, failure, or neglect of grantee to file any of
the reports required as and when due under this chapter or the franchise
agreement, may be deemed a material breach of the franchise agreement if such
reports are not provided to grantor within thirty (30) days after written
request therefor, and may subject grantee to all remedies, legal or equitable,
which are available to grantor under the franchise or otherwise.
      4.   Any materially false or misleading statement or representation made
knowingly and wilfully by grantee in any report required under this chapter or
under the franchise agreement may be deemed a material breach of the franchise
and may subject grantee to all remedies, legal or equitable, which are
available to grantor under the franchise or otherwise. (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-8: SYSTEM EVALUATION:
   A.   Annual Review Of System Performance: Each year throughout the term of
the franchise, if requested by grantor, grantor and grantee shall meet publicly
to review system performance and quality of service. The various reports
required pursuant to this chapter or the franchise agreement, results of
technical performance tests, the record of subscriber complaints and grantee's
response to complaints, and the information acquired in any subscriber surveys,
shall be utilized as the basis for review. In addition, any subscriber may
submit comments or complaints during the review meetings, either orally or in
writing, and these shall be considered. Within thirty (30) days after the
conclusion of a system performance review meeting, grantor may issue findings
with respect to the cable system's franchise compliance and quality of service.
If grantor determines that grantee is not in compliance with the requirements
of this chapter or grantee's franchise, grantor may direct grantee to correct
the areas of noncompliance within a reasonable period of time. Failure of
grantee, after due notice, to correct the areas of noncompliance within the
period specified therefor, or to commence compliance within such period and
diligently achieve compliance thereafter, shall be considered a material breach
of the franchise, and grantor may exercise any remedy within the scope of this
chapter and the franchise agreement.
   B.   Special Review Of System Performance: When grantor determines that
there has been a pattern of complaints made or where there exists other
evidence which, in the judgment of grantor, casts reasonable doubt on the
reliability or quality of cable service to the effect that grantee is not in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter or its franchise, grantor
shall have the right to compel grantee to test, analyze and report on the
performance of the system in order to protect the public against substandard
cable service. Grantor may not compel grantee to provide such tests or reports
unless and until grantor has provided grantee with at least thirty (30) days'
notice of its intention to exercise its rights under this section and has
provided grantee with an opportunity to be heard prior to its exercise of such
rights. Such test or tests shall be made and the report shall be delivered to
grantor no later than thirty (30) days after grantor notifies grantee that it
is exercising such right, and shall be made at grantee's sole cost. Such report
shall include the following information: the nature of the complaints which
precipitated the special tests, what system component was tested, the equipment
used and procedures employed in said testing, the results of such tests, and
the method by which such complaints were resolved. Any other information
pertinent to the special test also shall be reported.
   C.   Special Evaluation Sessions: Grantor may hold special evaluation
sessions at any time during the term of a franchise, provided such sessions are
held no more often than once every three (3) years. Grantee shall be notified
of the place, time and date thereof and the topics to be discussed. Such
sessions may be open to the public and if so, shall be advertised in a
newspaper of general circulation at least thirty (30) days before each session.
The sessions may include an evaluation of any items considered relevant to the
cable system, the subscribers and grantor. Either grantor or grantee may
propose items for discussion or evaluation. (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-9: FRANCHISE BREACHES:
Franchise breaches and the respective rights and remedies in connection
therewith shall be as specified in the franchise agreement. (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-
1995)
7-7-10: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Abandonment Or Removal Of Franchise Property:
      1.   In the event that the use of any franchise property of grantee
within the public rights of way is discontinued for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months, grantee shall be deemed to have abandoned that franchise
property. Any part of the cable system that is parallel or redundant to other
parts of the system and is intended for use only when needed as a backup for
the system or a part thereof shall not be deemed to have been abandoned because
of its lack of use.
      2.   Grantor, upon such terms as grantor may impose, may give grantee
permission to abandon, without removing, any system facility or equipment laid,
directly constructed, operated or maintained under the franchise.
      3.   Unless such permission is granted or, unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, grantee shall remove all abandoned aboveground facilities and
equipment upon receipt of written notice from grantor and shall restore any
affected street, public property or other public way or public place to its
former state at the time such facilities and equipment were removed, so as not
to impair its usefulness. In removing its plant, structures and equipment,
grantee shall refill, at its own expense, any excavation that shall be made by
it and shall leave all streets, public property and public ways and places in
as good condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. Grantor shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the streets, public property, public ways, public places, cables,
wires, attachments and poles prior to and after removal. The liability,
indemnity and insurance provisions of this chapter and the franchise agreement
and the security fund as provided herein shall continue in full force and
effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by grantee with
the terms and conditions of this section.
      4.   Upon abandonment of any franchise property in place, grantee, if
required by grantor, shall submit to grantor an instrument, satisfactory in
form to grantor, transferring to grantor the ownership of the franchise
property abandoned.
      5.   At the expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted, or
upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as provided herein, in any such case
without renewal, extension or transfer, grantor shall have the right to require
grantee to remove, at its own expense, all aboveground portions of the cable
television system from all streets, public property and other public ways and
public places within the city within a reasonable period of time, which shall
not be less than one hundred eighty (180) days or more than three hundred sixty
five (365) days.
      6.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this chapter,
grantee may abandon any underground franchise property in place so long as it
does not materially interfere with the use of the street, public property or
other public way or place in which such property is located or with the use
thereof by any public utility or other grantee.
   B.   Restoration By Grantor; Reimbursement Of Costs: In the event of a
failure by grantee to complete any work required herein or by any other law or
ordinance, and if such work is not completed within thirty (30) days after
receipt of written notice thereof from grantor (except in cases of emergency
constituting a threat to public health, safety or welfare) or, if more than
thirty (30) days are reasonably required therefor, if grantee does not commence
such work within such thirty (30) day period and diligently complete the work
thereafter, grantor may cause such work to be done and grantee shall reimburse
grantor the costs thereof within thirty (30) days after receipt of an itemized
list of such costs. Without relieving grantee of such obligation, grantor may
recover all or a portion of such costs through the security fund provided by
grantee.
   C.   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services: Upon expiration or
revocation of the franchise, grantor shall have the discretion to grant a short
term license in lieu of a franchise to permit grantee to continue to operate
the cable television system for a specific period of time, not to exceed twelve
(12) months. Grantee shall continue to operate the system under the terms and
conditions of this chapter and the license and to provide the regular
subscriber service and any and all of the services that may be provided at that
time. It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue to receive all
available service, provided that financial and other obligations to grantee are
honored. Grantee shall use reasonable efforts to provide continuous,
uninterrupted service to its subscribers, including operation of the system
during transition periods following franchise expiration or termination.
   D.   Receivership And Foreclosure:
      1.   A franchise shall, at the option of grantor, cease and terminate one
hundred twenty (120) days after appointment of a receiver or receivers, or
trustee or trustees, to take over and conduct the business of grantee, whether
in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or proceeding,
unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the
expiration of said one hundred twenty (120) days, or unless: a) such receivers
or trustees shall have, within one hundred twenty (120) days after their
election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions of
this chapter and the franchise, and the receivers or trustees within said one
hundred twenty (120) days shall have remedied all the defaults under the
franchise or provided a plan, satisfactory to grantor, for the remedy of such
defaults; and b) such receivers or trustees shall, within said one hundred
twenty (120) days, execute an agreement duly approved by the court having
jurisdiction whereby such receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by
each and every term, provision and limitation of the franchise granted.
      2.   In the case of a foreclosure or other judicial sale of the franchise
property, or any material part thereof, grantor may serve notice of termination
upon grantee and the successful bidder at such sale, in which event the
franchise and all rights and privileges of grantee hereunder shall cease and
terminate thirty (30) days after service of such notice, unless: a) grantor
shall have approved the transfer of the franchise, as and in the manner that
this chapter provides; and b) such successful bidder shall have covenanted and
agreed with grantor to assume and be bound by all terms and conditions of the
franchise.
   E.   Rights Reserved To Grantor:
      1.   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to grantor by this
chapter, grantor reserves to itself every right and power which grantor may
have under any other statute, code or ordinance or under the franchise.
      2.   Grantor may waive any provision of the franchise, except those
required by federal or state regulation, if grantor determines that: a) it is
in the public interest to do so, and b) the enforcement of such provision will
impose an undue hardship on grantee or the subscribers. To be effective, such
waiver shall be evidenced by a statement in writing signed by a duly authorized
representative of grantor. Waiver of any provision in one instance shall not be
deemed a waiver of such provision subsequent to such instance nor be deemed a
waiver of any other provision of the franchise unless the statement so recites.
   F.   Rights Of Individuals:
      1.   Grantee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users or citizens on the basis of
race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex or sexual orientation. Grantee
shall comply at all times with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws and regulations relating to nondiscrimination.
      2.   Grantee shall adhere to the applicable equal employment opportunity
requirements of federal, state and local regulations, as now written or as
amended from time to time.
      3.   Neither grantee, nor any person, agency, or entity shall, without
the subscriber's consent, tap, or arrange for the tapping, of any cable line,
signal input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose except
routine maintenance of the system, detection or investigation of unauthorized
service, polling with audience participation, or audience viewing surveys to
support advertising research regarding viewers where individual viewing
behavior cannot be identified.
      4.   In the conduct of providing its service or in pursuit of any
collateral commercial enterprise resulting therefrom, grantee shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a subscriber's or citizen's right
of privacy or other personal rights through the use of the system as such
rights exist pursuant to applicable law. Grantee shall not without lawful court
order or other applicable valid legal authority utilize the system's
interactive two way equipment or capability for unauthorized personal
surveillance of any subscriber or citizen.
      5.   No cable line, wire amplifier, converter or other piece of equipment
owned by grantee shall be installed by grantee in the subscriber's premises,
other than in appropriate easements, without first securing any required
consent. If a subscriber requests service, permission to install upon
subscriber's property shall be presumed.
      6.   Grantee and its agents and employees shall not sell, or otherwise
make available to any party without consent of the subscriber pursuant to state
and federal privacy laws:
         a.   Any list containing the names and addresses of subscribers who
request in writing to be removed from such list; and
         b.   Any list which identifies the viewing habits of individual
subscribers, without the prior written consent of such subscribers. This does
not prohibit grantee from providing composite ratings of subscriber viewing to
any party.
   G.   Separability: If any provision of this chapter is held by any court or
by any federal or state agency of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as
conflicting with any federal or state law, rule or regulation now or hereafter
in effect or for any other reason, or is held by such court or agency to be
modified in any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law,
rule or regulation, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct,
and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the
validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the event that
such law, rule or regulation is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or
otherwise changed, so that the provision thereof which had been held invalid or
modified is no longer in conflict with such law, rule or regulation, or
otherwise invalid, said provision shall thereupon return to full force and
effect and shall thereafter be binding on grantor and grantee, provided that
grantor shall give grantee thirty (30) days' written notice of such change
before requiring compliance with said provision or such longer period of time
as may be reasonably required for grantee to comply with such provision.
   H.   Notices: Grantee shall maintain throughout the term of the franchise, a
local address for service of notices by mail.
   I.   Captions: The captions to sections throughout this chapter are intended
solely to facilitate reading and reference. Such captions shall not affect the
meaning or interpretation of this chapter.
   J.   No Recourse Against Grantor: Grantee shall have no recourse whatsoever
against grantor or its city council, officials, boards, commissions, agents or
employees for any loss, costs, expenses or damage arising out of any provision
of the franchise or because of the enforcement of the franchise.
   K.   Nonenforcement By Grantor: Grantee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter by reason of
any failure of grantor to enforce prompt compliance. (Ord. 95-011, 7-25-1995)
7-7-11: PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO STATE FRANCHISE HOLDERS; PURPOSE AND
AUTHORITY:
Under state law effective January 1, 2007, the California public utilities
commission (PUC) has the sole authority to grant state franchises to provide
video service. Pursuant to this state law, the city has certain rights and
responsibilities with respect to state franchise holders, which include the
receipt of a franchise fee and a fee for public, educational and government
(PEG) purposes, and the authority to establish and enforce penalties for
violations of customer service rules. The city retains authority to regulate
the city's current cable franchise in accordance with this chapter and the
cable franchise currently in effect until such time as the cable franchisee no
longer holds a city franchise or is no longer operating under a current or
expired city franchise. (Ord. 2012-005, 11-27-2012)
7-7-12: DEFINITIONS; STATE FRANCHISES:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
GROSS REVENUE: Shall have the meaning ascribed that term in section 5860 of the
California Public Utilities Code.
HOLDER: Shall have the meaning ascribed that term in section 5860 of the
California Public Utilities Code.
STATE FRANCHISE: Shall have the meaning ascribed that term in section 5860 of
the California Public Utilities Code.
VIDEO SERVICE: Shall have the meaning ascribed that term in section 5860 of the
California Public Utilities Code. (Ord. 2012-005, 11-27-2012)
7-7-13: FRANCHISE FEE:
For any state franchise holder operating within the boundaries of the city,
there shall be a fee paid to the city equal to five percent (5%) of the gross
revenue received from all services provided within the boundaries of the city
by that state franchise holder or as established by state law. (Ord. 2012-005,
11-27-2012)
7-7-14: PEG FEE:
For any state franchise holder operating within the boundaries of the city,
there shall be a fee paid to the city equal to one percent (1%) of the gross
revenue received from all services provided within the boundaries of the city
by that state franchise holder or as established by state law, which fee shall
be used by the city for PEG purposes consistent with state and federal law.
(Ord. 2012-005, 11-27-2012)
7-7-15: AUDIT AUTHORITY:
Not more than once annually, the city manager or his or her designee may
examine and perform an audit of the business records of a state franchise
holder to ensure compliance with sections
7-7-13 and
7-7-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-005, 11-27-2012)
7-7-16: CUSTOMER SERVICE PENALTIES UNDER STATE FRANCHISE:
   A.   Applicable Law: Any state franchise holder shall comply with all
applicable state and federal customer service and protection standards
pertaining to the provision of video service.
   B.   Penalties For Violation: The city manager or his or her designee shall
monitor the compliance of state franchise holders with respect to state and
federal customer service and protection standards. The city manager shall
provide the state franchise holder written notice of any material breaches of
applicable customer service standards, and will allow the state franchise
holder thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach. Material breaches not remedied within thirty (30) days will be
subject to the following penalties to be imposed by the city:
      1.   For the first occurrence of a violation, a fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed for each day the violation remains in
effect, not to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for each
violation.
      2.   For each violation of the same nature within twelve (12) months, a
fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be imposed for each day the
violation remains in effect, not to exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000.00)
for each violation.
      3.   For a third or further violation of the same nature within twelve
(12) months, a fine of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) shall be
imposed for each day the violation remains in effect, not to exceed seven
thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) for each violation.
   C.   Appeal Procedure: A state franchise holder may appeal a penalty
assessed by the city manager to the city council within thirty (30) days of an
assessment. The city council shall hear all evidence and relevant testimony and
may uphold, modify, or vacate the penalty. The city council's decision
regarding the imposition of a penalty pursuant to this section shall be final.
In the absence of an appeal, the imposition of the penalty shall be deemed
final thirty (30) days after the assessment. (Ord. 2012-005, 11-27-2012)
7-7-17: CITY RESPONSE TO STATE FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applicants for state franchises within the boundaries of the city must
concurrently provide copies to the city of any application or amendments to
applications filed with the PUC. One complete copy must be provided to the city
manager.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt, the city manager will provide any
appropriate comments to the PUC regarding an application or amendment to an
application for a state franchise. (Ord. 2012-005, 11-27-2012)
7-7-18: PEG CHANNEL CAPACITY AND INTERCONNECTIVITY:
State franchisees shall provide the PEG channels required by California Public
Utilities Code section 5870 and satisfy the interconnectivity provisions of
that section. (Ord. 2012-005, 11-27-2012)
CHAPTER 8
INTERSTATE TRUCK ACCESS
SECTION:
7-8-1: General
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Prohibition And Penalties
7-8-4: Application; Terminal Facility And/Or Route
7-8-5: Filing Charges, Security And Bonds
7-8-6: Director Review
7-8-7: Affected Agency Review; Review Of Application By Affected Political
Jurisdictions
7-8-8: Effect Of Decision
7-8-9: Issuance Of Permit
7-8-10: Signs; Signing Of Terminal Facilities And Terminal Facility Access
Routes
7-8-11: Revocation Of Permit
7-8-12: Exemptions And Exceptions
7-8-13: Amendment; Initiation Of Amendment
7-8-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as the
INTERSTATE TRUCK ACCESS ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF REEDLEY, deemed necessary in
order to implement the provisions of the 1982 federal surface transportation
act, which requires states to allow interstate trucks on a system of highways
designated by the United States secretary of transportation, the specific
routes in Fresno County as identified in subsection 7-8-2B of this chapter, and
to allow reasonable access off of this designated system to terminal and
service facilities.
   B.   Authority To Regulate: Pursuant to the authority conferred by the 1982
federal surface transportation assistance act (STAA), and Vehicle Code section
35401.5, the regulations contained in this chapter are established herewith and
shall be used to determine the location of terminal facilities and access to or
from the designated highway system to such terminal facilities.
   C.   Governing Provisions; Terminal Facilities And/Or Terminal Access: Fees,
security and bonds, the application for the designation of terminal facilities
and terminal access, director and affected agency review procedures, sign
regulations, provisions for the issuance of a permit, the effect of the
director's decision, revocation procedures, exemptions and exceptions,
ordinance prohibition and penalties, amendment procedures and enactment shall
be governed by the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Governing Provisions; Service Facilities And/Or Service Facility
Access: No portion of the city of Reedley is within one-half (1/2) mile of the
national network; therefore, no regulations pertaining to service facilities
and/or service facility access are contained in this chapter. (Ord. 681, 2-19-
1985)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General: The definitions and meanings of words which are defined in the
1982 federal surface transportation act and Vehicle Code section 35401.5, are
used in this chapter as defined herein, unless from the context hereof, it
clearly appears that a different meaning is intended. The word "may" indicates
an action which is permissive. The word "shall" indicates an action which is
mandatory.
   B.   Specific Definitions:
    ACCESS ROUTE: The same as Route, defined herein.
   ALTERNATE ROUTE: An alternate terminal facility access route proposed by the
applicant as required by subsection
7-8-4A of this chapter.
   APPLICANT: A person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who files
an application with the director of public works of the city for designation of
a terminal facility as required by section
7-8-4 of this chapter.
   APPLICATION: An application for designation of a terminal facility and/or
terminal access route filed with the public works director of the city as
required in section
7-8-4 of this chapter.
   APPROVED: Approved by the city council or by the public works director of
the city.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS: The board of supervisors of Fresno County.
   CITY: The city of Reedley.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Reedley.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Reedley.
   CLERK OF THE BOARD: The clerk of the board of supervisors of the county of
Fresno.
   COUNTY: The county of Fresno.
   DECISION POINTS: Points located along an access route as designated by the
public works director of the city.
   DESIGNATED SYSTEM: The same as National Network, as defined herein.
   DIRECTOR: The public works director of the city.
   HIGHWAY: The same as Public Road as defined herein.
   INTERSTATE TRUCKS: Those combinations of vehicles that exceed the dimensions
allowed by state law, but are legal for operation on the national network and
access routes, to include a combination consisting of truck tractor and
semitrailer, or of a truck tractor, semitrailer and trailer as defined in
Vehicle Code section 35401.5.
   INTERSTATE TRUCK TERMINAL FACILITY: The same as Terminal Facility, as
defined herein.
   INTERSTATE TRUCK TERMINAL FACILITY ACCESS ROUTE PERMIT: A permit issued by
the director subject to approval of an application, as required in section
7-8-4 of this chapter.
   INTERSTATE TRUCK TERMINAL FACILITY PERMIT: A permit issued by the director
subject to approval of an application, as required in section
7-8-4 of this chapter.
   LARGER COMBINATION COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES: The same as Interstate Trucks,
as defined herein.
   NATIONAL NETWORK: A national system of interstate and defense highways and
portions of the federal aid primary system highways designated by the United
States secretary of transportation for use by larger combination commercial
motor vehicles. Included in the national network located in Fresno County are
the following designated routes:
      1.   U.S. Interstate through Fresno County;
      2.   California state highway route 99 through Fresno County; and
      3.   California state highway route 198, east of U.S. Interstate 5 to
Route 99.
   PERMIT: The same as Interstate Truck Terminal Facility Permit and Interstate
Truck Terminal Facility Access Route Permit, as defined herein.
   PUBLIC ROAD: Any state highway, county or city street, avenue, highway or
road which is within the maintained road system of the public agency having
jurisdiction thereof, or to be included within the maintained road system by
agreement between said agencies and the applicant.
   REASONABLE ACCESS: Access along designated routes from the national network
to locations providing fuel, food, lodging and repair (services); and access
from the national network to a terminal facility.
   REVOCATION: An act by the director to revoke a designated terminal facility
and/or terminal facility access route permit.
   ROUTE: The same as Public Road as defined herein.
   SECONDARY ROUTE: A secondary terminal facility access route designated by
the director in accordance with section
7-8-4 of this chapter.
   SERVICE FACILITY: Facilities which provide fuel, food, lodging and repair,
as designated by the California state department of transportation (Caltrans).
   SERVICE FACILITY ROUTE: Any highway which provides reasonable access to
service facilities when that access is consistent with the safe operation of
interstate trucks and when the facility is within one-half (1/2) road mile of
identified points of ingress and egress to or from the national network.
   TERMINAL FACILITY: A facility at which freight is consolidated to be shipped
and where full load consignments may be off loaded, or at which interstate
trucks are regularly maintained, stored or manufactured.
   TERMINAL FACILITY ACCESS ROUTE: A route which the California state
department of transportation and/or affected local jurisdictions have jointly
identified and signed as being connections between terminal facilities and the
national network, as defined herein.
   TERMINAL FACILITY ACCESS ROUTE PERMIT: The same as Interstate Truck Terminal
Facility Access Route Permit, as defined herein.
   TERMINAL FACILITY PERMIT: The same as Interstate Truck Terminal Facility
Permit, as defined herein.
   VEHICLE CODE: The Vehicle Code of the state of California.
   C.   Common Usage Of Words And Phrases: Wherever a word or phrase used in
this chapter is not defined in the Vehicle Code, as amended, and unless it
appears otherwise from the context in which such word or phrase is used, it
shall be construed to have the meaning of such word or phrase used in the
applicable chapters of the Reedley city code. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-3: PROHIBITION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Prohibition of Interstate Trucks: No person shall use, or cause to be
used, any interstate truck or larger combination commercial motor vehicle on
any route within the city which has not been designated as a terminal facility
access route in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Remedies Not Barred: Nothing herein contained shall bar any legal,
equitable or summary remedy to which the city or other political subdivision,
or any person may otherwise be entitled. The city or other political
subdivision or person may file suit in a court of competent jurisdiction, to
restrain or enjoin any attempted or proposed use of any route for access to a
terminal facility in violation of the Vehicle Code or this chapter.
   C.   Permit Refusal: The director shall refuse to grant an interstate truck
terminal facility permit or access to any route proposed to be used for access
to a terminal facility, until such time as all of the requirements of this
chapter have been complied with.
   D.   Violation; Penalties: Use of any route or facility made contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, is a misdemeanor, and any person, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-4: APPLICATION; TERMINAL FACILITY AND/OR ROUTE:
   A.   Filing:
      1.   Any applicant desiring to apply for a permit for a terminal facility
within the city and/or use a route for terminal facility access which passes
through the city to an existing or proposed terminal facility, shall first
submit to the director, three (3) copies of an application.
      2.   The application for a terminal facility and/or terminal facility
access route shall be filed, in writing, on a form prescribed by the director.
      3.   The application shall be accompanied by plans which shall indicate
the proposed or existing facility, as well as existing, proposed and/or
secondary terminal facility access routes. Said plans shall indicate an
alternate terminal facility access route(s), if necessary, for further
consideration of the application by the director.
   B.   Form of Plans: The form and contents of plans for terminal facilities
and terminal facility access routes shall be as specified by the director.
(Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-5: FILING CHARGES, SECURITY AND BONDS:
   A.   Filing Charges: Filing charges to offset the cost of processing shall
be as established by resolution of the city council and shall be paid at the
time of filing an application for a terminal facility and/or terminal facility
access route.
   B.   Checking Charges:
      1.   The applicant shall pay a charge to pay costs incurred by the city
to review an application and accompanying plans for a terminal facility access
route within the city based upon the number of decision points located along
said access route, as designated by the director. The amount of said checking
charge shall be as established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   No adjustment in, or refund of such charges shall be made once
checking charges have been paid to the city by the applicant, except when an
application is withdrawn, the unexpended portion of the required fee may be
refunded upon written request made by the applicant to the director.
   C.   Charges Required, Installation Of Signs:
      1.   The applicant shall pay a charge to recover costs incurred by the
city to purchase and place terminal facility and terminal facility access route
signs in accordance with section
7-8-10 of this chapter. Such charges shall be based upon the number of proposed
terminal facilities and the number of decision points located along a terminal
facility access route as designated by the director. The amount of said charges
shall be as established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   No adjustment in, or refund of such charges shall be made once sign
charges have been paid to the city by the applicant, except when an application
is withdrawn, the unexpended portion of the required charge may be refunded
upon written request made by the applicant to the director.
      3.   Charges, as established by resolution of the city council shall also
be paid by the person who has been issued a permit for a terminal facility and/
or terminal facility access route(s) to recover costs incurred by the city
necessary to replace and/or repair signs as required by provisions of section
7-8-10 of this chapter.
   D.   Inspection Charges:
      1.   The applicant shall pay a charge to recover costs incurred by the
city for inspecting all proposed on and off site improvements required by the
director. Such charge shall be as established by resolution of the city
council.
      2.   No adjustment in, or refund of such charges shall be made once
inspection charges have been paid to the city by the applicant, except when an
application is withdrawn and improvements have not commenced, the required
charge may be refunded upon written request made by the applicant to the
director.
      3.   Charges, as established by resolution of the city council shall also
be paid by the person who has been issued a permit for a terminal facility and/
or terminal facility access route(s) to recover costs incurred by the city to
inspect repair of damaged public and/or private property.
   E.   Security Required; Off Site Street Improvements: Before a permit shall
be issued for any terminal facility, the applicant shall provide a bond to
guarantee performance of required street improvements, said bond to be approved
by the director and the city attorney and to include:
      1.   Improvement security in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of
the total estimated cost of all required off site street improvements as
required by the director and as indicated in the application and accompanying
plans, for the purpose of securing the performance of said work.
      2.   Improvement security in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the
estimated cost of all required work to secure payment to the contractor, his
subcontractors, and to persons renting equipment or furnishing labor or
materials for such improvements.
      3.   In the event improvements are not completed within a reasonable
period of time as established by the director, the city shall be authorized to
take all necessary actions, including the use of security, to cause the
completion of all required improvements. In the event the security is
insufficient to pay the full cost of the improvement, the principal shall be
liable for any balance.
      4.   As a part of the obligation guaranteed by the security and in
addition to the face amount of security, there shall be included costs and
reasonable expenses and charges, including reasonable attorney fees, incurred
by the city in successfully enforcing the obligation secured.
      5.   Monies deposited with the city or in escrow may be partially
released to the depositor by the director during the progress of the
improvement so long as the same ratio of security is maintained on deposit to
secure all uncompleted work.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the director to inspect, or cause to be
inspected, all improvements installed to ensure conformance with this chapter
and city standards. No security given for faithful performance of such work
shall be exonerated until and unless the director certifies compliance thereto.
   F.   Form of Security: Whenever this chapter authorizes or requires the
furnishing of security in connection with the performance of any act or
agreement, such security shall be one of the following, at the option of and
subject to the approval of the director and the city attorney:
      1.   Bond(s) by one or more duly authorized corporate sureties.
      2.   A deposit, either with the city or a reasonable escrow agent or
trust company, at the option of the director, of money or negotiable bonds of
the kind approved for securing deposits executed by a security company
authorized to transact business in the state.
      3.   An instrument of credit from one or more financial institutions
subject to regulation by the state or federal government and pledging that the
funds necessary to carry out the act or agreement are on deposit and guaranteed
for payment for carrying out said act or agreement.
   G.   Security Release:
      1.   Security given for faithful performance of street improvements for
the designation of a terminal facility or terminal facility access route(s),
shall be released upon the final completion of such street improvements.
      2.   Such release shall not apply to costs and reasonable expenses and
charges, including reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-6: DIRECTOR REVIEW:
   A.   Director Review Process; General:
      1.   Upon receipt of a completed application for designation of a
terminal facility and/or terminal facility access route within the city and the
required application charge, the director shall consult with, and forward a
copy of the terminal facility access route plan(s) to Caltrans, district 06
office. The director shall seek approval, in writing, of the proposed access
off the national network before further evaluation of the application is
undertaken by the director. Information forwarded to Caltrans shall include a
plan describing the proposed terminal facility access route and alternate
route, the proposed terminal facility, and the location of the anticipated
connection to the national network.
      2.   Upon the written approval of access off the national network from
Caltrans, district 06 office, the director shall determine the application's
conformance with the requirements of this chapter, and if found adequate, shall
determine the capability of the proposed access routes and/or secondary routes
within the city as established through the review of plans submitted in
conformance with subsections
7-8-4A and B of this chapter.
      3.   Further, it shall be the duty of the director to evaluate the
application and issue a permit when it appears that the operation or movement
of interstate trucks along a proposed or secondary access route can be
accomplished with safety and without serious inconvenience to the public and
without undue damage to road foundations, surfaces or structures.
   B.   Examination And Field Check: Pursuant to the provisions of the Vehicle
Code and this chapter, the director shall make such detailed examination of
applications for terminal facilities and/or terminal access routes, and such
field check, if any, as may be necessary to make the required designations.
   C.   Director Evaluation; Report:
      1.   The director shall determine the application's conformance with the
intent of this chapter based upon the following review criteria for
establishment of a terminal facility:
         a.   Full load consignments can be loaded or off loaded;
         b.   Freight can be consolidated for consignment; and
         c.   The proposed terminal facility will be a maintenance, storage or
manufacturing facility for interstate trucks;
         d.   The use for the property on which the terminal facility is
proposed to be located conforms to the provisions of title 10 of this code for
a truck terminal facility.
      2.   The director shall also review the application and maps against any
such other information deemed necessary to determine the conditions upon which
the terminal facility permit and/or terminal facility access permit may be
issued, to include, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   The capability of proposed access route and secondary routes, to
include adequate turning radii and lane width of ramps, intersections,
channelization and highways; and
         b.   The general traffic conditions such as sight distance, speed and
traffic volumes for safe operations.
      3.   If the director finds that the proposed terminal facility is in
compliance with subsection C1 and C2 of this section, the director shall:
         a.   List recommended conditions for approval of the application;
         b.   Upon the applicant's compliance with such conditions, issue to
the applicant a terminal facility and/or terminal facility access permit in
accordance with section
7-8-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-7: AFFECTED AGENCY REVIEW; REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY AFFECTED POLITICAL
JURISDICTIONS:
If the proposed terminal facility, access route and/or secondary route, passes
through more than one jurisdiction, i.e., county(ies) or municipality(ies), it
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to file application with each
affected jurisdiction. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-8: EFFECT OF DECISION:
   A.   Director's Decision: When the director finds that the application is
substantially in the form required by this chapter, and in full conformity with
the conditions imposed by the director in connection with approval of the
application and issuance of a permit, as prescribed by sections
7-8-6 through
7-8-10 of this chapter, and that, where required, an agreement and security
(bond) respecting necessary improvements has been approved and filed in
accordance with section
7-8-5 of this chapter, the decision of the director to approve, approve with
conditions or disapprove the application and to issue or not to issue or revoke
a permit, shall be made, and the applicant or permit holder so notified.
   B.   Appeal Of Director's Decision:
      1.   If the director approves or denies an application for designation of
a terminal facility and/or terminal facility access route(s), or revokes a
previously approved terminal facility and/or terminal facility access route
permit in accordance with revocation procedures established in section
7-8-11 of this chapter, the applicant or appellant, within thirty (30) days
following the date of a decision to approve or disapprove the application or
revoke terminal facility designation or terminal facility access, may file an
appeal of said decision to the city council.
      2.   An appeal shall be made on a form prescribed by the director and
shall be filed with the city clerk.
      3.   The appeal shall state specifically wherein there was disagreement
with the decision of the director or wherein the decision is not supported by
the evidence in the record.
      4.   Within a reasonable period of time of the filing of an appeal, the
director shall transmit to the city clerk the following information:
         a.   The terminal facility and/or terminal facility access route(s)
application;
         b.   Sketches of the proposed or revoked terminal facility and/or
terminal facility access route(s) and all other data filed therewith; and
         c.   The report of the director, the findings thereof and the decision
on the application.
      5.   The city clerk shall give notice to the applicant, to the appellant
(if the appellant is not the applicant) and may give notice to any other
interested party, of the date, time and place of the hearing at which the city
council will consider the appeal.
      6.   If Caltrans, district 06 office, and not the director, denies,
approves or revokes terminal access to or from the national network, no appeal
may be made to the city council. Said appeal must be made to Caltrans.
      7.   The decision of the city council shall be final. (Ord. 681, 2-19-
1985)
7-8-9: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Permits; General: Terminal facility and/or terminal facility access
route permits shall be required for all locations within incorporated portions
of the city, which are so authorized to receive interstate trucks in
conformance with this chapter.
   B.   Director Approval:
      1.   If the application for the designation of a terminal facility and/or
terminal facility access route(s), and all accompanying plans, are in correct
form prescribed by this chapter, and the matters shown thereon are sufficient,
their correctness shall be certified in writing to the applicant, and on such
accompanying plans.
      2.   The director shall post, or cause to be posted, notice of a proposed
terminal facility access route at every decision point and shall also publish a
notice at least once in a newspaper of general circulation at least thirty (30)
days prior to the issuance of a permit for a terminal facility access route
necessary to provide an opportunity for an appellant to appeal the decision of
the director to approve an application for a terminal facility and/or terminal
access route in accordance with subsection
7-8-8B of this chapter.
      3.   The director shall not issue a permit until such time as terminal
facility and/or terminal facility access signs have been posted in accordance
with subsection
7-8-10A of this chapter.
      4.   If, after the required period of time specified in this subsection,
an appeal, as provided for in subsection
7-8-8B of this chapter, has not been filed with the city clerk, the director
shall cause a permit to be issued.
      5.   The director shall thereupon notify Caltrans, district 06 office of
such approval.
   C.   Permit Denial:
      1.   Whenever necessary to ensure against undue damage to road
foundations, surfaces or structures or to assure against damage to public or
private property thereon, above or adjacent to any city highway, or whenever it
appears that such operation or movement cannot be accomplished with safety or
without serious inconvenience to the public or without violating the provisions
of this chapter and the Vehicle Code, the director shall withhold the issuance
of a permit, and within a period of time specified, shall in writing notify the
applicant and Caltrans, district 06 office, of the decision and the reasons
therefor.
      2.   The applicant may file a new application with the director, altered
to conform to all the requirements of this chapter, along with a new fee as
prescribed by section
7-8-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-10: SIGNS; SIGNING OF TERMINAL FACILITIES AND TERMINAL FACILITY ACCESS
ROUTES:
   A.   If an application for a terminal facility and/or terminal facility
access route(s) is approved, the director shall place, or cause to be placed,
appropriate signs at the terminal facility and at every decision point on the
approved access route and/or secondary route within the city, prior to issuance
of a terminal facility and/or terminal facility access permit in accordance
with subsection 7-8-9B3 of this chapter.
   B.   When official signs are in place pursuant to the provisions of this
section, and a permit has been issued by the director, it shall be unlawful for
any person to operate an interstate truck on said signed access route in
violation of the restrictions set forth in this chapter.
   C.   Revocation of a terminal facility and/or terminal facility access route
permit shall result in the immediate withdrawal of signs placed or proposed to
be placed at a terminal facility or along the terminal access route in
accordance with subsection
7-8-11A2 of this chapter.
   D.   The applicant, in accordance with subsection
7-8-5C of this chapter shall be required to pay for the purchase, installation,
repair and replacement of terminal facility and terminal facility access route
signs. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Revocation Of Permit; Director Action:
      1.   The director is authorized to revoke any permit for a terminal
facility and/or terminal facility access route(s) when said facility and/or
access route is:
         a.   Considered a hazard by the director, defined as the inability of
interstate trucks to negotiate the route and/or said trucks causing unsafe
driving conditions for other vehicular traffic and/or pedestrians.
         b.   No longer serving as a terminal facility and/or terminal facility
access route.
      2.   Immediately following the revocation of a permit for a terminal
facility and/or terminal facility access route, the director shall remove, or
cause to be removed, terminal facility and/or terminal facility access signs.
      3.   Affected political jurisdictions shall be informed of the director's
decision to revoke a permit in writing, and shall request that permits issued
by said jurisdictions be revoked and that signs be removed along the designated
terminal access route.
      4.   Revocation of a terminal facility and or terminal facility access
route permit by the director, shall initiate amendment of this chapter in
accordance with section
7-8-13 of this chapter.
   B.   Appeal Procedure Revocation of Permit: The applicant may appeal the
decision of the director to revoke a terminal facility and/or terminal facility
access route permit in accordance with procedures contained in subsection
7-8-8B of this chapter. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-12: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to licensed carriers of
household goods when directly enroute to or from a point of loading or
unloading of household goods, if travel on highways other than on the national
network is necessary and incidental to the shipment of the household goods.
(Ord. 681, 2-19-1985)
7-8-13: AMENDMENT; INITIATION OF AMENDMENT:
Amendment to this chapter may be initiated in one of the following manners:
   A.   Issuance of a terminal facility and/or terminal facility access permit
by the director in accordance with this chapter. The terminal facility and/or
terminal facility access route for which a permit was issued, shall constitute
an amendment to this chapter. The director shall identify, or cause to be
identified, said facilities and/or access routes and said designations shall be
placed on file with the city clerk.
   B.   By ordinance adopted by the city council. (Ord. 681, 2-19-1985; amd.
2007 Code)
CHAPTER 9
DOWNTOWN PARKING AND BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA
SECTION:
7-9-1: General
7-9-2: Area Boundary
7-9-3: Assessments
7-9-4: Uses Of Revenue
7-9-5: Benefit To Business
7-9-6: Reedley Downtown Parking And Business Improvement Area Committee
7-9-1: GENERAL:
The city council, on February 4, 1986, adopted resolution 3744, a resolution of
intention of the city council to establish a parking and business improvement
area under the parking and business improvement area law of 1979 which set the
date of February 18, 1986, in the city council chambers, 845 "G" Street,
Reedley, California, for the time and place at which the city council would
consider the establishment of said parking and business improvement area, and
having said hearing and received and considered all evidence both written and
oral presented, hereby establishes the Reedley downtown parking and business
improvement area in accordance with the provisions of Streets and Highway Code
sections 36500 through 36550 of part 6, hereinafter referred to as "area",
which provides for the establishment of a parking and business improvement area
by action of the city council. (Ord. 688, 2-18-1986)
7-9-2: AREA BOUNDARY:
Reference is hereby made to that certain map entitled, "Boundary Map - Reedley
Downtown Parking And Business Improvement Area", which is made a part hereof as
exhibit A, which is the boundary of the area established hereunder (the area).
The businesses within the boundary shown on said map shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter and any amendments thereto, and to the provisions of
Streets and Highway Code sections 36500 through 36551 of part 6 and any
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 97-07, 5-27-1997)
7-9-3: ASSESSMENTS:
The assessments to be levied on each business within the boundaries of said
area shall be imposed either according to recommendations of committee or
according to such changes to those recommendations as may be approved by the
city council at a public hearing following the filing of the report by the
committee. The initial monthly or other periodic charge on the annual
assessments shall be billed and collected during the month in which the
improvements to be maintained hereunder are accepted for maintenance by the
city. (Ord. 97-07, 5-27-1997)
7-9-4: USES OF REVENUE:
The revenue to be generated from charges to businesses within said area shall
be used for the care, maintenance and replacement of street trees, shrubs and
ground cover planting in planters in the sidewalk area and the maintenance of
the automatic irrigation system and other facilities incidental thereto for
these planters and ornamental structures and facilities and street furniture to
include benches installed within the Reedley downtown streetscape project
district. (Ord. 688, 2-18-1986)
7-9-5: BENEFIT TO BUSINESS:
The city council hereby finds that the businesses within said area will benefit
from uses set forth in section
7-9-4 of this chapter for the revenue from said charges. (Ord. 688, 2-18-1986)
7-9-6: REEDLEY DOWNTOWN PARKING AND BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA COMMITTEE:
   A.   Establishment: The Reedley downtown parking and business improvement
area committee is hereby established. (Ord. 688, 2-18-1986)
   B.   Committee Members:
      1.   Appointment: Said committee shall be made up of three (3) members
appointed by the city council from the current list of owners of businesses
within said area. Only those persons continuing to own businesses within the
said area may retain their appointments on said committee for the time as
specified herein. Each member shall be appointed or reappointed for a three (3)
year term. The committee shall appoint a chair and such other officers from
their number as they see fit to carry on the duties as set forth herein. The
director of community development shall serve as resource person and staff
liaison to the committee in carrying out its duties.
      2.   Terms: The present expiration dates of the terms of members of the
Reedley downtown parking and business improvement area committee who are
serving on said committee as of the effective date of this section shall,
notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this section, continue to be
the expiration dates of said terms. (Ord. 791, 1-11-1994)
   C.   Duties Of The Committee: The committee shall oversee the maintenance of
the improvements as set forth in section
7-9-4 of this chapter and advise the city council as to the desires of the
businesses within the area regarding level of maintenance and any and all
things related to said maintenance and the possible modification or replacement
of said improvements so maintained or the installation of new improvements
within the area. The committee also shall have those powers and perform those
duties set forth in Streets and Highway Code sections 36530 and 36533.
   D.   Powers Of Committee: The committee shall have those powers and duties
set forth in subsection C of this section and in Streets and Highway Code
section 36540. (Ord. 97-07, 5-27-1997)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: City Water System
8-1-2: Duties Of Public Works Director
8-1-3: Mandatory Connection Required
8-1-4: Application For Municipal Utility Service
8-1-5: Water Rates And Charges
8-1-6: Water Meters
8-1-7: Connection Requirements
8-1-8: Water Use Restrictions
8-1-9: Irrigation Water
8-1-10: Inspection And Enforcement
8-1-11: Unlawful Interference
8-1-12: Water Conservation Restrictions
8-1-13: Backflow Prevention And Cross Connection Control
8-1-13-1: Intent, Purpose And Control
8-1-13-2: Definitions
8-1-13-3: Responsibility
8-1-13-4: Requirements
8-1-13-5: Type Of Protective Device Required
8-1-13-6: Specific Types Required
8-1-13-7: Fire System Backflow; Protection Requirements
8-1-13-8: Water Shutoff Conditions
8-1-13-9: Water Shutoff Procedure For Immediate Public Health Hazard
8-1-13-10: Prevention Device Certification Of Approval
8-1-13-11: Application To Install Prevention Devices
8-1-13-12: Assembly Inspection
8-1-13-13: Qualification And Certification Of Person To Inspect And Maintain
Backflow Prevention Devices
8-1-13-14: Amendments
8-1-13-15: Penalties For Noncompliance
8-1-14: Water Conservation In Landscaping
8-1-1: CITY WATER SYSTEM:
The Municipal waterworks shall be known as the Reedley City Water Department,
and shall be under the direct control and supervision of the Public Works
Director. Water supply and service will be provided by the city to customers
within the limits of the City of Reedley, or as otherwise approved, in
accordance with this chapter and other applicable regulations governing the
service as adopted and amended from time to time by the City Council or
applicable regulating agencies. The City will deliver water to its customers at
the city's point of responsibility to the customer's system (“customer's
system” as defined in
8-1-13-4 A4).
   A.   Non-Liability Of City: Except for meeting applicable state water
quality standards, the city is not responsible and will not be liable to any
customer for any loss, damage, or inconvenience to any customer by reason of
water quality; water shortage or insufficiency; any suspension, interruption,
discontinuation, or shut off of water service; or any increase or decrease of
water pressure.
   B.   Service Interruption: The city reserves the right at any and all times
to shut off water delivery for any purpose, including but not limited to
maintenance, emergency repairs, public health or safety, water conservation, or
improvements to the system. As reasonably practical, the city will attempt to
provide advance notice by personal contact, mail, or door hanger, of any
interruption of service to all water users affected by the interruption. (Ord.
30, 6-23-1914; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-10-2019)
8-1-2: DUTIES OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
The Public Works Director shall act as collector of water rates, and any other
monies due the City for materials and supplies furnished by said City in
connection with said Water Department. It shall be the duty of the Public Works
Director to keep or cause to be kept a proper set of books showing the names of
all consumers and connections made, and the amounts received from collections
in each case and what the same are for; the amount of arrearages, if any, and
such other matters as may properly pertain to said department. (Ord. 30, 6-23-
1914; amd. 2007 Code)
8-1-3: MANDATORY CONNECTION REQUIRED:
Any buildings within the city limits of the City of Reedley, including but not
limited to all residential, industrial, educational, governmental, and
commercial buildings, located on property adjacent to a water main, or in a
block through which a water main extends, must apply for connection and connect
to the city water system as provided herein, except as otherwise provided in
subsection C below.
   A.   Connection To System: Every building permit issued either for the
construction of a new building or for remodeling of an existing building, if
the remodeling cost is twenty five percent (25%) or more of the current
assessed valuation, shall require the building to be connected to the City
water system. If the parcel being built on does not have water service, the
building permit shall require the extension of a water main across the entire
frontage of the property being improved and the installation of water service
to serve the parcel. The person applying for the building permit shall install
the water main and water service, or shall cause it to be installed, to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.
   B.   Required Connection: All buildings currently served by a well or other
private systems, situated within the City, which have water mains available
shall connect to the City water system within ninety (90) days after date of
official notice to do so if one or more of the following applies:
      1.   The current well or private system servicing the building(s) has
systemically failed.
      2.   The current well or private system servicing the building(s) does
not test in conformance with required health and safety standards, as
determined by the Director of Public Works and/or the appropriate County or
State health official.
      Connections to the City water system are all at the expense of the owner
of said property. At any time, a property owner may elect to establish a City
water system connection in accordance with section
8-1-7 of this chapter. At the time of connection, no well or private system
connection may continue to serve the living areas or building(s) on-site.
However, an existing well or private system may still be utilized for the
purposes of agricultural irrigation alone, in accordance with section
8-1-9 of this chapter, barring that such system tests in conformance with
required health and safety standards, as determined by the Director of Public
Works and/or the appropriate County or State health official.
      For purposes of this subsection, "available" shall mean having a water
main in an easement or roadway abutting the parcel.
   C.   Relief From Water Service Connection Requirements: When the City
Council determines that special circumstances make connection to the city water
system an unreasonable hardship on a property owner, the City Council may, by
resolution, suspend the requirement to connect to the city water system for a
specific time or for the time the special circumstances exist. Additionally, a
connection may be delayed or exempted by the Public Works Director on the
grounds that the building is unoccupied and not used by any person(s) and no
human needs are generated therein. (Ord. 2018-009, 1-8-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-
009, 12-10-2019)
8-1-4: APPLICATION FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE:
   A.   Application; Deposit For Municipal Utility Service: Before utility
service shall be supplied to any premises, the owner or occupant of the
property shall make a written application to the city for utility service on a
form provided by and containing such information as may be required by the
city. Applicants for utility service shall pay the applicable application fee
established by city resolution. Any applicant for utility service who does not
own the real property for which utility service is to be supplied shall pay a
deposit equal to three (3) times the estimated average total monthly bill prior
to establishing an account. Any property owner applicant for utility service
may be required to pay a deposit equal to three (3) times the estimated average
total monthly bill if the city's finance director or authorized designee deems
their creditworthiness to be a financial risk for the city. The deposit shall
be retained by the city until the applicant has terminated the utility account.
At that time, if the fees and charges for utility services have been paid in
full, the deposit shall be refunded to the applicant. Otherwise, all
outstanding fees and charges will be deducted from the deposit and the
remaining deposit balance, if any, shall be refunded to the applicant.
   B.   Applicant Liable: All charges for municipal utility service shall be
considered as against the person or persons making the application for
municipal utility service referred to in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Location Requirements: No application will be approved where the pipes
to be connected do not meet applicable city standards. (Ord. 2014-004, 8-12-
2014)
8-1-5: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates: Rates and compensation due the city for water service shall be
that which the city council may by resolution determine, and all sums due said
city by any consumer for water service, material or supplies, shall be due and
payable at the office of the public works director.
   B.   Each Dwelling Separate: Each separate house or dwelling owned by one
person shall be charged as one customer when tenanted.
   C.   Time Of Charges: Charges shall commence from the time when water is
first turned on. But for separate periods, if less than a month the charge
shall be prorated.
   D.   Discontinue Service: The charge for water shall continue and be paid
until written notice of a desire to discontinue, signed by the owner of the
property or his agent, shall be personally served on the public works director.
Such notice shall be acknowledged by the signature of the public works director
and returned to the owner at his request. (Ord. 30, 6-23-1914)
   E.   Service Fee: A service fee amount established by resolution of the city
council will be assessed on all accounts that are processed for delinquent
shutoff as provided in subsection
8-1-10A of this chapter. (Ord. 95-009, 6-13-1995)
   F.   Rates To Vacant Premises: Water rates will be charged for all vacant
premises until the public works director has been notified, in writing, of the
discontinuance of the use of the water and requested the service connection to
be shut off. (Ord. 30, 6-23-1914)
8-1-6: WATER METERS:
All water supplied to customers shall be measured through water meters. Water
meters installed must be of the same brand and model used by the city unless a
compatible brand or model is approved by the Public Works Director or City
Engineer, and the meter and specific size of the meter must be approved by the
City Engineer before purchase or installation. Water meters shall be located at
or near the customer property line but not located on the customer's property
unless approved by the City Engineer or Public Works Director. The proposed
location of the water meter must be approved by the Public Works Director or
City Engineer prior to installation. The customer or developer responsible for
installing the meter is responsible for all costs associated with the approval,
purchase, and installation of the water meter.
   A.   Installation: Meters shall be installed behind the curb or within a
public utility easement. Exact location of meter installation shall be approved
by the Public Works Director or City Engineer prior to installation. Meters
shall be owned by the city and be replaced at its expense after the payment of
the charges established therefor. Any person causing damage to a meter such
that it must be replaced or repaired shall be responsible for reimbursing the
city the cost to replace or repair the meter. No rent or other charge will be
paid by the city for a meter or other facilities, including housings and
connections, located on the premises of the applicant. All meters will be
sealed by the city at the time of installation, and no seal shall be altered or
broken except by an authorized city employee or designee.
   B.   Relocation: Meters moved for the convenience of the customer will be
relocated at the customer's expense and only under the authorization of the
Public Works Director or City Engineer. Meters moved to protect the city's
property will be moved at the city's expense.
   C.   Non-Registering Meters: If a meter is found to not be registering, the
charge for services to the premises shall be at the minimum monthly rate or
shall be based on the minimum monthly rate plus estimated consumption if
previous consumption information is available. Such estimates shall be made
from a previous consumption for a comparable period or by such other method as
is determined by the City Water Department, and its decision shall be final.
   D.   Water Meters Within Gated Or Private Community: The city shall be
responsible for the reading and maintenance of any water meter located within a
gated or private community. All other water infrastructure located within the
private or gated community including, without limitation, all water piping,
valves, and hydrants beginning at the point of connection to the city's water
distribution main shall be the sole responsibility of the customer(s). (Ord.
639, 5-5-1981; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-10-2019)
8-1-7: CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   One Service Connection: Only one house or dwelling shall be allowed to
be connected with any one service connection.
   B.   Individual Responsibility: Each consumer must keep his own service
pipe, valves and faucets in order, free from leakage and capable of
withstanding the unusual pressure to which the waterworks will be subjected at
times of fire.
   C.   Direct Connection Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any consumer to
lay or connect any water pipe or hose from any lot, premises or dwelling to or
with the water service connection pipes laid in any adjoining premises or
dwelling, owned by another consumer, for the purpose of obtaining city water
thereby, or to permit or to assist any other consumer to make such connection.
   D.   Size Of Connection: No water will be furnished any consumer through a
larger service connection than one inch (1") unless special privilege is
granted such person by the public works director, and then only on special
restrictions. (Ord. 30, 6-23-1914)
   E.   Separate Service For New Parcels: All new parcels to be created shall
be served with water by the extension of water mains completely across the
frontage of each parcel and the installation of a separate service to each
parcel. All work to be performed by the subdivider shall be done to the
satisfaction of the city engineer. (Ord. 753, 6-25-1991)
8-1-8: WATER USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Application Restrictive: It shall be unlawful for any person to use
water for any other purposes than those stated in the application. Should any
person desire additional service or fixtures, or to apply the water to a new
purpose, a new application shall be made. Any person failing to make such new
application shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Limit Use: If for any reason it shall be deemed necessary, the maximum
amount of water to be used daily by any consumer shall be limited, notice
stating the maximum amount of water that such consumer may use shall be served
on such consumer or his agent, and from and after service of such notice, it
shall be unlawful for any person to use a greater amount of water than stated
in said notice.
   C.   Use During Fire: In case of fire, all mains are to cease the ordinary
use of water until signal is given that the fire is under control, and at such
times the water system is to be under the control of the fire chief or person
acting under his authority. (Ord. 30, 6-23-1914)
8-1-9: IRRIGATION WATER:
   A.   Irrigation Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to sprinkle or
irrigate any lawn without a sprinkler or nozzle.
   B.   Exception: Water for irrigation will not be furnished (except upon
permission of the public works director) for that purpose alone, and only in
connection with domestic use. No irrigation will be permitted in an open ditch.
   C.   Permission To Sprinkle: It shall be unlawful for any person to use the
city water to sprinkle any street or alley, unless permission is obtained from
the public works director. (Ord. 30, 6-23-1914)
8-1-10: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority To Inspect: The Public Works Director, City Engineer,
Director of Finance, or any other authorized representative of the city shall
have the right, during normal working hours, to enter upon any premises
receiving city water service for the purpose of reading, inspecting, testing,
checking, repairing, maintaining, or replacing the city’s water meters and
water system components, and insuring compliance with the city’s laws and
regulations pertaining to water and water services.
The Public Works Director may, without notice, shut off water to any consumer
or premises, if the water shall be disposed or used in violation of any law, or
if the water bills shall be and remain unpaid for a period of more than six (6)
days.
   B.   Access To Hydrants: It shall be unlawful for any person to place on or
about, or near any hydrant, gate valve or stopcock connected with the municipal
waterworks system, any rubbish, building material or other substance so as to
prevent the free and easy access to such hydrant, gate valve or stopcock at any
time. (Ord. 30, 6-23-1914; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-10-2019)
8-1-11: UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, unless under the direction and
authorization of the Public Works Director or authorized city representative to
do, commit, or assist in committing any of the following acts:
   A.   To open or close any control valve or fire hydrant connected with the
city's water system or lift or remove the cover of any gate valve or shutoffs
thereof.
   B.   To interfere with, destroy, deface, injure or force open any gate or
door, or destroy, injure or deface any part of any well, engine house,
reservoir, standpipe, tank, building, appurtenances, fences, trees, shrubs,
fixtures or property connected or pertaining to the city water system.
   C.   To go upon or ascend the stairway or steps of any elevated water
storage tank owned or leased by the city.
   D.   To make or permit to be made any connection with a main or service
pipes of the city water system, or to turn on or use the water of said system
without first obtaining a permit for such use.
   E.   To remove, interfere, or tamper with any water meter that is part of
the city's water system.
   F.   To turn on the water supply to any building or to any supply pipe where
the supply has been turned off. Only authorized city staff may turn water back
on after the service has been shut off because of the nonpayment of any charge,
termination of the water service account, or because of the violation of any
city rule, regulation, ordinance, resolution or policy. (Ord. 30, 6-23-1914;
amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-10-2019)
8-1-12: WATER CONSERVATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Approved Water Conservation Restriction Level: Notwithstanding any
other provision(s) of this code, at least one of the following four (4) levels
of water conservation restrictions shall apply at all times. The selected level
shall be determined by resolution of the city council based upon a
recommendation by the public works director. The current level and any change
in level shall be communicated to the public by reasonable means to ensure
compliance, including, but not limited to, posting on the city's website,
publishing in a local newspaper, and notice included in water bills. All
persons using water supplied by the city of Reedley shall comply with the
following mandatory conservation measures as imposed by the city council.
   B.   Level 1 Water Conservation Restrictions: During the time in which level
1 restrictions are imposed the following mandatory conservation measures shall
apply:
      1.   Waste Of Water Prohibition: The following uses of water are defined
as "waste of water" and are hereby prohibited except as otherwise authorized:
         a.   The use of water which allows excess water to run off to a
gutter, ditch, or drain. Every water user is deemed to have his water
distribution lines and facilities under his control at all times and to know
the manner and extent of his water use and excess runoff.
         b.   The excessive use, loss, or escape of water through breaks, leaks
or malfunctions in the water user's plumbing or distribution facilities for any
period of time after such escape of water should reasonably have been
discovered and corrected. It shall be presumed that a period of forty eight
(48) hours after discovery is a reasonable time within which to correct such a
leak or break.
         c.   The washing of vehicles, building exteriors, sidewalks,
driveways, parking areas, tennis courts, patios, or other paved areas without
the use of a positive shutoff nozzle on the hose, which results in excessive
runoff.
      2.   Landscape Irrigation:
         a.   Installation Of Lawn Sprinkling Systems: Lawn sprinkling system/
devices shall be properly designed, installed, maintained and operated to
prevent overuse of water.
         b.   Modifying Duration Of Watering: The "water customer" shall modify
watering duration and frequency schedules so that the sprinkler's application
does not exceed the irrigated area's absorption rate and generate surface
runoff.
         c.   Hours Of Irrigation: All outdoor irrigation of lawns, gardens,
landscaped areas, plants, trees, shrubs, or other greenscape areas shall occur
only between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M., and between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on designated days during the summer watering schedule (see subsection
B2d of this section). During the winter watering schedule (see subsection B2e
of this section), water customers may water anytime during the designated day.
         d.   Summer Watering Schedule (April 2 Through October 31): All
dwellings or establishments with even numbered street addresses (addresses
ending with 0, 2, 4, 6, 8) shall water only on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.
Dwellings or establishments with odd numbered addresses (addresses ending with
1, 3, 5, 7, 9) shall water only on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. There shall
be no watering on Mondays.
         e.   Winter Watering Schedule (November 1 Through April 1): All
dwellings or establishments shall water only on Wednesday or Sunday. Specific
irrigation times shall not be enforced. During rain events, water customers
should turn automatic sprinkler timers off or place them on pause.
      3.   Exceptions:
         a.   A written application for exception to this section shall be
submitted to the public works director. Exemptions may be granted if:
            (1)   Compliance with this section would cause unnecessary and
undue hardship to the applicant, including, but not limited to, adverse
economic impacts such as loss of production or jobs; or
            (2)   Compliance with this section would cause a condition
adversely affecting the health, sanitation, fire protection, or safety of the
applicant or the public.
         b.   Commercial nurseries, public parks, cemeteries, and schools are
exempt from subsections B2c through B2e of this section but will be requested
to curtail all nonessential water use.
   C.   Level 2 Water Conservation Restrictions: During any time in which level
2 restrictions are imposed the following mandatory conservation measures shall
apply in addition to all nonconflicting level 1 restrictions:
      1.   Paved Surfaces: Washing paved surfaces is prohibited, including, but
not limited to, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, tennis courts, or patios,
except when it is necessary to alleviate safety or sanitation hazards.
      2.   Two Day Summer Watering Schedule: Two (2) day summer watering
schedule (April 2 through October 31) for all residential and commercial
landscape irrigation. All landscape irrigation watering in the city shall be
limited to two (2) days per week as follows: dwellings, establishments, and
properties with even numbered street addresses (addresses ending in 0, 2, 4, 6,
8) shall water only on Wednesdays and Sundays. Dwellings, establishments, and
properties with odd numbered addresses (addresses ending with 1, 3, 5, 7, 9)
shall water only on Tuesdays and Saturdays. There shall be no outdoor landscape
irrigation watering on Mondays, Thursdays, and Fridays.
      3.   Outdoor Landscape Irrigation: All outdoor landscape irrigation
watering shall be limited to using sprinklers for no more than ten (10) minutes
per watering station. This provision does not apply to landscape irrigation
systems using drip/micro-irrigation systems.
      4.   Hours Of Irrigation: All outdoor irrigation of lawns, gardens,
landscaped areas, plants, trees, shrubs, or other greenscape areas shall occur
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on designated days during both the summer and winter watering schedules.
      5.   Outdoor Watering Of Landscaped Areas: Any outdoor watering of
landscaped areas, including trees and shrubs located on residential and
commercial properties, which are not irrigated by an automated landscape
irrigation system shall be watered only by using a bucket, handheld hose with a
positive shutoff nozzle, or low volume nonspray irrigation.
      6.   Measurable Rain Event: No outdoor watering allowed within forty
eight (48) hours after a measurable rain event.
      7.   Rain Capture Systems: Rain capture systems are encouraged and any
associated building permits for such systems will be expedited and permit fees
waived. An administrative processing fee will still be applicable.
   D.   Level 3 Water Conservation Restrictions: During any time in which level
3 restrictions are imposed the following mandatory conservation measures shall
apply in addition to all nonconflicting level 1 and level 2 restrictions:
      1.   The filling or refilling of ornamental lakes or ponds shall be
prohibited, except to the extent needed to sustain aquatic life, provided that
such animals are of significant value and have been actively managed within the
water feature prior to declaration of a drought response level under this
section.
      2.   The washing of vehicles is prohibited, except at commercial car
washes that recirculate water, or by high pressure/low volume wash systems.
      3.   All leaks detected in landscape irrigation systems or water systems
shall be repaired within forty eight (48) hours of notification by the city of
Reedley unless other arrangements are made with the public works director.
      4.   No new potable water service shall be provided, no new temporary
meters or permanent meters shall be provided, and no statements of immediate
ability to serve or provide potable water service (such as, will serve letters,
certificates or letters of availability) shall be issued, except under the
following circumstances:
         a.   A valid, unexpired building permit has been issued for the
project; or
         b.   The project is necessary to protect the public's health, safety,
and welfare; or
         c.   The applicant provides a substantial evidence of an enforceable
commitment that water demands for the project will be offset prior to the
provision of a new meter(s) to the satisfaction of the city of Reedley.
This provision shall not be construed to preclude the resetting or turn on of
meters to provide continuation of water service or to restore service that has
been interrupted for a period of one year or less.
   E.   Level 4 Water Conservation Restrictions: During any time in which level
4 restrictions are imposed the following mandatory conservation measures shall
apply in addition to all nonconflicting level 1, level 2, and level 3
restrictions:
      1.   All landscape irrigation shall be prohibited, except crops and
landscape products of commercial growers and nurseries. This restriction shall
not apply to the following categories of use(s) unless the city of Reedley has
determined that recycled water is available and may be lawfully applied to the
use(s):
         a.   Maintenance of trees and shrubs that are watered on the same
schedule set forth in subsection C4 of this section by using a bucket, handheld
hose with a positive shutoff nozzle, or low volume nonspray irrigation;
         b.   Maintenance of existing landscaping necessary for fire protection
as specified by the fire marshal of the local fire protection agency having
jurisdiction over the property to be irrigated;
         c.   Maintenance of existing landscaping for erosion control;
         d.   Maintenance of plant materials identified to be rare or essential
to the well being of rare animals;
         e.   Maintenance of landscaping within active public parks and playing
fields, daycare centers, school grounds, cemeteries, and golf course greens,
provided that such irrigation does not exceed two (2) days per week according
to the schedule established under subsection C2 of this section;
         f.   Watering of livestock; and
         g.   Public works projects and activity irrigated environmental
mitigation projects.
      2.   All leaks detected in landscape irrigation systems or water systems
shall be repaired within twenty four (24) hours of notification by the city of
Reedley unless other arrangements are made with the public works director.
   F.   Request For Exemption From Water Conservation Restrictions: Unless
expressly excepted as noted in this section, exemption from applicable
requirements, restrictions, and/or prohibitions under this section shall be
subject to the approval of the public works director after receipt of a written
request for exemption, and may be granted only if the public works director
determines either of the following:
      1.   Compliance with this section would cause unnecessary and undue
hardship to the applicant, including, but not limited to, adverse economic
impacts such as loss of production or jobs; or
      2.   Compliance with this section would cause a condition adversely
affecting the health, sanitation, fire protection, or safety of the applicant
or the public.
   G.   Enforcement; Penalties: It is one of the objectives of the city council
of the city of Reedley that the citizens of Reedley are encouraged to
voluntarily comply with this section. Therefore, in furtherance of said
objective, the enforcement of this section shall be as follows:
      1.   First violation: A verbal warning of such violation shall be issued
by public works department personnel or a designated official of the city of
Reedley. Documentation shall be noted on the work order or complaint form
retained by the city.
      2.   Second violation: A written notice of such violation shall be issued
by public works department personnel or a designated official of the city of
Reedley police department personnel.
      3.   Third violation: A written notice of such violation accompanied by
an administrative citation and fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) in
accordance with subsection
1-12-8A of this code.
      4.   Fourth and subsequent violations: A written notice of such violation
accompanied by an administrative citation and fine of five hundred dollars
($500.00) in accordance with subsection
1-12-8A of this code.
      5.   Fifth and subsequent violations: A written notice of such violation
accompanied by an administrative citation and fine of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in accordance with subsection
1-12-8A of this code. Additionally, the notice may require termination of all
water service to the customer. Water service termination shall be at the
discretion of the public works director. Restoration of water service after
termination shall be at the discretion of the public works director.
Restoration of water service after termination shall be contingent on an
agreement by the customer to adhere to the provisions of this section. Any and
all costs incurred by the city to enforce termination of water service shall be
billed to and paid by the water customer.
      6.   Determination of number of violations: Violations of any provisions
of this section within any twelve (12) month period shall be deemed a next
violation in the progressive violation schedule described above. (Ord. 2015-
003, 6-9-2015)
8-1-13: BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
8-1-13-1: INTENT, PURPOSE AND CONTROL:
   A.   It is the intent of this section to recognize that there are varying
degrees of hazard to the city's potable water system, and it is the intent to
apply the principle that the degree of protection should be commensurate with
the degree of hazard.
   B.   The purpose of this section is:
      1.   To protect the public potable water supply of the city of Reedley
from the possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its
customers' internal distribution system(s) such contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow or back siphon into the public water system; and
      2.   To promote the elimination and control of existing cross
connections, actual or potential, between its customers' in plant potable water
system(s) and nonpotable water system(s), plumbing fixtures, and industrial
piping systems; and
      3.   To provide for the continuing program of cross connection control
and certification training, which will effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
AWWA: The American Waterworks Association.
AIR GAP (AG): The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of said vessel. An
approved air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe, and
in no case less than one inch (1") with sidewalls no less than one and one-half
inches (11/2"). When an air gap is used at the service connection to prevent
the contamination or pollution of a public potable water system, an emergency
bypass shall be installed around the air gap system and an approved, reduced
pressure principle device shall be installed in the bypass system.
APPROVED: Accepted by the director, or his designated representative, as
meeting an applicable specification stated or cited in this chapter, and
suitable for the proposed use.
APPROVED ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (AVB) DEVICE: An assembly of bronze body,
poppet of molded plastic for use on cold water only, device shall have one only
upstream, mainline resilient seat shutoff valve and device shall be installed
not less than six inches (6") above the highest outlet on the line.
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly that has been manufactured
in full conformance with the standards established by the American Waterworks
Association (AWWA) entitled: AWWA C506-69, "Standards For Reduced Pressure
Principle And Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Assembly", and have met
completely the laboratory and field performance specifications of the
Foundation Of Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research Of The University
Of Southern California (established by the most current specifications of
backflow prevention devices).
APPROVED DOUBLE CHECK VALVE (DCV) ASSEMBLY: An assembly of two (2) wye pattern
bronze or ductile iron body independently operating internally loaded approved
check valves with tightly closing resilient seated gate valves or full port
ball valve test cocks for the testing of each check valve. These devices shall
be installed a minimum of twelve inches (12") and thirty six inches (36")
maximum, aboveground with belowground installation with approval of the city,
twelve inches (12") clearance each side and accessible for in line maintenance
and testing.
APPROVED DOUBLE DETECTOR CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DDC): An assembly of two (2) wye
pattern bodies independently operating internally spring loaded center stem
guided type check valves, all internal metals shall be of similar type, bodies
shall be of ductile iron, fifteen (15) to twenty (20) mils epoxy coated
internally with standard one hundred twenty five (125) pound flanges, two (2)
mainline resilient seat shutoff gate valves, four (4) full port ball valve test
cocks. Bypass shall consist of one approved double check valve, static pressure
drop across the bypass double check valve assembly shall be two (2) psi less
than the mainline check valve assembly.
APPROVED PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER (PVB) DEVICE: An assembly consisting of an all
bronze body, canopy, air relief poppet, one internally spring loaded check
valve, two (2) mainline resilient seat gate valves or full port ball valves and
two (2) ball valve test cocks. Device shall be designed for continuous pressure
usage, minimum head loss and serviceable in line. Device shall be installed not
less than twelve inches (12") above the highest piping or outlet downstream
with twelve inches (12") side clearance.
APPROVED REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE (RPP) DEVICE: An assembly of two (2) wye
pattern bronze or ductile iron body internally spring loaded, center stem guide
check valves, internal parts shall be of stainless steel, body fifteen (15) to
twenty (20) mils epoxy coated internally, with one differential diaphragm
relief valve which shall automatically reduce the pressure in the zone between
the two (2) check valves. The device shall operate to maintain the pressure in
the zone between the two (2) check valves at a level less than the pressure on
the public water supply side of the device. During normal flow, and at
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the two (2) check valves shall
be at least two (2) psi less than the upstream supply pressure. In case of
leakage of either of the check valves, the differential relief valve shall
operate to maintain this reduced pressure by discharging to the atmosphere. The
device shall have two (2) mainline shutoff resilient seat gate valves, or full
ported ball valves and four (4) ball valve test cocks. These devices shall be
installed a minimum of twelve inches (12") and a maximum of thirty six inches
(36") aboveground only and twelve inches (12") side clearance.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the city public potable water supply. These auxiliary waters may include
water from another purveyor's public potable water supply or any natural source
(s) such as a well, spring, irrigation canal or pipeline, etc., or "used
waters" or "industrial fluids". These waters may be polluted or contaminated or
they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
BACKFLOW: A flow condition, induced by a differential in pressure that causes
the flow of water or other liquids into the distribution pipes of the city
water supply from any source other than its intended source.
BACKFLOW PREVENTER: A device or means designed to prevent backflow or
backsiphonage.
BACKPRESSURE: The resulting backflow or contamination, polluted, or otherwise
unacceptable quality water from a plumbing fixture or other customer source(s)
into the city water supply system due to a greater pressure within the
customer's water system.
BACKSIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distributing pipes of the city water supply system from any source other
than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction or pressure in the city
water supply system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the city water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds, or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
CONTROLLED CROSS CONNECTION: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention device properly
installed that will continuously afford the protection commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved
backflow prevention device at the water service connection to any customer's
premises where it is physically and economically infeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross connections
within the customer's water system; or it shall mean the installation of an
approved backflow prevention device on the service line leading to and
supplying a portion of a customer's water system where there are actual or
potential cross connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or
controlled at the point of cross connection.
CUSTOMER: The water user served by the city water system.
CUSTOMER'S WATER SYSTEM: The piping and parts used to convey water supplied by
the city water system throughout the customer's premises, including those
parts, facilities, and improvements described in section
8-1-13-4A.
DEGREE OF HAZARD: The evaluation of the potential risk to public health and the
adverse effect of hazard upon the city water system as defined herein.
   Health Hazard: Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply system
and its operation which could create, or in the judgment of the director may
create, a danger to the health and well being of the water consumer.
   Industrial Fluids System: Any system containing fluid or solution which may
be chemically, biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form of
concentration such as would constitute a health, water system, pollution or
plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include,
but not be limited to, polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process
waters and "used waters" originating from the city water system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids;
alkalis; circulated cooling tower waters, open or closed, that may be
chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with toxic substances;
contaminated natural waters such as form wells, springs, streams, irrigation
canals; oils; gases; glycerin; caustic and other acid solutions which may be
used for industrial and firefighting purposes.
   Plumbing Hazard: A cross connection in a consumer's potable water system
that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air gap separation,
or backflow prevention device. The term "plumbing hazard" includes, but is not
limited to, cross connections to toilets, sinks, lavatories, wash trays,
washing machines or lawn sprinkling systems. Unprotected plumbing type cross
connections shall be considered to be a health hazard.
   Pollution Hazard: An actual or potential threat to the physical properties
of the water system or to the potability of the public or consumer's potable
water system, but which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically
objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but
would not be dangerous to public health.
   System Hazard: An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the city water system or the consumer's potable water
system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a protracted effect
on the quality of the potable water in the system.
DIRECTOR: The director of the public works department of the city of Reedley,
or his designee.
FIRE MARSHAL: The fire chief of the city of Reedley or state fire marshal, or
their designee.
IDENTIFICATION: Each assembly shall have the following information securely
attached or embossed on each unit:
   A.   Manufacturer's name;
   B.   Size;
   C.   Model number;
   D.   Direction of flow, by arrow;
   E.   Device serial number;
   F.   Maximum working water pressure (MWWP);
   G.   Maximum working water temperature (MWWT).
INSTALLATION: Each assembly shall be installed a minimum of twelve inches (12")
and a maximum of thirty six inches (36") aboveground, twelve inches (12") side
clearance from any structure and as close to the city's meter location as may
be possible.
NFPA: The National Fire Protection Association.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in the water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute
a hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which
does not create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely
and unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
WATER, NONPOTABLE: "Nonpotable water" means water which is not safe for human
consumption or which is of questionable potability.
WATER, POTABLE: "Potable water" means any water which, according to recognized
standards, is safe for human consumption.
WATER PURVEYOR, PUBLIC; MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM: "Public water purveyor" or
"city water system" means the city of Reedley public water system.
WATER SERVICE CONNECTION: The terminal end of a service connection from the
city potable water system; i.e., where the water purveyor loses jurisdiction
and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer's
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection,
then the "service connection" shall mean the downstream end of the meter. There
should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of any meter or
backflow prevention device located at the point of delivery to the customer's
water system. Service connection shall also include water service connection
from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service
connections from the city potable water system.
WATER, USED: "Used water" means any water supplied by the city potable water
system to a customer's water system after it has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of the city. (Ord. 2009-
02, 7-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 12-10-2019)
8-1-13-3: RESPONSIBILITY:
The director of public works shall be responsible for the protection of the
public potable water system from contamination or pollution due to the backflow
or backsiphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the water service
connection.
If, in the judgment of the director, an approved backflow prevention device is
required at the city's water service connection to any customer's premises, for
the safety of the water system, the director shall give notice in writing to
said customer to install such an approved backflow prevention assembly at each
service connection to his premises. The customer shall immediately install such
approved device or devices at his own expense; and failure, refusal, or
inability on the part of the customer to install said device or devices
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such devices have been properly installed. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-
2009)
8-1-13-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Water System:
      1.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts:
the city system and the customer system.
      2.   The city system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under complete control of the city, from the source of supply up to the point
where the customer's system begins. The city system shall include all
components of the facilities utilized in the production, treatment, storage and
the delivery of water to the distribution system.
      3.   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used
for the delivery of water from the source to the customer's system.
      4.   The customer's system shall include any and all water infrastructure
on the customer's side of the city's water meter. In the event that a city
water meter does not exist, the customer's system shall begin at the point of
connection to the city's water main pipe. Within a gated or private community
all water infrastructure, with the exception of the city's water meter, located
within the private property or gated community including all water piping,
valves, and hydrants, beginning at the point of connection to the city's water
distribution main shall be the sole responsibility of the customer(s).
      5.   Private Fire Service: The customer assumes full responsibility for
the operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of any private fire system
from the connection point to the city's water main pipe.
   B.   Policy:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the city water department unless the water supply is protected as
required by state laws and this chapter. Service of water to any premises shall
be discontinued by the director if a backflow prevention device required by
state law or this chapter is not installed, tested or maintained, or if it is
found that a backflow prevention device has been removed, bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
      2.   The customer's system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to authorized representatives of the director, city building inspector
and city fire marshal to determine whether cross connections or other
structural or sanitary hazards, including violations of this chapter, exist.
When such a condition becomes known, the director shall deny or immediately
discontinue service to their premises by providing for a physical break in the
service line until the customer has corrected the condition(s) in conformance
with state and city regulations relating to this chapter, plumbing and water
supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall also be installed on
each service line to a customer's water system at or near the property line or
immediately outside the building being served; but in all cases before the
first branch line leading off the service line. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009; amd.
Ord. 2019-009, 12-10-2019)
8-1-13-5: TYPE OF PROTECTIVE DEVICE REQUIRED:
   A.   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water supply
which is not otherwise subject to the provisions of this chapter, the city
water system shall be protected by an approved air gap (AG) separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle (RPP) backflow prevention device.
   B.   In the case of any premises where there is any water or substance that
would be objectionable, but not hazardous to public health if introduced into
the public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an
approved double check valve (DCV) assembly.
   C.   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous to
health, which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or potential
hazard to the city water system, the city water system shall be protected by an
approved air gap (AG) separation or an approved reduced pressure principle
(RPP) backflow prevention device, i.e., sewage treatment plants, pumping
stations, chemical plants, hospitals and mortuaries.
   D.   In the case of any premises where there are "uncontrolled" cross
connections, either actual or potential, the city water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap (AG) separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle (RPP) backflow prevention device at the service connection.
   E.   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements or
other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impracticable to make a
complete in plant cross connection survey, the city water system shall be
protected against backflow or backsiphonage from the premises by the
installation of an approved backflow prevention device in the service line. In
this case, maximum protection will be required; that is, an approved air gap
(AG) separation or a reduced pressure principle (RPP) backflow prevention
device shall be installed in each service to the premises.
   F.   In the case of premises having any internal cross connection that
cannot be permanently corrected and controlled, or intricate plumbing and
piping arrangements, or where entry to all portions of the premises is not
readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it impracticable or
impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross connections exist, the
city water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
installing an approved air gap (AG) separation or reduced pressure principle
(RPP) backflow prevention device in the service. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-6: SPECIFIC TYPES REQUIRED:
The following uses, and other uses as designated by the director, shall be
required to install a backflow prevention device of the type indicated as a
minimum as follows:
Use Type
Use                                     Type
Air conditioning plants (commercial AC  RPP
equipment)
Animal clinics, animal grooming shops   RPP
and boarding
Apartment or office complex with pond,  RPP
lake or fountain
Apartments with laundromats/laundry     DCV/RPP
rooms
Automatic or manual irrigation systems: PVB
Commercial or private                   DCV/RPP
Automobile repair with steam cleaner,   RPP
acid cleaning or solvent equipment
Auxiliary water system not              DCV
interconnected
Auxiliary water system or sources
interconnected (well, irrigation canal, RPP
etc.)
Bakeries                                RPP
Barbershops, beauty shops or salons     DCV/RPP
Bars or cocktail lounges                DCV/RPP
Bottling plants - beverage or chemical  RPP
Building 2 stories and higher           RPP
Buildings with booster pumps, boilers,  RPP
and cooling towers
Buildings with sewage pumps             AG
Canneries, packinghouses or reduction   RPP
plants
Car washes                              RPP
Chemical processing or storage          RPP
facilities
Chemically treated (nonpotable) water   RPP
systems
Chemically treated (potable) water      DCV
systems
Churches with baptismal pools           RPP
Civic works exempt from city of Reedley RPP
inspection
Cleaning and dye plants                 RPP
Cold storage and ice manufacturing      RPP
plants
Commercial meat cutting, packaging and  RPP
cold storage lockers
Concrete plant                          DCV/RPP
Convalescent homes and clinics          DCV/RPP
Convenience markets                     DCV/RPP
Dairies                                 DCV/RPP
Dental offices                          RPP
Dialysis clinics, experimental labs     RPP
Fabricating plants (plastics and        RPP
fiberglass)
Fire protection systems classes 1 and 2
(no protection required with permission DDC
from specialist)
Fire protection systems class 3         DDC
Fire protection systems class 4         RPP/DDC
Fire protection systems class 5         RPP
Fire protection systems class 6         Determination by director and fire
                                        chief
Food processing facilities using        DCV/RPP
nontoxic materials
Food processing facilities using toxic  RPP
materials
Frozen food processing plant            RPP
Garden centers and nurseries            RPP
Gas service stations                    DCV/RPP
Health spas                             RPP
Hospitals                               RPP
Laboratories                            RPP
Landscaping with elevated areas or with RPP
drip irrigation
Laundries, commercial                   RPP
Laundromats (with boilers)              RPP
Machine shops                           RPP
Manufacturing, processing and           DCV
fabrication facilities, nontoxic
Manufacturing, processing and           RPP
fabrication facilities, toxic materials
Medical offices                         RPP
Metal stripping facilities              RPP
Mobile home parks                       DCV/RPP
Mobile services (pest control, drain    RPP
cleaning, steam cleaning, rug cleaning)
Mortuaries and morgues                  RPP
Offices or shopping centers with        RPP
uncommitted lease spaces
Oil and gas bulk or production          DCV/RPP
facilities
Painting shops using water in any       RPP
process
Paper processing and production         RPP
facilities
Pest control business                   RPP
Photography studios with processing     RPP
equipment
Planting works                          RPP
Portable insecticide and herbicide      DCV/AG/RPP
spray tanks (filling from hydrants)
Radiator shops - repair or backflushing RPP
Reduction and rendering meat processing RPP
plants
Rest homes, ground floor only           DCV
Rest homes, multi-story                 RPP
Restaurants or buildings with
commercial kitchen (180 degree water,   RPP
commercial dishwasher)
Schools with kitchens, chemistry labs,  RPP
boilers and irrigation systems
Sewage and stormwater pumping           RPP/AG
facilities
Swimming pools                          RPZ/PVB
Tank trucks filling from fire hydrants  DCV/AG
Temporary construction water            DCV/AG
 
(Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-7: FIRE SYSTEM BACKFLOW; PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS:
The following are the minimum backflow devices required to satisfy containment
requirements and shall apply to those fire protection systems connected to the
city water system (see AWWA M-14 and NFPA).
The director may require additional protection for the city water system if he
deems it necessary due to potential contamination.
   A.   Class I: Direct connection from city water mains only; no pumps, tanks,
or reservoirs; no physical connection from other water supplies; no antifreeze
or other additives of any kind; all sprinkler drains discharging to atmosphere,
dry wells, or other safe outlets.
   B.   Class II: Same as class I, except that booster pumps may be installed
in the connections from the street mains (booster pumps do not affect the
potability of the system; it is necessary, however, to avoid drafting so much
water that pressure in the water main is reduced below 20 psi).
   C.   Device - class I and class II: No protection required with approval of
the director.
   D.   Class III: Direct connection from city water supply main plus one or
more of the following: elevated storage tanks; fire pumps taking suction from
aboveground, covered reservoirs or tanks; and pressure tanks (all storage
facilities are filled or connected to the city water only, the water in the
tanks to be maintained in a potable condition).
   E.   Device - class III: Approved double check valve (DCV) installed as
outlined in class I and class II.
   F.   Class IV: Directly supplied from city water mains similar to classes I
and II, and with an auxiliary water supply on or available to the premises; or
an auxiliary supply located within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of
the pumper connection.
   G.   Device - class IV: Reduced pressure principle (RPP) device or double
check valve (DCV); the valve shall be aboveground installation and as near the
city water system as possible.
   H.   Class V: Directly supplied from city water mains, and interconnected
with auxiliary supplies, such as: pumps taking suction from reservoirs exposed
to contamination, or rivers and ponds; wells, mills or other industrial water
systems; or where antifreeze or other additives are used.
   I.   Device - class V: Reduced pressure principle (RPP) device installed
aboveground and as near the city water system as possible.
   J.   Class VI: Combined industrial and fire protection systems applied from
the city water mains only, with or without gravity storage or pump suction
tanks.
   K.   Device - class VI: Protection device would be determined after fire
marshal and director had made a complete survey of the fire protection
requirements of the premises. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-8: WATER SHUTOFF CONDITIONS:
When water users are found that pose a clear and immediate hazard to the city
water supply and these hazards cannot be immediately abated, the shutoff
procedures should be initiated. Conditions requiring water shutoff shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Refusal to test backflow prevention device.
   B.   Refusal to repair or replace faulty backflow prevention device.
   C.   Direct or indirect connection between the city water system and a sewer
system.
   D.   Unprotected direct or indirect connection between the city water system
and a system or equipment containing toxic chemicals or sewage.
   E.   Unprotected direct or indirect connection between the city water system
and auxiliary water system.
   F.   Unprotected direct connection between the city water system and
nonpotable nonpressure system.
   G.   Refusals to correct violations. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-9: WATER SHUTOFF PROCEDURE FOR IMMEDIATE PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD:
When it becomes necessary to shut off a user's water, the following steps shall
be followed:
   A.   The director shall determine the degree of hazard to public health (see
definition of "degree of hazard" in section
8-1-13-2 of this chapter).
   B.   If it is determined to be an immediate public health hazard:
      1.   Immediately discontinue user's service;
      2.   Verbally notify the user;
      3.   Follow up with a certified letter of corrections to be taken prior
to service being restored;
      4.   If degree is high hazard, immediate notification to state and county
health departments. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-10: PREVENTION DEVICE CERTIFICATION OF APPROVAL:
Any backflow prevention device required in this chapter shall be of a model and
size approved by the director.
Final approval of any assembly or system proposed for installation under the
terms of this chapter shall be evidenced by a "certificate of approval" issued
by an approved testing laboratory certifying full compliance with said AWWA
standards and FCCC & HR specifications. The following testing laboratory has
been qualified by the director to test and certify backflow preventers:
   Foundation for Cross-Connection Control & Hydraulic Research
   University of Southern California, University Park
   Los Angeles, CA 90007
Testing laboratories other than the laboratory listed above will be added to an
approved list as they are qualified by the director. Backflow preventers which
may be subject to backpressure or backsiphonage that have been fully tested and
have been granted a certificate of approval by the qualified laboratory and are
listed on the laboratory's current list of "approved devices" may be used
without further test or qualifications. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-11: APPLICATION TO INSTALL PREVENTION DEVICES:
Prior to the installation of any backflow prevention device between the public
water system and the owner's facility, the owner or contractor shall make
application and receive approval from the director. Application forms are
available from the public works department and the building and planning
department. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-12: ASSEMBLY INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the director at any premises where backflow prevention
assemblies are installed to have a certified inspection and operational test
made at least once per year. In those instances where the director deems the
hazard to be great enough, he may require certified testing and inspections at
more frequent intervals. These inspections and tests may be at the expense of
the water user and shall be performed by the city's water service department's
certified personnel, or by a certified tester approved by the director. It
shall be the duty of the director to see that these timely tests are made. The
customer user shall be notified by the director in advance when the tests are
to be undertaken so that he or his representative may witness the tests if it
is so desired. Those devices found to be defective shall be repaired,
overhauled, or replaced at the expense of the customer user. Records of such
tests, repairs, and overhaul shall be kept by the public works department.
(Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-13: QUALIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION OF PERSON TO INSPECT AND MAINTAIN
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   No person shall be qualified to inspect and maintain backflow
prevention devices unless his qualifications have been established by AWWA and
to the satisfaction of the director as hereinafter required. To determine the
qualifications of any person to inspect and maintain backflow prevention
devices, the director shall have the authority to conduct additional
examinations as he may deem necessary. Upon successful completion of such
examination and such training as the director shall prescribe, that person must
receive a certificate of competence from the AWWA verifying he is qualified to
inspect, test and maintain backflow prevention devices. Every person, after
receiving a certificate of competence, shall be issued such identification as
the director shall deem appropriate and such identification shall be kept in
the immediate possession of every person holding a certificate of competence
while said person is inspecting or maintaining any backflow prevention device
in the city.
   B.   Every person holding a "certificate of competence" issued under the
provisions of this section shall be required to renew the certificate every
three (3) years. Reexamination may be waived at the discretion of the director.
   C.   Every person receiving a "certificate of competence" under the
provisions of this section shall be responsible for the competency and accuracy
of all inspections and maintenance performed by him on any backflow prevention
device.
   D.   Any person issued a "certificate of competence" who violates or fails
to comply with any of the provisions of this section or willingly falsifies
inspection or maintenance reports submitted to the director shall have the
certificate immediately revoked, and shall not be considered for
recertification for a period of two (2) years. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-14: AMENDMENTS:
All amendments as may be necessary by title 17 of the California Code of
Regulations, American Waterworks Association (AWWA) and the director, or rates,
fees and compensation to be charged and collected by the city for services
shall be reviewed, revised and established by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-13-15: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
The director shall have the authority to immediately discontinue service to any
premises where cross connections or other hazards to the water system are found
to exist, and shall not again render service to said premises until such
conditions are eliminated in accordance with this section
8-1-13. Any consumer who wilfully violates any of the provisions of this
section
8-1-13, or alters, bypasses or renders inoperative any backflow prevention
device installed under the provisions of this section
8-1-13 shall, in addition to immediate discontinuance of water service, be
deemed guilty of an infraction and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
the penalties prescribed by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-02, 7-28-2009)
8-1-14: WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Provisions: The provisions of the most current model water efficient
landscaping ordinance, as published by the California department of water
resources, pursuant to the California water conservation in landscaping act 1 ,
shall apply within the city of Reedley commencing on January 1, 2010. The
provisions of the model ordinance shall apply until such time as the city may
adopt an ordinance at least as effective in conserving water as the model
ordinance, with appropriate findings. A copy of the most current version of the
model water efficient landscaping ordinance shall be retained on file in the
offices of the city planner and city clerk at all times.
   B.   Enforcement; Penalties: A violation of the provisions of the model
ordinance shall be deemed a violation of this code subject to the same
enforcement proceedings and penalties as any other violation of this code.
(Ord. 2010-01, 1-26-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. Gov.C. § 65591 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
PRIVATE AND PUBLIC SEWERS AND DRAINS
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Provisions
8-2-1-1: Purpose And Policy
8-2-1-2: Administration
8-2-1-3: Abbreviations
8-2-1-4: Definitions
8-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal
8-2-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-5: General Sewer Use Requirements
8-2-5-1: Prohibited Discharge Standards
8-2-5-2: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
8-2-5-3: Specific Wastewater Limitations
8-2-5-4: Grease, Oil, And Sand Interceptors
8-2-5-5: Right Of Revision
8-2-5-6: Dilution Prohibited
8-2-6: Pretreatment Of Wastewater
8-2-6-1: Pretreatment Facilities
8-2-6-2: Additional Pretreatment Measures
8-2-6-3: Control Manholes
8-2-6-4: Sewage Sampling, Analysis, And Flow Measurement
8-2-6-5: Salinity Control Plan
8-2-6-6: Accidental Discharge/Slug Control Plans
8-2-6-7: Wastewater Survey
8-2-6-8: Wastewater Analysis
8-2-7: Wastewater Discharge Permits
8-2-7-1: Permit Requirement
8-2-7-2: Permitting; Existing Users
8-2-7-3: Permitting; New Users
8-2-7-4: Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Categories
8-2-7-5: Permit Application Contents
8-2-7-6: Application Signatories And Certification
8-2-7-7: Permit Decisions
8-2-7-8: Permit Duration
8-2-7-9: Permit Contents
8-2-7-10: Permit Appeals
8-2-7-11: Permit Modification
8-2-7-12: Permits Nontransferable
8-2-7-13: Permit Revocation
8-2-7-14: Permit Reissuance
8-2-8: Reporting Requirements
8-2-8-1: Industrial Users Subject To Categorical Pretreatment Standards
8-2-8-2: Significant Industrial Users Not Subject To Categorical Pretreatment
Standards
8-2-8-3: Changed Conditions
8-2-8-4: Potential Problems Including Slug Discharges
8-2-8-5: Unpermitted Users
8-2-8-6: Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting
8-2-8-7: Notification Of Discharge Of Hazardous Wastes
8-2-8-8: Compliance Schedules
8-2-8-9: Timing
8-2-8-10: Signatories And Certification
8-2-8-11: Recordkeeping
8-2-8-12: Monitoring And Analysis To Demonstrate Continued Compliance
8-2-9: Compliance Monitoring
8-2-9-1: Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling
8-2-9-2: Search Warrants
8-2-10: Confidential Information
8-2-11: Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
8-2-12: Administrative Enforcement Remedies
8-2-12-1: Notification Of Violation
8-2-12-2: Consent Orders
8-2-12-3: Show Cause Hearing
8-2-12-4: Compliance Orders
8-2-12-5: Cease And Desist Orders
8-2-12-6: Administrative Fines
8-2-12-7: Appeals
8-2-12-8: Emergency Suspensions
8-2-12-9: Termination Of Discharge
8-2-13: Judicial Enforcement Remedies
8-2-13-1: Injunctive Relief
8-2-13-2: Civil Penalties
8-2-13-3: Criminal Prosecution
8-2-13-4: Remedies Nonexclusive
8-2-14: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
8-2-14-1: Upset
8-2-14-2: Prohibited Discharge Standards
8-2-14-3: Bypass
8-2-15: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-2-15-1: Public Nuisances
8-2-15-2: Pretreatment Charges And Fees
8-2-15-3: Effective Date
8-2-15-4: Severability
8-2-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
8-2-1-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly owned
treatment works (POTW) for the city of Reedley and enables the city to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the clean water act (33
United States Code section 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 code of federal regulations part 403). The objectives of this
chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will pass
through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be
incompatible with POTW;
   C.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge from
the POTW;
   E.   To enable the city to comply with its waste discharge requirements
(WDR) and national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit
conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other federal or
state laws to which the POTW is subject.
This chapter shall apply to all users of the POTW. This chapter authorizes the
issuance of wastewater discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance,
and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; and
requires user reporting. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-1-2: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the director of public works, shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the director of public works may be delegated
by the director of public works to other city personnel. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-
2014)
8-2-1-3: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
ASTM  American Society For Testing And Materials
BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR   Code of federal regulations
COD   Chemical oxygen demand
CWA   Clean water act, as amended (33 USC 1251 et seq.)
EPA   U.S. environmental protection agency
gpd   Gallons per day
mg/l  Milligrams per liter
NPDES National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA  Resource conservation and recovery act (42 USC 6901 et seq.)
RWQCB California regional water quality control board, Central Valley region
SIC   Standard industrial classification
SNC   Significant noncompliance
SWDA  Solid waste disposal act (42 USC 6901 et seq.)
TSS   Total suspended solids
USC   United States Code
WPCF  Water pollution control facility
 
(Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
ACT OR THE ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the
clean water act, as amended, 33 USC section 1251 et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person or group of persons who applies for the use of the city's
POTW.
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The state of California regional water quality control
board, Central Valley region (RWQCB).
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER:
   A.   If the user is a corporation: The president or vice president.
   B.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: A general partner
or proprietor, respectively.
   C.   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: A
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
   D.   The individuals described in subsections A through C of this
definition, may designate another authorized representative if the
authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or
position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters
for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five (5) days at twenty degrees Centigrade (20°C), usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g., mg/l).
BUILDING: Any structure erected for the support, shelter, and enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODES: The building and plumbing codes as adopted in
section
9-1-1 of this code.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user's pretreatment facility.
CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER: All industrial users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards.
CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
sections 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 USC section 1317) which apply to a
specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405-471.
CESSPOOL: An excavation in the ground which receives the discharge of a
drainage system, or part thereof, so designed and constructed as to retain the
organic matter and solids discharged therein, but permitting the liquids to
seep through the bottom and sides.
CITY: The city of Reedley.
CITY ATTORNEY: The city attorney of the city of Reedley.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Reedley.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Reedley.
COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE: The period that is allowed by the city in which an
industrial user must comply with its permit conditions or discharge
requirements.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
COUNTY: The county of Fresno or its designated representative.
COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER OR HEALTH OFFICER: The health officer for Fresno County.
DAILY MAXIMUM: The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a pollutant
collected during a calendar day.
DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT: The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The director of public works for the city of Reedley
or his or her representative.
DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Shall mean and include all the piping within public or private
premises which conveys sewage, or other liquid wastes, to a point of disposal,
but shall not include the mains or laterals of a public sewer system.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA: The U.S. environmental protection
agency or, where appropriate, the regional water management division director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
EXISTING SOURCE: Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307 of the act.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream without regard to the
flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15)
minutes.
GREASE INTERCEPTOR: A device for retaining grease or oil by gravity
differential separation from waste effluent and of a design and capacity
approved by the department having jurisdiction.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into the POTW
from any nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the
act.
INDUSTRIAL USER OR USER: A source of indirect discharge.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sewage.
INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT: The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both: a) inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal;
and b) therefore, is a cause of a violation of the POTW's WDR/NPDES permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the following
statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more
stringent state or local regulations: section 405 of the clean water act; the
solid waste disposal act, including title II commonly referred to as the
resource conservation and recovery act (RCRA); any state regulations contained
in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the
solid waste disposal act; the clean air act; the toxic substances control act;
the marine protection, research, and sanctuaries act; and 40 CFR 503 (sewage
sludge regulations).
LOCAL LIMIT: Any requirement or prohibition against pollutant discharges from
any nondomestic user, as established by the city, to address federal, state,
and local regulations.
LOT: A single or individual parcel or area of land legally recorded, on which
is situated a building together with the yards, courts, and unoccupied spaces
legally required for the building and which is owned by or is in the lawful
possession of the owner of the building.
MEDICAL WASTE: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, pharmaceutical
wastes, and dialysis wastes.
NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any regulation containing pollutant discharge
limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the
act, which applies to industrial users. This term includes prohibitive
discharge limits established pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
NEW SOURCE:
   A.   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is
(or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection A2 or A3 of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
   C.   Construction of a new source has commenced if the owner or operator
has:
      1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on site
construction program:
         a.   ny placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
         b.   ignificant site preparation work including clearing, excavation,
or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
      2.   ntered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
subsection C2.
NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
PASS-THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW in quantities or concentrations
which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the city's WDR/NPDES
permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
PERMIT: Any written authorization by the director of public works to install or
construct sewers or to connect to and discharge to the POTW pursuant to this or
any other regulation of the city.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This
definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental entities.
pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard
units.
POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
PREMISES: Any lot, piece or parcel of land, any building or other structure or
any part of any building or structure used or useful for human habitation or
gathering or for carrying on a business or occupation.
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT FACILITY: Any works or device for the treatment or flow limitation
of sewage, liquid waste or industrial waste prior to its discharge into the
POTW.
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Absolute prohibitions
against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions appear in
section
8-2-5-1 of this chapter.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow condition normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by the city of Reedley.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS OR POTW: A "treatment works", as defined by
section 212 of the act (33 USC section 1292) which is owned by the city. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
REEDLEY MUNICIPAL CODE OR THIS CODE: The municipal code for the city of
Reedley.
REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR: Region IX of the environmental protection agency.
SAND INTERCEPTOR: A device for retaining sand, grit, or other mineral material
by gravity differential separation from waste effluent, and of a design and
capacity approved by the director of public works.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and wastewater, and to which
storm, surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEPTIC TANK: A watertight receptacle which receives the discharge of a drainage
system or part thereof, designed and constructed so as to retain solids, digest
organic matter through a period of detention, and allow the liquids to
discharge into the soil outside of the tank through a system of open joint
piping, or a seepage pit meeting the requirements of this code.
SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
SEWAGE: Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for holding and carrying sewage and wastewater,
including the manholes and all other appurtenant facilities which are necessary
or convenient to the holding or carrying of sewage and wastewater, but shall
not include house drain or plumbing within the house.
SEWER SERVICE: The services and facilities for treatment and disposal of sewage
furnished or available to premises by the POTW.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER:
   A.   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
   B.   A user that:
      1.   Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gpd or more
of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and
boiler blowdown wastewater); or
      2.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
      3.   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   C.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection B of this
definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from a user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine
that such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
SLUG LOAD OR SLUG DISCHARGE: Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in section
8-2-5-1 of this chapter. A slug discharge is any discharge of a nonroutine,
episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a
noncustomary batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass-through, or in any other way violate the POTW's
regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE: A classification pursuant to the
"Standard Industrial Classification Manual" issued by the United States office
of management and budget.
STANDARD METHODS: The current edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination
Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or
is suspended in water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which is removable by
laboratory filtering. This is also called suspended matter in standard methods.
UNSANITARY: A condition which is contrary to sanitary principles or is
injurious to health. Conditions to which the word "unsanitary" shall apply
include the following, but shall not be limited thereto:
   A.   The discharge of sewage to the atmosphere or the ground surface without
proper treatment.
   B.   Any opening in a drainage system, except where lawful, which would
permit the escape of gases or sewage or would permit persons to make physical
contact with the sewage.
   C.   Faulty septic tanks or drainfields permitting sewage to seep or stand
on the surface of the ground.
   D.   Any connection, cross connection, construction, or condition, temporary
or permanent, which would permit or make possible by any means whatsoever for
any amount of water or polluted waters to enter a water distribution system
used for domestic purposes.
USER OR INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge.
WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS OR WDR: Requirements issued to the City by the
California Regional Water Quality Control Board for disposal of treated
wastewater pursuant to Water Code section 13263.
WASTEWATER: Liquid and water carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW that is
designed to provide treatment of Municipal sewage and industrial waste.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City, any sewage or other
polluted water, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City,
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sewer of the City, is hereby required
at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one hundred feet
(100') of the property line.
   E.   Septic tank systems which are in existence on the effective date of
this chapter, situated within the City, are subject to the following:
For properties not within one hundred feet (100') of a public sewer, connection
to public sewer will not be required if the septic tank system is operating in
a manner satisfactory to the City Health Department and Director of Public
Works. In the event of failure of said system, permits may be issued for
replacement of said system or for remedial work thereon. At any time, a
property owner may elect to establish a City sewer connection in accordance
with section
8-2-4 of this chapter.
For properties within one hundred feet (100') of a public sewer, connection to
the public sewer will not be required if the septic tank system is operating in
a manner satisfactory to the City Health Department and Director of Public
Works. In the event of failure of said system or the public health, welfare and
safety require the abandonment of said septic tank system, no permit shall be
issued for replacement of said system or for remedial work thereon. In event of
such system failure or requirement for abandonment, the property on which said
septic tank system is located, shall be connected to the public sewer within
ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so in accordance with the
provisions of this section, and the private sewage disposal system cleaned of
sludge and filled with sand, gravel or dirt, all at the expense of the owner of
said property. (Ord. 2018-009, 1-8-2019)
8-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of
subsection
8-2-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Director of
Public Works. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works.
A permit and inspection fee, pursuant to section
8-3-2 of this title, shall be paid to the City at the time the application is
filed.
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Director of Public Works. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Director of Public Works when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of notice by the Director of
Public Works.
   D.   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of public
health. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection 8-2-2D of this
chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material, at no
expense to the city.
   F.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   G.   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirement that may be imposed by the health officer.
   H.   After a public sewer becomes available in accordance with the
provisions of subsection 8-2-2D of this chapter, the private sewage disposal
system shall be allowed to remain in use so long as its operation is
satisfactory to the county health department and the director of public works
and the health, safety and welfare of the public is not affected by such
continued use. In event of failure of said system or the public health, safety
and welfare requires the abandonment of said system, no permit shall be issued
for replacement of said system or for remedial work thereon, and the owner
thereof is required, at his expense, to connect the property served by said
private system to the public sewer within ninety (90) days after date of
official notice to do so and to clean the sludge from said private system and
fill same with sand, gravel or dirt.
   I.   Any property on which a private sewage disposal system is presently in
existence may, as a condition to the issuance of a building permit for
construction thereon, the valuation for which exceeds thirty percent (30%) of
the estimated market value of existing building improvements thereon, or as a
condition to any further development on said property, be required to abandon
said disposal system and connect to the public sewer in accordance with
provisions of subsection
8-2-2D of this chapter at no expense to the city. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the director of public works.
   B.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential and commercial services, and 2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes.
   C.   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the director of public works. A permit and
inspection fee in accordance with section
8-3-2 of this title, shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   D.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   E.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be construed in the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, or as provided in section
8-3-4 of this title.
   F.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the director of public works to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
   G.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes, and section
8-3-3 of this title or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In
the absence of code provisions or in the amplification thereof, the materials
and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF
manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
   H.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   I.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   J.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of practice no. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the director of
public works before installation.
   K.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the director
of public works when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
director of public works, or his representative.
   L.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. (Ord. 2014-
003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-5: GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS:
8-2-5-1: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through or
interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      2.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0, in accordance with 40 CFR
403.5, or otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or
equipment. In addition, the user must also meet the city's local limit in
section
8-2-5-3 of this chapter;
      3.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension;
      4.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
      5.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C), or which will inhibit biological activity in
the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that
the temperature at the introduction into the POTW treatment plant exceeds one
hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C);
      6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants;
      9.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      10.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent;
      11.   Any radioactive wastes. In the event of an accidental spill of
radioactive material into any public sewer, the person responsible shall:
         a.   Immediately notify the director of public works; and
         b.   Render such technical or other assistance to the city within its
power to prevent the POTW from becoming contaminated with radioactivity.
      12.   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the director of public works;
      13.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      14.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the director
of public works in a wastewater discharge permit;
      15.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      16.   Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      17.   Any dispersed biodegradable oils and fats, such as lard, tallow, or
vegetable oil, and any fats, oils, or greases of animal origin in amounts that
will cause interference or pass- through in the POTW;
      18.   Wastewater causing two (2) readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than
ten percent (10%) or any single reading over five percent (5%) of the lower
explosive limit of the meter.
   C.   Processing And Storage: Pollutants, substances, or wastewater
prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner
that they could be discharged to the POTW. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-5-2: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   A.   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the director
of public works may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(c).
   B.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is mixed
with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the director of public
works shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula
in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   C.   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   D.   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-5-3: SPECIFIC WASTEWATER LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Local Limits: The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass-through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following daily maximum concentration limits, as
determined from the analysis of any grab or composite sample collected:
Parameter Local Limit (mg/l Unless Otherwise Noted)
Parameter                             Local Limit (mg/l Unless Otherwise Noted)
Arsenic                               0.137
Boron                                 1.095
Cadmium                               0.015
Chloride                              750
Chromium (total)                      0.369
Copper                                0.570
Electrical conductivity, (µmhos/cm)  1,000
Lead                                  0.465
Mercury                               0.018
Molybdenum                            4.736
Nickel                                0.521
pH (standard units) (allowable range) 6.5 - 9.5
Selenium                              0.261
Silver                                0.403
Sodium                                205
Total oil and grease                  100
Zinc                                  0.740
 
      1.   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. The director of public works may impose more
restrictive limitations, or mass limitations in addition to, or in place of,
the concentration based limitations through any industrial user's discharge
permit.
      2.   The above limits may be revised from time to time by the city as may
be deemed necessary to protect the POTW from interference and pass-through, or
as may be required by the applicable federal, state, or local pretreatment
standards.
      3.   The director of public works may authorize discharges containing
higher concentrations on a site specific basis, provided that the
concentrations of such discharges shall not cause pass-through or interference.
Upon approval by the director of public works, site specific limitations shall
be established through the terms specified in the user's wastewater discharge
permit. The director of public works may impose mass limitations in addition
to, or in place of, concentration based limitations, due to reduced water usage
by an industrial user.
   B.   Slugs And Equalized Discharges: No person shall cause the discharge of
slugs of water or wastes. Each person producing a discharge of a slug into the
public sewers shall construct and maintain, at his own expense, a suitable
storage and flow control facility to ensure the equalization of the discharge
over a twenty four (24) hour period. Such facility shall have a capacity of at
least eighty percent (80%) of the total normal volume discharged during a
twenty four (24) hour production period, unless a smaller size is approved by
the director of public works, and the outlet to the sewer shall be equipped
with a rate discharge controller or other device approved by the director of
public works, the regulation of which shall be directed by the director of
public works. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-5-4: GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the director of public works, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
director of public works, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. All interceptors are large devices and
shall be exterior, in ground installations, provided that as to dischargers at
existing locations as of the effective date of this chapter, where it is
physically impossible to locate an interceptor at an exterior, in ground
location, the director of public works may grant an exception allowing the
interceptor to be placed in an approved interior location.
   B.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
   C.   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times. It is specifically prohibited to maintain interceptors by
bacteriological, chemical, or enzymatic addition or treatment.
   D.   Wastewater discharge permits may be issued to users of grease, oil, and
sand interceptors. Permits shall establish minimum requirements for the design,
operation, maintenance, and performance of the equipment. Permits may include
other information as described in this chapter.
   E.   The discharge of waste to a grease, oil, and sand interceptor is
subject to all sections of this chapter.
   F.   Purchase and installation of the interceptor shall be at the user's
expense. No exceptions shall be made to the requirements of this section due to
expense, size of the installation, or difficulties in locating the interceptor
within the site boundary. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-5-5: RIGHT OF REVISION:
The city reserves the right to establish, by this chapter or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to
the POTW. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-5-6: DILUTION PROHIBITED:
No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt to
dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly authorized
by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The director of public
works may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-6: PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER:
8-2-6-1: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in this chapter within
the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the director of public
works, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed
plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to
the director of public works for review, and shall be acceptable to the
director of public works before such facilities are constructed. The review of
such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-
22-2014)
8-2-6-2: ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES:
   A.   Whenever deemed necessary, the director of public works may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial
waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the
POTW and determine the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The director of public works may require any person discharging into
the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   C.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-6-3: CONTROL MANHOLES:
When required by the director of public works, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with the plans approved
by the director of public works and said manhole shall be installed by the
owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible to the city at all times. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-6-4: SEWAGE SAMPLING, ANALYSIS, AND FLOW MEASUREMENT:
Sampling for any analytical requirements of this chapter shall be in accordance
with the following:
   A.   Except as indicated in subsection B of this section, the industrial
user must collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite
collection techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible,
the director of public works may authorize the use of time proportional
sampling or through a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance
with instantaneous discharge limits.
   B.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
toxicity, sulfides, and volatile organic chemicals must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
   C.   The director of public works may use a grab sample(s) to determine
noncompliance with pretreatment standards.
   D.   All laboratory analyses of the characteristics of water and wastes
shall be determined in accordance with 40 CFR 136, as described in sections
8-2-8-1 and
8-2-8-2 of this chapter, and shall be determined at the control manhole. In the
event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   E.   The director of public works shall have reasonable access onto the
industrial user's property to collect samples and perform tests as defined in
section
8-2-9-1 of this chapter.
   F.   Periodic measurements of flow rates, flow volumes, BOD and suspended
solids for use in determining the monthly industrial wastewater treatment
service charge and such measurements of other constituents believed necessary
by the director of public works shall be made by all industrial users, unless
specifically relieved of such obligation by the director of public works.
   G.   All such sampling, analyses and flow measurements of industrial
wastewaters shall be performed by a state certified independent laboratory, by
a laboratory of an industrial user approved by the director of public works or
by personnel of the city. Prior to submittal to the director of public works of
data developed in the laboratory of an industrial user, the results shall be
verified by a responsible administrative official of the industrial user under
the penalty of perjury.
   H.   All users making periodic measurements shall furnish and install at the
control manholes or other appropriate location a calibrated flume, weir, flow
meter or similar device approved by the director of public works and suitable
to measure the industrial wastewater flow rate and total volume. A flow
indicating, recording and totalizing register may be required by the director
of public works. In lieu of wastewater flow measurement, the director of public
works may accept records of water usage and adjust the flow volumes by suitable
factors to determine peak and average flow rates for the specific industrial
wastewater discharge.
   I.   The minimum requirement for self-monitoring shall be at least two (2)
times per year for significant industrial users, whether or not they are
subject to national categorical standards.
   J.   Industrial users with large fluctuations in quantity or quality of
wastewater may be required to provide continuous sampling and analyses for
every day of operation. When required by the director of public works, users
shall install and maintain automatic flow proportional sampling equipment and/
or automatic analysis and recording equipment, approved by the director of
public works. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-6-5: SALINITY CONTROL PLAN:
   A.   Any discharger using bulk salt (greater than 100 pounds per day) for
product preparation and/or ancillary plant operations (such as water softeners
for boilers) or other chemicals that contribute salinity to the discharge,
shall implement and submit to the director of public works a salinity control
plan by the effective date of this chapter. The salinity control plan shall use
best management practices to reduce the electrical conductivity discharges
below the maximum concentration limitation provided in section
8-2-5-3 of this chapter. The salinity control plan shall contain the following
items, at a minimum:
      1.   Determinations or best estimates of the identities and approximate
quantities of salts used and discharged;
      2.   Descriptions of the major salting operations and locations of
potential salt release points on site drawing;
      3.   A spill prevention, control and countermeasures (SPCC) plan;
      4.   A description of the methods of salt waste removal and disposal;
      5.   A description of the employee training program for salinity control;
and
      6.   Identification of the person responsible for implementation of the
salinity control plan.
   B.   The salinity control plan shall be implemented and submitted to the
director of public works by the effective date of this chapter, and endorsed by
industry officials.
   C.   The salinity control plan shall be updated by the discharger during
renewal of the wastewater discharge permit.
   D.   In the case of any accidental slug or batch discharge of salt wastes
that causes the discharger's wastewater electrical conductivity to exceed the
maximum concentration limitation provided in section
8-2-5-3 of this chapter, the discharger shall immediately notify the director
of public works of such discharge and submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
discharger to prevent similar future occurrences, in accordance with section
8-2-8-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-6-6: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS:
At least once every two (2) years, the director of public works shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan. The director of public works may require any user to develop,
submit for approval, and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the director of
public works may develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   A.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   B.   Description of stored chemicals;
   C.   Procedures for immediately notifying the director of public works of
any accidental or slug discharge, as required by section
8-2-8-4 of this chapter; and
   D.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-6-7: WASTEWATER SURVEY:
When requested by the director of public works, all industrial users must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of their wastewater by
completing a wastewater survey prior to commencing their discharge. The
director of public works is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and
may periodically require industrial users to update the survey. Failure to
complete this survey shall be reasonable grounds for terminating service to the
industrial user and shall be considered a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-6-8: WASTEWATER ANALYSIS:
When requested by the director of public works, a user must submit information
on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within ninety (90) days of
the request. The director of public works is authorized to prepare a form for
this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS:
8-2-7-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the POTW
without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the director of
public works, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a timely
application pursuant to section
8-2-7-2 of this chapter may continue to discharge for the time period specified
therein.
   B.   The director of public works may require other users to obtain
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   C.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in this chapter. Obtaining a
wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to
comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements or
with any other requirements of federal, state, and local law.
   D.   The director of public works shall have the authority to deny or
condition new or increased contributions of pollutants or changes in the nature
of pollutants to the POTW by industrial users where such contributions do not
meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements or where such
contributions would cause the city to violate its waste discharge requirements.
(Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-2: PERMITTING; EXISTING USERS:
Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was discharging
wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this chapter and who
wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within ninety (90)
days after said date, apply to the director of public works for a wastewater
discharge permit in accordance with this chapter, and shall not cause or allow
discharge to the POTW to continue after one hundred eighty (180) days of the
effective date of this chapter except in accordance with a wastewater discharge
permit issued by the director of public works. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-3: PERMITTING; NEW USERS:
Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to begin
or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the
beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater
discharge permit, in accordance with this chapter, must be filed at least
ninety (90) days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or
recommence. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-4: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CATEGORIES:
Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be issued under the following
categories as determined by the director of public works after review of the
permit application as described in section
8-2-7-5 of this chapter. The director of public works may determine, upon
review of the permit application, that no permit is required for certain small
industries and commercial users.
   A.   Significant industrial user (SIU) permits (category 1 dischargers). SIU
permits shall be issued to those industries which are determined by the
director of public works to be significant industrial users (SIUs) as defined
in section
8-2-1-4 of this chapter.
      1.   The director of public works may require other users to obtain an
SIU permit as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   B.   General industrial/commercial user permits (category 2 dischargers).
General industrial/commercial user permits shall be issued to certain small
industries and some commercial users whose individual discharges do not
significantly impact the POTW, degrade wastewater quality, or contaminate
sludge. Industries that have the potential to discharge a nondomestic or
process waste stream, but at the present time discharge only sanitary waste,
may also be included in this group. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-5: PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS:
All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit a permit
application. The director of public works may require all users to submit as
part of an application the following information:
   A.   All information required by section
8-2-8 of this chapter, if applicable;
   B.   Description of all activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
   C.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
   D.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and rate
of production;
   E.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
   F.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to
show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
   G.   Time and duration of discharges; and
   H.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the director of
public works to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the user for revision. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-6: APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION:
All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed by
an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
(Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-7: PERMIT DECISIONS:
The director of public works will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. Within sixty (60) days of receipt of a
complete wastewater discharge permit application, the director of public works
will determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The
director of public works may deny any application for a wastewater discharge
permit. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-8: PERMIT DURATION:
A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period, not
to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five (5) years, at the
discretion of the director of public works. Each wastewater discharge permit
will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-
2014)
8-2-7-9: PERMIT CONTENTS:
A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the director of public works to prevent pass-through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   A.   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      1.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five (5) years;
      2.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
in accordance with section
8-2-7-12 of this chapter;
      3.   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards in
federal, state, and local law;
      4.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
      5.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state, or local law;
      6.   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
director of public works to be necessary.
   B.   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      2.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      3.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or other special conditions including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine discharges;
      4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      7.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit;
      8.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the director of public
works to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws,
rules, and regulations;
      9.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily, and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
      10.   Calibration frequency requirements for all devices used to measure
wastewater flow and quality;
      11.   The compliance schedules that are required for the permittee's
facilities;
      12.   The analyses of the wastewater discharges from the permittee's
facilities that are to be established by the director of public works and are
to be performed, as a part of the permittee's compliance effort, by a
laboratory that is approved by the director of public works;
      13.   The requirements for maintaining, and for affording the director of
public works access to, the records of the permittee's facilities that relate
to its wastewater discharges;
      14.   The requirements for notification of the director of public works
of any introduction of new constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the existing constituents of the wastewater discharges from the
permittee's facilities;
      15.   The requirements for the notification of the director of public
works of slug, upset or bypass discharges from the permittee's facilities;
      16.   The requirement that an amended application must be filed within
ten (10) working days after any condition that is contained in the original
application is changed. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-10: PERMIT APPEALS:
The director of public works shall provide public notice of the issuance of a
wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user, may petition the
director of public works to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge
permit within sixty (60) days of notice of its issuance.
   A.   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   B.   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
   C.   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   D.   If the director of public works fails to act within ninety (90) days, a
request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to
reconsider a wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge
permit, or not to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered
final administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
   E.   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
Fresno County superior court within sixty (60) calendar days. (Ord. 2014-003,
7-22-2014)
8-2-7-11: PERMIT MODIFICATION:
The director of public works may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   A.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   B.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   C.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   D.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city's POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
   E.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   F.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   G.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
   H.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-12: PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE:
Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, a new or changed
operation, or remodel of an existing facility which is retained by the current
owner. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-13: PERMIT REVOCATION:
   A.   The director of public works may revoke a wastewater discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   Failure to notify the director of public works of significant
changes to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      2.   Failure to provide prior notification to the director of public
works of changed conditions pursuant to section
8-2-8-3 of this chapter;
      3.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
      4.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      5.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      6.   Refusing to allow the director of public works timely access to the
facility premises and records;
      7.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      8.   Failure to pay fines;
      9.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      10.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      11.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
      12.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      13.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   B.   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-7-14: PERMIT REISSUANCE:
A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for wastewater
discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in
accordance with section
8-2-7-5 of this chapter, a minimum of sixty (60) days prior to the expiration
of the user's existing wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
8-2-8-1: INDUSTRIAL USERS SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Baseline Monitoring Reports: Within one hundred eighty (180) days after
the effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard, or one hundred
eighty (180) days after the final administrative decision made upon a category
determination submission under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
industrial users subject to such categorical pretreatment standards and
currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall be
required to submit to the director of public works a report which contains the
information listed in subsections A1 through A7 of this section. If reports
containing this information already have been submitted to the RWQCB or the
regional administrator in compliance with the requirement of 40 CFR 128.140(b)
(1977), the industrial user shall not be required to submit this information
again. However, the industrial user shall provide the director of public works
with a copy of such report along with written verification from the RWQCB that
such report items have been received by the RWQCB. At least ninety (90) days
prior to commencement of discharge, new sources and sources that become
industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall be required to submit to the city a report which contains the
information listed in subsections A1 through A5 of this section. New sources
shall also be required to include in this report information on the method of
pretreatment the source intends to use to meet applicable pretreatment
standards. New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in
subsections A4 and A5 of this section.
      1.   Identifying Information: The user shall submit the name and address
of the facility including the name of the operator and owners;
      2.   Permits: The user shall submit a list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
      3.   Description Of Operations: The user shall submit a brief description
of the nature, average rate of production, and standard industrial
classification of the operation(s) carried out by such industrial user. This
description should include a schematic process diagram which indicates points
of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes;
      4.   Flow Measurement: The user shall submit information showing the
measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW
from each of the following:
         a.   Regulated process streams; and
         b.   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula of 40 CFR 403.6(e). (See subsection A5 of this section.) The
director of public works may allow for verifiable estimates of these flows
where justified by cost or feasibility considerations.
      5.   Measurement Of Pollutants:
         a.   The user shall identify the pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process.
         b.   In addition, the user shall submit the results of sampling and
analysis identifying the nature and concentration (or mass, where required by
the standard or director of public works) of regulated pollutants in the
discharge from each regulated process. Both daily maximum and average
concentration (or mass, where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations.
         c.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile the data necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection
A5.
         d.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities, if such exist, or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula of
40 CFR 403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with the
supporting data shall be submitted to the director of public works.
         e.   The director of public works may allow the submission of a
baseline report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data
provides information sufficient to determine the need for industrial
pretreatment measures.
         f.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place, of
sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      6.   Certification: The user shall submit a statement, reviewed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user and certified to by a
qualified professional, indicating whether pretreatment standards are being met
on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the industrial
user to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      7.   Compliance Schedule: If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the user shall submit the shortest
schedule by which the industrial user will provide such additional pretreatment
and/or O&M. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard.
         a.   Where the industrial user's categorical pretreatment standard has
been modified by a removal allowance (40 CFR 403.7), the combined waste stream
formula (40 CFR 403.6(e)), and/or a fundamentally different factors variance
(40 CFR 403.13) at the time the user submits the report required by subsection
B of this section, the information required by subsection A6 of this section
and this subsection A7 shall pertain to the modified limits.
         b.   If the categorical pretreatment standards are modified by a
removal allowance (40 CFR 403.7), the combined waste stream formula (40 CFR
403.6(e)), and/or a fundamentally different factors variance (40 CFR 403.13)
after the user submits the report required by this subsection A, any necessary
amendment to the information requested by subsection A6 of this section and
this subsection A7 shall be submitted by the user to the director of public
works within sixty (60) days after the modified limit is approved.
      8.   Signatures And Certification Required: All baseline monitoring
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with section
8-2-7-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Compliance Schedule For Meeting Categorical Pretreatment Standards: The
following conditions apply to the compliance schedule required by subsection A7
of this section:
      1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not
limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction, and beginning and conducting routine operation, etc.).
      2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months.
      3.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a
progress report to the director of public works including, at a minimum,
whether or not it complied with the increment of progress to be met on such
date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of
progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the industrial
user to return the construction to the schedule established. In no event shall
more than nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the director
of public works.
   C.   Report On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline:
      1.   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
industrial user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit
to the director of public works a report containing the information described
in subsections A4 through A6 of this section.
      2.   For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the city in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long
term production rate.
      3.   For all other industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period.
      4.   All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance
with section
8-2-7-6 of this chapter.
   D.   Periodic Reports On Continued Compliance:
      1.   Any industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard,
after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a
new source, after commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to
the director of public works during the months of June and December of each
year, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the
director of public works or the approval authority, a report indicating the
nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by
such categorical pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include
a record of measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period for the discharge reported in subsection A4 of this section
except that the director of public works may require more detailed reporting of
flows. At the discretion of the director of public works and in consideration
of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc.,
the director of public works may agree to alter the months during which above
reports are to be submitted.
      2.   Where the director of public works has imposed mass limitations on
industrial users as provided for by 40 CFR 403.6(d), the report required by
subsection D1 of this section shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated
by pretreatment standards in the discharge from the industrial user.
      3.   For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the city in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(c), the report
required by subsection D1 of this section shall contain a reasonable measure of
the user's long term production rate. For all other industrial users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed only in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), the
report required by subsection D1 of this section shall include the user's
actual average production rate for the reporting period.
      4.   All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance
with section
8-2-7-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-2: SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS NOT SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS:
The director of public works shall require appropriate reporting from those
significant industrial users with discharges that are not subject to
categorical pretreatment standards. Significant noncategorical industrial users
shall submit to the director of public works at least once every six (6) months
(on dates specified by the director of public works) a description of the
nature, concentration, and flow of the pollutants required to be reported by
the director of public works. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-3: CHANGED CONDITIONS:
Each user must notify the director of public works of any planned significant
changes to the user's operations or system which might alter the structure or
the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least ninety (90) days
before the change.
   A.   The director of public works may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under
section
8-2-7-5 of this chapter.
   B.   The director of public works may issue a wastewater discharge permit
under section
8-2-7-7 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
section
8-2-7-11 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated
changed conditions.
   C.   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of twenty percent (20%) or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-4: POTENTIAL PROBLEMS INCLUDING SLUG DISCHARGES:
   A.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch
discharge, or a slug load that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the
user shall immediately telephone and notify the director of public works of the
incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the user.
   B.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the director of public works, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred
as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Failure to notify the director of public works of potential problem
discharges shall be deemed a separate violation of this chapter.
   D.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection A of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-5: UNPERMITTED USERS:
All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the director of public works as the director of public
works may require. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING:
If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
director of public works within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the director of public works within thirty
(30) days after becoming aware of the violation. Where the director of public
works has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the industrial user,
the director of public works must perform the repeat sampling and analysis
unless it notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to perform
the repeat analysis. Resampling is not required if:
   A.   The director of public works monitors at the user's facility at least
once a month; or
   B.   The director of public works samples between the time when the initial
sampling was conducted and the time when the user or the director of public
works receives the results of this sampling. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-7: NOTIFICATION OF DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTES:
   A.   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA regional waste management division director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR part 261 or California code of regulations title 22, chapter 11, section
66261.1 et seq. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than
ten (10) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user:
      1.   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
      2.   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in
the waste stream discharged during that calendar month; and
      3.   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste stream
expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
All notifications must take place no later than ten (10) days after the
discharge commences. Any notification under this subsection need be submitted
only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of
changed conditions must be submitted under section
8-2-8-3 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of section
8-2-8-1 of this chapter.
   B.   All notifications must take place no later than ten (10) days after the
discharge commences. Any notification under this subsection needs to be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under section
8-2-8-3 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of section
8-2-8-1 of this chapter.
   C.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the director of
public works, the EPA regional waste management waste division director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within
thirty (30) days of the effective date of such regulations.
   D.   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically
practical.
   E.   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-8: COMPLIANCE SCHEDULES:
Any industrial user not in compliance with this chapter or any discharge
limitations shall abide by the provisions of a compliance schedule developed by
the director of public works.
The director of public works may require: a) the development of a compliance
schedule by each industrial user for the installation of technology required to
meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements; and b) the submission
of all notices and self- monitoring reports from industrial users as are
necessary to assess and assure compliance by industrial users with pretreatment
standards and requirements, including, but not limited to, the reports required
in section
8-2-8-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-9: TIMING:
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked.
For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility
serviced by the United States postal service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-10: SIGNATURES AND CERTIFICATION:
All reports shall be signed and certified as described in section
8-2-7-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-11: RECORDKEEPING:
Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain, and
make available for inspection and copying, all records of information obtained
pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
(3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user and the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the director of public
works. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-8-12: MONITORING AND ANALYSIS TO DEMONSTRATE CONTINUED COMPLIANCE:
   A.   The reports required by this chapter shall contain the results of
sampling. This sampling and analysis may be performed by the director of public
works in lieu of the industrial user. Where the director of public works
performs the required sampling and analysis in lieu of the industrial user, the
user will not be required to submit the compliance certification required under
section
8-2-7-6 of this chapter. In addition, where the director of public works itself
collects all the information required for the report, including flow data, the
industrial user will not be required to submit the report.
   B.   The reports required by this chapter must be based upon data obtained
through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period covered
by the report, which data are representative of conditions occurring during the
reporting period. The director of public works shall require that frequency of
monitoring necessary to assess and assure compliance by industrial users with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. Grab samples must be used
for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic
compounds. For all other pollutants, twenty four (24) hour composite samples
must be obtained through flow proportional composite sampling techniques,
unless time proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by
the director of public works. Where time proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the director of public works, the samples must
be representative of the discharge and the decision to allow the alternative
sampling must be documented in the industrial user file for that facility or
facilities. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in
40 CFR part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected
during a twenty four (24) hour period may be composited prior to the analysis
as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be
composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and
grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for
other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in
approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the director of public works,
as appropriate.
   C.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and ninety (90)
day compliance reports required in subsection 8-2-8-1A of this chapter (40 CFR
403.12(b) and (d)), a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH,
cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds
for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities
for which historical sampling data are available, the director of public works
may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by subsection 8-2-8-1D
and section
8-2-8-2 of this chapter (40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the director of
public works shall require the number of grab samples necessary to assess and
assure compliance by industrial users with applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements.
   D.   All analyses shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
described in 40 CFR 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 CFR 136 does not
contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or
where the regional administrator determines that the 40 CFR 136 sampling and
analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling
and analysis shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any
other applicable sampling and analytical procedures suggested by the POTW or
other persons, approved by the regional administrator.
   E.   If the industrial user monitors any regulated pollutant at the
appropriate sampling location more frequently than required by the director of
public works, using the procedures prescribed in this section, the results of
this monitoring shall be included in the report. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-9: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
8-2-9-1: RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
The director of public works shall have the right to enter the premises of any
user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this
chapter and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the director of public works ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
   A.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the director of public works will be permitted to
enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   B.   The director of public works shall have the right to set up on the
user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   C.   The director of public works may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy, according to the frequency
required in the user's permit.
   D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the director of public works and shall not
be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   E.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the director of public works access to
the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   F.   The aforesaid officers and their authorized agents shall have the right
of entry during usual business hours and at any time when, upon reasonable
cause, they believe there is an immediate hazard to life, health, or property,
to inspect any and all buildings and premises in the performance of their
duties. The aforesaid officers and their authorized agents shall have the right
to take independent samples of any discharge from any industrial user to
determine compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-9-2: SEARCH WARRANTS:
If the director of public works has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with this
chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the director of public
works may seek issuance of a search warrant from the Fresno County superior
court. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-10: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Confidential information is information and data on a user obtained from
reports, surveys, wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater
discharge permits, and monitoring programs, and from the director of public
works' inspection and sampling activities, and shall be available to the public
without restriction, unless the user specifically requests, and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the director of public works, that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes, or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law.
Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information
or data. When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other
"effluent data" as defined by 40 CFR 2.302 will not be recognized as
confidential information and will be available to the public without
restriction. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-11: PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The director of public works shall publish annually, in the largest daily
newspaper published in the municipality where the POTW is located, a list of
the users which, during the previous twelve (12) months, were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term
"significant noncompliance" shall mean:
   A.   "Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits", defined herein as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all of the wastewater
measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month
period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined by section
8-2-1-4 of this chapter;
   B.   "Technical review criteria (TRC) violations", defined herein as those
in which thirty three percent (33%) or more of all of the wastewater
measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month
period equal or exceed the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined by section
8-2-1-4 of this chapter multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other discharge violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
as defined by section
8-2-1-4 of this chapter (daily maximum, long term average, instantaneous limit,
or narrative standard) that the POTW determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   D.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the director of public
works' exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s) which the director of public works determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-12: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
8-2-12-1: NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION:
When the director of public works finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
director of public works may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within ten (10) days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation
of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention
thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user
to the director of public works. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the
user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the
notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
director of public works to take any action, including emergency actions or any
other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation. (Ord.
2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-12-2: CONSENT ORDERS:
The director of public works may enter into consent orders, assurances of
voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with
any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific
action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and
effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to sections
8-2-12-4 and
8-2-12-5 of this chapter and shall be judicially enforceable. (Ord. 2014-003,
7-22-2014)
8-2-12-3: SHOW CAUSE HEARING:
The director of public works may order a user which has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to
appear before the director of public works and show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action,
the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be
served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall
not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-12-4: COMPLIANCE ORDERS:
When the director of public works finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
director of public works may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-12-5: CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS:
When the director of public works finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or
that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the director of public
works may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such
violations and directing the user to:
   A.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   B.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-
22-2014)
8-2-12-6: ADMINISTRATIVE FINES:
   A.   When the director of public works finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the director of public works may fine such user in an amount not
to exceed:
      1.   Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per day for failing or refusing to
furnish technical or monitoring reports;
      2.   Three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per day for failing or refusing
to timely comply with any compliance schedule established by the city;
      3.   Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per day for discharges in
violation of any wastes discharge limitation, permit condition, or requirement
issued, reissued or adopted by the city; and
      4.   Ten dollars ($10.00) per gallon for discharges in violation of any
suspension, cease and desist order or other orders, or prohibition issued,
reissued, or adopted by the city.
   B.   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after sixty (60) calendar
days, be assessed an additional penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the
unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of one percent
(1%) per month. A lien against the user's property will be sought for unpaid
charges, fines, and penalties.
   C.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the director of public works to reconsider the fine along with full payment of
the fine amount within thirty (30) days of being notified of the fine. Where a
request has merit, the director of public works may convene a hearing on the
matter. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together
with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The director
of public works may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement
actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   D.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-
22-2014)
8-2-12-7: APPEALS:
Any person affected by any decision, action, or determination by the director
of public works, interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter,
including, without limitations, the provisions of this chapter, or any
industrial wastewater discharge permit issued hereunder by the director of
public works, excepting therefrom any decision, action, or determination of the
director of public works to pursue either criminal penalties or civil judicial
enforcement, may file with the city clerk, within ten (10) days of the date of
service of such decision, action or determination, a notice of appeal to the
city council appealing such decision, action or determination by the director
of public works. The notice of appeal shall set forth in detail all facts
supporting the industrial user's appeal of the decision of the director of
public works. The filing of the notice of appeal shall stay all further action
required under any notice of violation or cease and desist orders and
accumulation of interest upon penalties thereon, pending final decision by the
city council on the appeal; provided, however, that nothing stated herein shall
limit the authority of the director of public works to take such action or to
make such directives as the director of public works deems necessary to stop or
prevent an ongoing or threatened violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, including actions or directives to prevent or stop threatened damage
to the POTW, pass-through, or threatened harm to the health or safety of the
public. Such action shall include, without limitation, continuing to physically
block the industrial user's access to the sewer until the appeal is heard and
decided by the city council. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-12-8: EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS:
The director of public works may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
director of public works may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
   A.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the director of
public works may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The director of
public works may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the director of public works that the
period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in
section
8-2-12-9 of this chapter are initiated against the user.
   B.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the director of public works prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under sections
8-2-12-3 and
8-2-12-9 of this chapter.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any emergency suspension under this section. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-12-9: TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE:
In addition to the provisions in section
8-2-7-13 of this chapter, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
   A.   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   B.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   C.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
   D.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
   E.   Violation of the pretreatment standards in sections
8-2-5-1,
8-2-5-2, and
8-2-5-3 of this chapter.
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under section
8-2-12-3 of this chapter why a proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of
this option by the director of public works shall not be a bar to, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-
22-2014)
8-2-13: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
8-2-13-1: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
When the director of public works finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
director of public works may petition the Fresno County superior court through
the city's attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the user. The director of public works may also seek
such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-13-2: CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a maximum
civil penalty of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per violation, per
day. In the case of a monthly or other long term average discharge limit,
penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
   B.   The director of public works may recover reasonable attorney fees,
court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the city.
   C.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by
the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   D.   Remedies under this section are in addition to and do not supersede or
limit any and all other remedies, civil or criminal, but no liability shall be
recoverable under this section of any violation for which liability is
recovered under administrative actions/remedies. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-13-3: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
   A.   A user who wilfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by fine and/or imprisonment as provided by the Penal
Code regarding misdemeanors.
   B.   A user who wilfully or negligently introduces any substances into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage or which causes the city's
POTW to violate any effluent limitation or condition in a permit issued to the
POTW, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable by
fine and/or imprisonment as provided by the Penal Code regarding misdemeanors.
This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal
injury or property damage available under state law.
   C.   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable by fine and/or imprisonment
as provided by the Penal Code regarding misdemeanors.
   D.   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punishable by fine
and/or imprisonment as provided by the Penal Code regarding misdemeanors. (Ord.
2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-13-4: REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The director of
public works may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city's enforcement response plan. However, the director of
public works may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the director of public works is empowered to take more than
one enforcement action against any noncompliant user. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-
2014)
8-2-14: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
8-2-14-1: UPSET:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   B.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of subsection C of this section, are met.
   C.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      3.   The user has submitted the following information to the director of
public works within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset. If
this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within five (5) days:
         a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   F.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-
2014)
8-2-14-2: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in subsection 8-2-5-
1A of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in subsection 8-2-5-1B of this
chapter, with the exception of subsection B1, B2, or B8, if it can prove that
it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass-through or
interference and that either:
   A.   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-through or
interference; or
   B.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its WDR/NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-14-3: BYPASS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
    BYPASS: The definition provided in section
8-2-1-4 of this chapter.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic
loss caused by delays in production.
   B.   Allowable Bypass: A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not
cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it
also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses
are not subject to the provisions of subsections C and D of this section.
   C.   Notice Requirements:
      1.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit
prior notice to the director of public works, at least ten (10) days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
      2.   A user shall submit oral notice to the director of public works of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
twenty four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The director of public works may waive the
written report on a case by case basis if the oral report has been received
within twenty four (24) hours.
   D.   Prohibited Bypass:
      1.   Bypass is prohibited, and the director of public works may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The user submitted notices as required under subsection C of this
section.
      2.   The director of public works may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the director of public works
determines that it will meet the three (3) conditions listed in subsection D1
of this section. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-15: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
8-2-15-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
In addition to any other remedy provided by law or in equity, including
revocation of permits or permanent disconnection, violation of any provisions
of this chapter or order issued hereunder, an industrial wastewater discharge
permit, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement of the city, the
continued operation of any facility in violation of this chapter is hereby
determined and declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated and enjoined
pursuant to state law. The city may cause proceedings to be brought for the
abatement and may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with such action. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-15-2: PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES:
The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and
operating the city's pretreatment program which may include:
   A.   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost of
processing such applications;
   B.   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   C.   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   D.   Fees for filing appeals; and
   E.   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this
chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties chargeable
by the city. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
8-2-15-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect immediately following its
passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-
2014)
8-2-15-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
chapter is held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court
or tribunal of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this chapter, or any
part thereof. (Ord. 2014-003, 7-22-2014)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Sewer Connection
8-3-2: Permit Required; Fee
8-3-3: Plan Required
8-3-4: Separate Connections
8-3-5: Industrial Wastes
8-3-6: Unlawful Construction
8-3-7: Territory Excepted
8-3-8: Special Assessment Districts
8-3-9: Use Of Plant Capacity Buy-In Fees And Main Sewer Construction Fees
8-3-10: Opening Manholes
8-3-11: Failure To Pay Sewerage Charges
8-3-1: SEWER CONNECTION:
No property shall be connected to any public sewer of the city unless the owner
thereof has paid a sewer connection fee. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Any person wishing to connect to the city sanitary sewer system and
construct a building sewer from a house, commercial or industrial plant, to a
main sewer or existing building sewer within a public right of way or public
easement, shall obtain from the building inspection division, a permit to do so
and pay connection fees which the city council may establish by ordinance,
resolution or minute order. Any person performing said construction or any
portion thereof within the public right of way or easement shall, in addition,
first obtain from the public works director a permit to do so in accordance
with the provisions of title 7, chapter 5 of this code.
   B.   Upon completion of the work, notice thereof shall be given to the
building inspection division and the public works department and the trench
shall remain unfilled until inspection shall have been made by the building
and/or public works inspector. If connection is to be made to a main sewer, the
person constructing the building sewer may make connection with said main
sewer, but such connection shall be made in the presence of and under the
supervision of the public works director, and the person to whom the permit for
connection has been granted, as provided in this section, shall give the public
works director at least twenty four (24) hours' notice that said connection is
to be made.
   C.   Fees established in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall provide the following:
      1.   Plant Capacity Buy-In: A fee representing the prorata share for any
premises to be served by the city wastewater treatment plant facility of
construction cost for said facility and the cost for expansion of said facility
to provide for new connections to the system. The time of collection of said
fee shall be established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Main Sewer Construction: A fee representing the prorata share of
cost of construction of a main sewer for any premises proposing to connect to a
main sewer which has been installed by the city or a main sewer constructed by
a person which is to serve properties in addition to the property of the person
constructing said main sewer. Reimbursement of any person for said main sewer
construction shall be by agreement with the city council, said reimbursement to
be made from fees collected from other premises connecting to said main sewer
and providing that such agreement terminate within twenty (20) years of the
date thereof. The amount of the reimbursement to any person so constructing
main sewer and facilities shall be based on actual cost of construction
verified to the satisfaction of the public works director. Main sewer
construction fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of any permit for
development, redevelopment or construction on the premises. (Ord. 659, 4-6-
1982)
8-3-3: PLAN REQUIRED:
No group of houses or buildings shall be connected to a main sewer in any
public right of way or easement without first having the plan of the sewer of
these houses or buildings approved by the building inspector. Size of the
proposed sewer serving the houses or buildings shall be not less than four
inches (4") in diameter and a manhole may be required at its junction with the
existing main sewer. A lamphole shall be constructed at the upper end of the
new main sewer required by the city.
Main sewers constructed by any person shall be in conformance with plans and
specifications approved by the public works director and shall be in accordance
with the standard plans and specifications of the city. No main sewer or any
portion thereof or appurtenances thereto shall be accepted for maintenance by
the city unless and until such time as the work of construction has been
completed in accordance with said approved plans and specifications, the
construction inspected and approved by the public works director and the
maintenance thereof accepted by the city. Building sewers between the building
drains and the main sewer shall not be considered appurtenances to or part of
the main sewer and the responsibility for maintenance of said building sewer
shall be that of the owner or person in charge of the premises served by said
building sewer. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-3-4: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS:
Every house and building must be separately and independently connected with
the main sewer in the street, alley, right of way or easement; provided,
however, that where there exists a dwelling on the rear of a lot in front of
which is another dwelling belonging to the same owner, separate sewer
connections need not be made with the main sewer. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-3-5: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
No person shall throw or cause to be deposited in any vessel or receptacle
connected with a public sewer any garbage, animal hair, ashes, waste gasoline,
distillant, lubricating oils, grease, any byproduct of petroleum, fruit,
vegetables, peelings, bones, or kitchen refuse of any kind, rags, cinders, or
any other matter or thing whatsoever except fecal matter, urine, necessary
closet paper, liquid soaps and slop; provided, however, that industries may, on
application to the public works director, secure a permit to discharge
industrial wastes in conformity with the provisions of chapter 2 of this title
relating to industrial wastes. Nothing contained herein shall limit the
installation and operation and discharge into the sewer system of materials
being processed through a sink disposal system before discharging into the
sewer lines. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-3-6: UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, other than employees or
agents of the city, to construct any building sewer between the main sewer and
the public right of way line or public easement line of the city except as
provided in this chapter and any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-3-7: TERRITORY EXCEPTED:
The sewer connection fees as set forth in this chapter shall not apply to those
parcels within any sewer assessment district which has acquired and paid over
to the city the cost of capacity in the city wastewater treatment plant and
main sewers. Any connection made by any parcel within such district in addition
to those shown on the plans and specifications for said district shall be
subject to connection fees. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-3-8: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICTS:
The special assessment made in any district hereinafter created for the
construction of sanitary sewer lines and auxiliary facilities for connection
thereof to the city sewer and wastewater treatment plant shall include a plant
capacity buy-in fee for capacity in and use of the city's wastewater treatment
plant facilities and a main sewer construction fee for capacity in and use of
the city's main sewers. The amount of such acquisition cost shall be fixed by
resolution in the special assessment proceedings and shall be the cost of the
capacity for the district determined in relation to the total sewage treatment
capacity of the city facilities and the total conveyance capacity of the main
sewer affected; provided, however, that in no event shall the cost of plant
capacity buy-in exceed the estimated plant capacity buy in fee as provided in
section
8-3-2 of this chapter. Said plant capacity buy in cost and main sewer
construction cost shall be paid to city and shall be assessed against the
parcels of land within said district in accordance with the statute under which
said special assessment proceedings are conducted. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-3-9: USE OF PLANT CAPACITY BUY-IN FEES AND MAIN SEWER CONSTRUCTION FEES:
   A.   Plant capacity buy-in fees shall be used only for reconstruction and
enlargement of the city wastewater treatment facility or to pay principal and
interest on any bonds issued or to be issued or to repay federal or state loans
or advances made for the construction or reconstruction of such treatment
plant. Fees received for plant capacity buy-in shall be deposited in a reserve
account of the city for said uses.
   B.   Fees collected for connection to main sewers constructed by persons
required to construct said main sewer to serve properties in addition to those
properties developed by said person, shall be set aside in a sewer main
construction trust fund to provide for reimbursement to said person. Said
reimbursements shall be made on an annual basis and shall be only to the extent
that fees are received from others connecting to said main sewer. Fees received
for main sewers constructed by the city shall be deposited in a reserve account
for the city for wastewater treatment facility replacement and expansion and
main sewer replacement and construction. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-3-10: OPENING MANHOLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person other than a bona fide employee of the city
in line of duty to open or enter or cause to be opened or entered any manhole
in any public sewer to dispose of garbage or other deleterious substances, or
storm or surface waters, or for any other purpose whatsoever. (Ord. 659, 4-6-
1982)
8-3-11: FAILURE TO PAY SEWERAGE CHARGES:
   A.   In the event that the water user on premises connected to the sewerage
system shall fail to pay any charge herein provided by the fifteenth of the
month following presentation of a bill by the city therefor, a penalty for late
payment in an amount established by resolution by the city council shall be
added to such bill, and the city clerk shall have no authority to accept any
such later payment thereafter without first collecting the penalty therefor.
   B.   In the event that the water user on premises connected to the city
sewerage system shall fail to pay any charge or rental herein provided by the
fifteenth of the second month following presentation of the bill for such
charge or rental to the water user, the city may, in addition to any other
remedies it may have, discontinue furnishing sewer service and shall not resume
the same until all delinquent charges and rental hereunder, together with any
service charge necessitated by the resumption of sewer service, have been fully
paid.
   C.   In addition or in the alternative, and at the option of the city, the
city may file a civil action for the collection of any amounts due and unpaid.
This remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to the remedy or means of
enforcing payment of the sums required to be paid by the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER CHARGES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Sewer Service Charges
8-4-3: Payment Of Charges
8-4-4: Delinquent Charges
8-4-5: Sewer Fund
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases are defined
and shall be construed as hereinafter set out unless it shall be apparent from
the context that they have a different meaning:
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the interface of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the main sewer or
other place of disposal.
CHARGE: The rental or other charges established by this title for service and
facilities furnished by the city to any premises in connection with the
operation of its sewerage facilities.
CITY: The city of Reedley.
CONSTRUCTION: As it relates to public sewerage facilities, shall mean the
preliminary and design engineering, construction and construction engineering
for wastewater treatment facilities or main sewers.
DWELLING UNIT: A suite of one or more rooms which is designated for occupancy
by a family doing its own cooking, but not including hotels, motels or auto
courts.
FAMILY: One or more persons living together.
MAIN SEWER: All sewer and appurtenances thereto in the city located and
constructed in and along the streets, alleys, easements and public rights of
way exclusive of any portion of the building sewer within said public right of
way or easement. For purposes of this title, main sewer may also be referred to
as public sewer.
PERMIT FOR DEVELOPMENT, REDEVELOPMENT OR CONSTRUCTION: The issuance of a
building permit, approval of a planned unit development, conditional use permit
or approval of a parcel map or final map.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, business, association,
institution or public agency. The singular shall include the plural.
PREMISES: Means and includes each and every unit of real property or portion
thereof, both inside and outside the corporate limits of the city, which is
directly or indirectly connected to any portion of the sanitary sewer
facilities of the city or which is within the sewer service area of the city.
(Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-4-2: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES:
All premises connected to the city sewerage facilities and receiving sewerage
services shall pay a sewer service charge. The city council may establish sewer
service charge rates by ordinance, resolution or minute order.
Charges for sewerage services and sewerage facilities furnished to premises
situated outside the corporate limits of the city shall be negotiated between
the applicant for such service and the city and except as to existing
contracts, the charges so arrived at shall be the same as those levied on
properties within the corporate limits of the city for the same or similar uses
and discharging wastewaters of similar strengths or constituent loadings. In
addition to such charges, any costs for treatment of waste of special toxic
characteristics or which may be liable to cause plant upset or require
additional treatment or which creates hydraulic loads resulting in additional
costs of operation and maintenance over and above that normally incurred for
the wastewater treatment plant or collection facilities or any costs for
conveyance of sewage from said premises which results in additional costs of
operation and maintenance to the city allocatable to said premises, shall be
charged to said premises.
Charges shall include costs of treatment and conveyance including replacement
costs, bond or load repayment costs and operation and maintenance costs. (Ord.
659, 4-6-1982)
8-4-3: PAYMENT OF CHARGES:
All charges for said sewer service shall be paid by and shall be the obligation
of the person who is responsible for the payment of water charges and shall be
paid at the same time as water charges are paid and may be billed on the same
bill sent to water consumers. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
8-4-4: DELINQUENT CHARGES:
The charges made by this chapter, if not paid by the sixth day of the month,
shall become delinquent.
In the event that the charges made by this chapter become delinquent, water
service may be discontinued by the city and such water service shall not be
resumed until all delinquent charges, together with any service charges
necessitated by resumption of water service, have been fully paid. (Ord. 659,
4-6-1982; amd. 2007 Code; Ord. 2019-009, 12-10-2019)
8-4-5: SEWER FUND:
All monies received pursuant to any provision of this chapter shall be
deposited by the city clerk in a fund known as the sewer fund, and shall be
used solely for the replacement, maintenance and operation of the city sewerage
facilities and to repay principal and interest on bonds issued or which may
hereafter be issued for such purpose. (Ord. 659, 4-6-1982)
CHAPTER 5
URBAN STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Title
8-5-2: Purpose And Intent
8-5-3: Definitions
8-5-4: Authority For Administration And Enforcement
8-5-5: Construction And Application
8-5-6: Ultimate Responsibility Of Discharger
8-5-7: Prohibition Of Nonstormwater Discharge To The Public Storm Drain System;
Exemptions
8-5-8: Operating Facilities Or Activities
8-5-9: Construction Sites
8-5-10: Regulated Projects
8-5-10-1: Minimum Performance Requirements
8-5-10-2: Alternative Compliance
8-5-10-3: Postconstruction
8-5-11: Cleanup And Notification Requirements
8-5-12: Inspections
8-5-13: Enforcement And Penalties
8-5-14: Conflict With Other Laws
8-5-15: Penalties
8-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the URBAN STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF REEDLEY. (Ord. 2008-07, 11-12-2008)
8-5-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to ensure the health, safety, and
general welfare of citizens, and to protect and enhance the quality of the
city's watercourses, water bodies, and wetlands pursuant to and consistent with
all applicable state and federal laws related to stormwater management,
including, but not limited to, the clean water act (33 USC 1251 et seq.), the
national pollution discharge elimination system regulations (40 CFR 122 et
seq.) and the city's stormwater discharge permit for small municipal storm
sewer systems (MS4). (Ord. 2008-07, 11-12-2008)
8-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall be
defined as follows:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants to stormwater. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, drainage from outdoor areas, and
activities required to control the discharge from construction sites disturbing
one acre of land or more (in 1 or more phases of construction).
CALIFORNIA STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD (SWRCB): The state agency
charged with administration of the national pollution discharge elimination
system (NPDES).
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act, as amended, 33 USC
1251 et seq.
DISCHARGE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
ejecting, placing, releasing, leaching, dumping or disposing into or on any
land in a manner that may cause pollution.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The federal agency charged with
enforcement of environmental laws and regulations.
MANAGER: The public works manager or his/her designee.
NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES): Stormwater discharge
permit for small municipal storm sewer systems (MS4) permit issued by the
California state water resources control board which authorizes the discharge
of stormwater pursuant to the clean water act (33 USC 1342).
NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI): A form submitted to the regional water quality control
board notifying the agency of a person's intent to be covered under a separate
regional water quality control board construction permit for the control of
construction site runoff on projects that disturb one acre of land or more, in
one or more phases of construction.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
limited liability company, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
government entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns.
POLLUTANT: Shall have the same meaning as defined in 40 CFR 122.2, and shall
include, but not be limited to, any solid, liquid, gas, or other substance that
can alter the physical or chemical properties of water including, but not
limited to, fertilizers, solvents, sludge, petroleum or petroleum products,
solid waste, garbage, biological materials, radioactive materials, sand, dirt,
animal waste, acids, and bases.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel, real estate, or land or portion of land,
whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking
strips.
PUBLIC STORM DRAIN SYSTEM: All or any part of the publicly owned and maintained
roads, streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, storm
drains and dry wells located within public easements, rights of way, parks,
common areas, retention areas, or other publicly owned or maintained real
property designed or used for collecting, holding, or conveying stormwater.
REGIONAL WATER QUALITY CONTROL BOARD (RWQCB): The state division of the SWRCB
charged with enforcement of the water quality laws and regulations in the state
of California.
STORMWATER: Stormwater runoff, surface runoff and drainage. (Ord. 2008-07, 11-
12-2008)
8-5-4: AUTHORITY FOR ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The director of public works or his designee shall have the authority to
exercise the powers and perform the duties set forth in this chapter and to
administer and enforce provisions of this chapter. The director of public works
may designate other employees to exercise such powers and perform such duties,
as he/she deems appropriate. (Ord. 2008-07, 11-12-2008)
8-5-5: CONSTRUCTION AND APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be construed to assure consistency with requirements of the
federal clean water act and its implemented regulations for stormwater
management, and to comply with the California state water resources control
board's stormwater discharge permit for small MS4s, and shall be applicable to
all stormwater generated on any developed or undeveloped urban lands lying
within the city of Reedley or conveyed by the public storm drain system. (Ord.
2008-07, 11-12-2008)
8-5-6: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY OF DISCHARGER:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants into waters of the United
States caused by said person. This chapter shall not create liability on the
part of the city of Reedley, or any agent or employee thereof, for any damages,
claims, or liabilities that result from any dischargers, reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2008-07,
11-12-2008)
8-5-7: PROHIBITION OF NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE TO THE PUBLIC STORM DRAIN SYSTEM;
EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Discharge Of Substances: Unless expressly authorized or exempted by
this chapter, no person shall cause or allow the discharge to a public right of
way or public storm drain system of any substance that is not composed entirely
of stormwater.
   B.   Disposing Of Materials: Unless expressly authorized or exempted by this
chapter, no person shall use, store, spill, dump, or dispose of materials in a
manner that those materials could cause or contribute to the addition of
pollutants to stormwater.
   C.   Exemptions: The following discharges are exempt from the prohibitions
set forth in subsections A and B of this section:
      1.   Discharges authorized by a separate NPDES or RWQCB permit.
      2.   The following categories of nonstormwater discharges are permissible
unless otherwise prohibited under subsection C3, C4, or C5 of this section:
         a.   Water line flushing,
         b.   Landscaping irrigation,
         c.   Diverted stream flows,
         d.   Rising ground waters,
         e.   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration as defined in 40 CFR
35.2005(b)(20),
         f.   Uncontaminated pumped ground water,
         g.   Discharges from potable water sources,
         h.   Foundation drains,
         i.   Air conditioning condensation,
         j.   Irrigation water,
         k.   Springs,
         l.   Water from crawl space pumps,
         m.   Footing drains,
         n.   Lawn watering,
         o.   Individual residential car washing,
         p.   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
         q.   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges,
         r.   Discharges from emergency firefighting activity, or
         s.   Any other activity that the director identifies is not a
significant contributor of pollutants during the city of Reedley's NPDES
stormwater discharge permit for small MS4s' permit term.
      3.   No person shall discharge to public storm drain system any exempted
discharge under this subsection if the public works manager or assigned
designee identifies and provides written notice to the person that the
discharge has the potential to be a source of pollutants to receiving waters,
waterways, or ground water.
      4.   No person shall discharge to the public storm drain system anything
that would result in or contribute to a violation of the city's NPDES
stormwater discharge permit for small MS4s. Liability for any such discharge
shall be the responsibility of the person causing or responsible for the
discharge.
      5.   No person shall establish, use, maintain, or continue any connection
to the public storm drain system which has caused or is likely to cause a
violation of this section. This prohibition is retroactive and shall apply to
any connection that was made in the past, regardless of whether it was made
under permit or other authorization, or whether it was permissible under the
law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of the connection. (Ord.
2008-07, 11-12-2008)
8-5-8: OPERATING FACILITIES OR ACTIVITIES:
   A.   All persons owning or operating premises or engaged in activities who
are required by federal or state law to submit to EPA and/or RWQCB a notice of
intent (NOI) to comply with an NPDES or RWQCB stormwater discharge permit shall
provide a copy of such notice to the public works manager upon request.
Facilities required to apply for a stormwater discharge permit are identified
in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
   B.   All persons engaged in activities which will or may reasonably be
expected to result in pollutants entering the public storm drain system shall
undertake best management practices (BMPs) to minimize such pollutants, shall
provide protection from accidental discharge of pollutants to the public storm
drain system and comply with cleanup and notification requirements of this
chapter. Such measures shall include the requirements imposed by federal,
state, county, or local authorities. BMPs are site specific and are described
in the documents "Storm Water Best Management Practice Handbook: Construction";
"Storm Water Best Management Practice Handbook: New Development And
Redevelopment"; "Storm Water Best Management Practice Handbook: Industrial And
Commercial"; "Storm Water Best Management Practice Handbook: Municipal"; or
other guidance documents available from EPA and/or RWQCB.
   C.   If best management practice is required by the public works manager or
city engineer to prevent a pollutant from entering the public storm drain
system, the person receiving the notice of such a requirement may petition the
city council of the city of Reedley to reconsider the application of the BMPs
to the premises or activity. The written petition must be received by the city
clerk within ten (10) working days of the notice issued by the public works
manager or city engineer. The petition shall set forth any reasons as to why
application of BMPs to the premises or activity should not be required and any
proposed alternatives to such requirement. The city council will act within
thirty (30) calendar days of the filing of the petition. (Ord. 2008-07, 11-12-
2008)
8-5-9: CONSTRUCTION SITES:
   A.   All persons engaged in construction activities who are required by
federal or state law to submit to EPA and/or RWQCB a notice of intent to comply
with an NPDES stormwater permit, shall provide the city with copies of the NOI
and the NPDES stormwater permit issued by the RWQCB. Construction activities
that will disturb one acre or more of land area or smaller land areas, if they
are part of a larger common plan of development or sale, are required to apply
for a stormwater discharge permit (40 CFR 122.26(b)(15)).
   B.   Any person performing construction shall not cause or contribute to a
violation of the RWQCB stormwater discharge permit issued by the RWQCB to the
city of Reedley. Liability for any such discharge shall be the responsibility
of the person causing or responsible for the discharge. Any person performing
construction shall undertake best management practices to minimize pollutants
(including sediments) from leaving the construction site, provide protection
from accidental discharge of pollutants to the public storm drain system, and
comply with the cleanup and notification requirements of this chapter. Site
operator shall ensure erosion and sediment control and control of waste and
properly dispose of waste, such as discarded building materials, concrete truck
washout, chemicals, litter, and sanitary waste at the construction site that
may cause adverse impacts to water quality. Such measures shall include the
requirements imposed by federal, state, county, or local authorities. BMPs are
site specific and are described in the documents "Storm Water Best Management
Practice Handbook: Construction"; "Storm Water Best Management Practice
Handbook: New Development And Redevelopment"; "Storm Water Best Management
Practice Handbook: Industrial And Commercial"; "Storm Water Best Management
Practice Handbook: Municipal"; or other guidance documents available from EPA
and/or RWQCB.
   C.   If best management practice is required by the public works manager or
city engineer to prevent a pollutant from entering the public storm drain
system, the person receiving the notice of such a requirement may petition the
city council of the city of Reedley to reconsider the application of the BMPs
to the premises or activity. The written petition must be received within ten
(10) working days at the issuance of the notice by the public works manager or
city engineer and shall set forth any reasons as to why application of BMPs to
the premises or activity should not be required and any proposed alternatives
to such a requirement. The city council will act within thirty (30) calendar
days of the filing of the petition. (Ord. 2008-07, 11-12-2008)
8-5-10: REGULATED PROJECTS:
Regulated projects include all new development or redevelopment projects that
create and/or replace more than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet
of impervious surface (collectively over the entire project site) and lie
within the stormwater service area that drains to the Kings River.
   A.   Additional regulated projects include, but are not limited to, the
following road projects/practices:
      1.   Removing and replacing a paved surface resulting in alteration of
the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity or overall footprint of the
road.
      2.   Extending the pavement edge, or paving graveled shoulders.
      3.   Resurfacing by upgrading from dirt to asphalt, or concrete;
upgrading from gravel to asphalt, or concrete; or upgrading from a bituminous
surface treatment ("chip seal") to asphalt or concrete.
   B.   Regulated projects do not include:
      1.   The following road and parking lot maintenance:
         a.   Road surface repair including slurry sealing, fog sealing, and
pothole and square cut patching.
         b.   Overlaying existing asphalt or concrete pavement with asphalt or
concrete without expanding the area of coverage.
         c.   Shoulder grading.
         d.   Cleaning, repairing, maintaining, reshaping, or regarding
drainage systems.
         e.   Crack sealing.
         f.   Resurfacing with in-kind material without expanding the road or
parking lot.
         g.   Practices to maintain original line and grade, hydraulic
capacity, and overall footprint of the road or parking lot.
         h.   Repair or reconstruction of the road because of slope failures,
natural disasters, acts of God or other manmade disaster.
      2.   Sidewalk and bicycle path or lane projects, where no other
impervious surfaces are created or replaced.
      3.   Trails and pathways, where no other impervious surfaces are replaced
or created.
      4.   Underground utility projects that replace the ground surface with
in-kind material or materials with similar runoff characteristics.
      5.   Curb and gutter improvement or replacement projects that are not
part of any additional creation or replacement of impervious surface area
(e.g., sidewalks, roadway).
      6.   Second story additions that do not increase the building footprint.
      7.   Raised (not built directly on the ground) decks, stairs, or walkways
designed with spaces to allow for water drainage.
      8.   Photovoltaic systems installed on/over existing roof or other
impervious surfaces and panels located over pervious surfaces with well
maintained grass or vegetated ground cover or panel arrays with a buffer strip
at the most down gradient row of panels.
      9.   Temporary structures (in place for less than 6 months).
      10.   Electrical and utility vaults, sewer and water lift stations,
backflows and other utility devices.
      11.   Aboveground fuel storage tanks and fuel farms with spill
containment system. (Ord. 2015-008, 10-13-2015)
8-5-10-1: MINIMUM PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Performance Requirement No. 1: Site Design And Runoff Reduction:
      1.   Projects that create and/or replace more than two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet of impervious surface (collectively over the entire
project site), including detached single-family home projects and are located
within the city stormwater service area that drain to the Kings River or other
U.S. body of water, must comply with the following runoff reduction practices:
         a.   Limit disturbance of creeks and natural drainage features.
         b.   Minimize compaction of highly permeable soils.
         c.   Limit clearing and grading of native vegetation at the site to
the minimum area needed to build the project.
         d.   Minimize disturbance to impervious surfaces.
         e.   Minimize stormwater runoff by implementing one or more of the
following site design measures:
            (1)   Direct roof runoff into cisterns or rain barrels for reuse.
            (2)   Direct roof runoff onto vegetated areas safely away from
building foundations and footings, consistent with California building code.
            (3)   Direct runoff from sidewalks, walkways and/or patios onto
vegetated areas safely away from building foundations and footings, consistent
with California building code.
            (4)   Direct runoff from driveways and/or uncovered parking lots
onto vegetated areas safely away from building foundations and footings,
consistent with California building code.
      2.   The city will confirm that projects comply with site design and
runoff reduction performance requirements by means of appropriate documentation
(e.g., checklists) accompanying applications for project approval.
   B.   Performance Requirement No. 2: Water Quality Treatment:
      1.   Sampling and analysis for sediment/silt or turbidity are required
when the runoff from a construction site discharges directly into the Kings
River or other U.S. body of water (not through the city storm drain system).
Sampling is not required if all stormwater runoff is contained on site and
allowed to infiltrate or evaporate.
      2.   Stormwater sampling shall be performed per the "Cal Trans Storm
Water Quality Sampling Guidance Manual".
   C.   Performance Requirement No. 3: Runoff Retention: All projects, except
detached single-family homes, that create and/or replace more than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet of impervious surface (collectively over the
entire project site), and detached single-family homes more than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet of net impervious area, and are located in the
city stormwater service area that drains to the Kings River or other U.S. body
of water are required to meet the runoff retention performance standards using
low impact development principles and practices, subject to approval by the
city.
   D.   Performance Requirements No. 4: Peak Management: The city will require
all projects that create and/or replace more than twenty two thousand five
hundred (22,500) square feet of impervious surface (collectively over the
entire project site), and are located within the city stormwater service area
that drains to the Kings River or other U.S. body of water, to manage peak
stormwater runoff and to meet water quality treatment and runoff retention
performance standards as set forth in this section.
   E.   Performance Requirement No. 5: Special Circumstances: Projects with a
scope of work that have certain site and/or receiving water conditions may be
defined as a special circumstances project. The special circumstances
designation exempts a project from runoff retention and/or peak management
performance standards where those performance standards would be ineffective to
maintain or restore beneficial uses of receiving waters. (Ord. 2015-008, 10-13-
2015)
8-5-10-2: ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE:
Alternative compliance refers to water quality treatment, runoff retention and
peak management performance requirements that are achieved off site through
mechanisms such as developer fee in lieu arrangements and/or use of regional
facilities. Alternative compliance may be allowed under circumstances of
technical infeasibility, or equivalent circumstances and must be approved by
the city. (Ord. 2015-008, 10-13-2015)
8-5-10-3: POSTCONSTRUCTION:
The primary objective of postconstruction stormwater management requirements is
to ensure the reduction of pollutant discharges to the maximum extent
practicable and preventing stormwater discharges from causing or contributing
to a violation of receiving water quality standards in all applicable
development projects that require approvals and/or permits issued by the city.
Property owners or operators shall ensure long term operation and maintenance
of postconstruction stormwater runoff control mechanisms including privately
owned retention basins. (Ord. 2015-008, 10-13-2015)
8-5-11: CLEANUP AND NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   As soon as any owner or operator has actual or constructive knowledge
of any discharge which may result in pollutants entering the public storm drain
system, such person shall promptly take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery of the source and the extent and proceed with containment and cleanup
of such discharge.
   B.   The owner or operator shall notify the public works director or the
city engineer of the discharge in both of the following manners:
      1.   By telephone as soon as practical or by calling
9-1-1, if hazardous materials are involved; and
      2.   By written report identifying the discharge source, extent,
pollutant, measures taken to mitigate the discharge, and preventative measures
put into place to prevent a subsequent discharge. (Ord. 2015-008, 10-13-2015)
8-5-12: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority To Inspect: Upon presentation of credentials and at all
reasonable or necessary hours, all authorized employees of the city of Reedley
shall have access to all premises and to all records pertaining to those
premises for purposes of ensuring compliance with this chapter. Inspection,
interviewing, copying, sampling, photographing, and other activities conducted
on the premises shall be limited to those which are reasonably needed by the
city in determining compliance with the requirements of this chapter. All
persons shall allow such activities under safe and nonhazardous conditions with
a minimum of delay.
   B.   Monitoring Activities: The public works director, city engineer, or
either of their authorized designees, may order any person engaged in any
activity or owning or operating on any premises which may cause or contribute
to discharges of pollutants to the public storm drain system in violation of
this chapter or any applicable NPDES or RWQCB stormwater permit condition to
undertake such monitoring activities and analyses and furnish such reports as
the public works director, city engineer, or authorized designee may specify.
The costs of such activities, analyses, and reports shall be borne by the
recipient of the order.
   C.   Access Refusal: If an authorized employee of the city of Reedley has
been refused access to any premises, and is able to demonstrate probable cause
to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a
need to inspect, interview, copy, photograph, or sample as part of an
inspection and sampling procedure of the city designed to determine compliance
with the requirements of this chapter or any related laws or regulations
designed to protect the environment and the public health, safety and welfare
of the community, then the public works director, city engineer, or authorized
designee may seek issuance of a search or inspection warrant from a judge or
judicial officer of the Fresno County superior court. (Ord. 2015-008, 10-13-
2015)
8-5-13: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: Charges levied pursuant to this chapter shall be collected
by the department of public works. The public works manager or city engineer
shall make and enforce economic and efficient management and protection of the
city's storm drain system.
   B.   Owner Of Record: The owner of record of the property upon which a
violation of this chapter occurs shall be presumed to be a person having lawful
control over the activity or premises unless it is demonstrated that another
person has knowingly and in good faith accepted responsibility for the activity
at issue. If more than one person is identified as the owner, such persons
shall be presumed to be jointly and severally in lawful possession and control
of the activity or premises.
   C.   Notice Of Violation: The public works manager or city engineer may
issue a written notice of violation to any person who has violated or is in
violation of this chapter. Failure to comply with any act required in the
notice of violation shall be a separate violation for each day beyond the
thirtieth day following the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall
limit the authority of the public works manager or city engineer to take any
action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a notice of violation. In appropriate situations, the public
works manager or city engineer may notify the person orally either in person or
by telephone prior to, and, in some cases, in lieu of, written notification.
   D.   Consent Orders: The public works manager or city engineer may enter
into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, negotiated settlement
agreements or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any person
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the person(s) to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document, including an identification and description of the
best management practices and measures to utilize in implementing the order.
Such documents shall have the same force and effect as any other orders issued
under this chapter and shall be judicially enforceable.
   E.   Cease And Desist Orders: When the public works manager or city engineer
finds that a person has violated, or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter or any related laws or regulations, or that the person's past
violations are likely to recur, the public works manager or city engineer may
issue an order to the person directing them to cease and desist all such
violations and direct the person to immediately comply with all requirements;
and take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation. Issuance of a cease and
desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the person. A person's failure to comply with an order of
the public works manager or city engineer issued pursuant to this chapter shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   F.   Civil Penalties: In addition to any other enforcement authority
contained in this chapter, the public works manager or city engineer shall
issue a civil citation to any person who has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter or any related laws or regulations. A person who
violates any requirement of this chapter or any applicable NPDES or RWQCB
stormwater discharge permit condition shall be civilly liable to the city of
Reedley for a sum not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day per
violation.
   G.   Criminal Penalties: A person who wilfully or negligently violates any
provision of this chapter, or any related laws or regulations shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) per day
per violation and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months.
   H.   Criminal Prosecution: Some intentional violations may constitute
criminal violations of federal, state and local laws, and that under such
circumstances, the public works manager or city engineer may seek the
assistance of the EPA, city attorney, state or county prosecutor to commence
civil and/or criminal action against any person who violates any requirement of
this chapter or any applicable NPDES or RWQCB stormwater discharge permit
condition.
   I.   Revoking Or Withholding Of Permit: In addition to or in lieu of all
other available penalties, the city of Reedley may revoke or withhold any
permit, approval or license to construct improvements to real property or
operate a business in the city of Reedley if the holder of such permit,
approval, or license is in violation of any requirement of this chapter or any
applicable NPDES or RWQCB stormwater discharge permit condition.
   J.   Liability For Costs: The public works manager or city engineer may
assess liability for costs to any person found in violation of this chapter for
all actual costs incurred by the city of Reedley in surveillance, sampling and
testing, abatement, and remediation associated with a discharge that is in
violation of this chapter. Additionally, the public works manager or city
engineer may assess liability for costs to any person whose discharge resulted
in a violation of the city's stormwater discharge permit. (Ord. 2008-07, 11-12-
2008)
8-5-14: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
In the event of any conflict between this chapter and any federal or state law,
regulation, permit, or other ordinance of the city of Reedley, the requirements
which establishes the stricter standard shall govern. To the extent permitted
by law, nothing in this chapter shall preclude enforcement of any other
applicable law. (Ord. 2008-07, 11-12-2008)
8-5-15: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine or by imprisonment, or both, such fine and imprisonment as specified
herein. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense
punishable as herein described. (Ord. 2008-07, 11-12-2008)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
9-1-2: Amendments
9-1-3: Permit Fees
9-1-4: Licensed Contractors
9-1-5: Small Residential Rooftop Solar Energy System Review Process
9-1-6: Underground Services Alert
9-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
Pursuant to the provisions of Government Code section 50022.2, the city council
does hereby adopt by specific reference thereto and incorporation herein by
said reference, the provisions, rules and regulations specified and set forth
in the following codes, subject to the amendments, if any, set forth in section
9-1-2 of this chapter:
                                     California Administrative Code, 2022
Administrative code                  edition, including appendices thereto, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission;
                                     California Building Code, 2022 edition,
Building code                        including appendices as follows, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission:
                                    Appendix C: Group U - agricultural
                                     buildings
                                    Appendix F: Rodent proofing
                                    Appendix G: Flood-resistant construction
                                    Appendix H: Signs
                                    Appendix I: Patio covers
                                    Appendix J: Grading
                                    Appendix K: Flood protection plan;
                                     California Residential Building Code part
California residential building code 2.5, 2022 edition, including appendices
                                     as follows, as published by the
                                     California Building Standards Commission:
                                    Appendix G: Swimming pools
                                    Appendix H: Patio covers
                                    Delete section 1.8.8 Appeals Board;
                                     California Electrical Code, 2022 edition,
Electrical code                      including appendices thereto, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission:
                                    Delete section 89.108.8 Appeals Board;
                                     Uniform Mechanical Code, 2022 edition,
Mechanical code                      including appendices as follows, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission:
                                    Appendix B: Procedures to be followed to
                                     place equipment into operation
                                    Appendix C: Installation and testing of
                                     oil (liquid) fuel-fired equipment
                                    Delete section 1.8.8 Appeals Board
                                     Appendix F: Sizing of venting systems
                                     serving appliances equipped with draft
                                    hoods, category 1 appliances, and
                                     appliances listed for use with type B
                                     vents;
                                     California Plumbing Code, 2022 edition,
Plumbing code                        including appendices as follows, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission:
                                    Appendix A: Recommended rules of sizing
                                     the water supply system
                                    Appendix B: Explanatory notes on
                                     combination waste and vent systems
                                    Appendix D: Sizing storm water drainage
                                     systems
                                    Appendix H: Private sewage systems
                                    Appendix I: Installation standards
                                    Delete section 1.8.8 Appeals Board;
                                     California Energy Code, 2022 edition,
Energy code                          excluding appendices thereto, as
                                     published by the California Energy
                                     Standards Commission;
                                     California Historical Building Code, 2022
Historical building code             edition, including appendices thereto, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission;
                                     California Fire Code, 2022 edition,
Fire code                            including appendices thereto, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission;
                                     California Existing Building Code, 2022
Existing building code               edition, including appendices thereto, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission;
                                     California Green Building Standards Code,
Green building standards code        2022 edition, including appendices
                                     thereto, as published by the California
                                     Building Standards Commission;
                                     California Reference Standards Code, 2022
Reference standards code             edition, including appendices thereto, as
                                     published by the California Building
                                     Standards Commission;
                                     Uniform Housing Code, 1997 edition, as
Housing code                         published by the International Conference
                                     Of Building Officials;
                                     Uniform Code for the Abatement of
Abatement of dangerous buildings     Dangerous Buildings, 1997 edition, as
                                     published by the International Conference
                                     Of Building Officials.
 
The above codes are hereby adopted by the City Council as the building codes of
the City, for all intents and purposes and to the same effect as if each and
every section, paragraph, subparagraph, word, phrase or clause contained
therein were fully set forth herein. If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this chapter is, for any reason, held to be
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter. The City Council hereby declares it would have
adopted each section, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared unconstitutional. One copy of each of said codes hereby adopted are on
file in the office of the building official and is available for examination by
the public. (Ord. 2013-005, 12-10-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-006, 12-13-2022)
9-1-2: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Building Code:
      1.   Valuation: The establishment of building valuation estimates are
intended to comply with the definition of "valuation" in section 223 of the
California building code. Therefore, the determination shall be based on
valuation as computed by the International Conference Of Building Officials and
as published bimonthly in the building standards. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-25-2005)
      2.   Plan Checking Fee: A plan checking fee of fifty percent (50%) of the
original plan checking fee shall be levied where the building plan is in total
area and design substantially the same as a plan approved within one year from
the date of issuance of the original building permits for a building located on
property with similar soil and terrain characteristics.
      3.   Moving Permit: Any person desiring to move any building or structure
from one lot or parcel to another lot or parcel within the city limits or from
some lot or parcel outside the city limits to a lot or parcel inside the city
limits or to move a building out of the city, shall file a moving application
with the building department and such application shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The location and address of the old and proposed new site.
         b.   A plot plan of the new site indicating all dimensions and
required setbacks.
         c.   Plans and specifications giving the proposed improvements and
remodeling of such building or structure at the new site. Plans shall contain
drawings and specifications to show that the building will fit in harmoniously
as to type, character, size and value with other buildings at the proposed
site. If placing the building at the proposed relocation site will
substantially diminish the value of other property in the vicinity or will not
fit aesthetically, the moving permit shall be denied.
         d.   The owner shall post a surety bond or other security with the
city clerk in an amount fixed by the building official equal to the estimated
value of all alterations, additions, repairs or corrections to make the
building comply with all city laws. Such bond shall be automatically renewable
until such time as the bonding company is notified in writing by the building
official that all required corrections, alterations, additions, repairs
guaranteed by said bond have been completed. Such bond shall also cover clean
up of the site the building is moved from, if it is within the city, as well as
damage to any city streets, sidewalks, curb, gutters or any other facilities
owned by the city caused by moving of the building or related construction.
The provisions of subsections A3a, A3b and A3c of this section shall not apply
when the building is being moved out of the city.
Upon the filing of such application the applicant shall be charged a fee in the
amount of seventy dollars ($70.00) to be paid to the building department to
cover the cost of moving inspection. Said fees may be adjusted from time to
time by resolution of the city council.
The applicant shall make the property available at such time as is requested by
the building official.
The applicant shall be prepared to remove any material or covering on the
building or structure to be moved as directed by the building official for the
purpose of making the moving inspection.
      4.   Payment Of Expense: The owner shall compensate the city for any
expense incurred in moving buildings which involves service of the police
department, or special building official at the current rates charged by the
city, with a minimum charge of two (2) hours' time.
      5.   Inspection Outside City Limits: If the building official is
requested by the property owner to inspect a building which is not located in
the city, the city shall assess a fee equal to costs incurred in such
inspection. No inspection service shall be provided on any building located
more than a thirty (30) mile radius from the city. (Ord. 757, 7-9-1991)
      6.   Automatic Sprinklers, Where Required.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, standard automatic
sprinkler systems shall be installed and maintained in all group A, B, E, F, I,
M, S, U, and H5 occupancies exceeding five thousand (5,000) square feet in
gross floor area. When such areas have any eaves or an overhang exceeding a
distance of three feet (3') from the wall or support, the gross roof area shall
include, but not be limited to, covered walkways, patios, porches or any
architectural feature attached to or within ten feet (10') of the structure. In
existing buildings where an automatic sprinkler system does not exist, and a
change in the character of occupancy or use is made, or the floor area is
increased, and the gross floor area exceeds the areas set forth in this
subsection before or after the addition or change, an approved automatic
sprinkler system shall be installed through the structure, unless a specific
development agreement is approved by the building official for the existing
areas.
Area separation walls, occupancy separation walls, or parapets shall not be
used to create separate buildings on the same property to exclude required
automatic sprinkler systems.
   7.   Appeals Board.
   The City shall establish a local appeals board and a housing appeals board.
The local appeals board and housing appeals board shall be the governing body
of the City. The board may appoint one or more hearing examiners to hear
appeals brought before the board. The hearing examiners shall not be employees
of the jurisdiction and shall be qualified and specifically knowledgeable in
the California Building Standards Codes and applicable local ordinances. The
hearing examiner or examiners shall submit a written report to the board. Such
report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state the
examiners findings, conclusions and recommendations.
   B.   Electrical Code:
      Appeals Board
   The City shall establish a local appeals board and a housing appeals board.
The local appeals board and housing appeals board shall be the governing body
of the City. The board may appoint one or more hearing examiners to hear
appeals brought before the board. The hearing examiners shall not be employees
of the jurisdiction and shall be qualified and specifically knowledgeable in
the California Building Standards Codes and applicable local ordinances. The
hearing examiner or examiners shall submit a written report to the board. Such
report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state the
examiners findings, conclusions and recommendations.
   C.   Fire Code:
      1.   Chapter 28 of the California fire code, known as the California code
of regulations, title 24, part 9 is hereby amended by adding thereto a new
section 2810 to read as follows:
      Section 2810
      Storage Of Combustible Idle Pallets
2810.1 General. Storage of combustible idle pallets shall be in accordance with
this section.
2810.2 Storage Location. Pallets shall be stored outside or in a separate
building designed for pallet storage unless stored indoors in accordance with
section 2810.3.
2810.3 Indoor Storage. Pallet storage in a building used for other storage or
other purposes shall be in accordance with the provisions for high-hazard
commodity high-piled combustible storage contained in chapter 32.
2810.4 Outdoor Storage. Pallets stored outside shall be stored in accordance
with table 2810.4.1 and table 2810.4.2 and sections 2810.5 and 2810.6.
2810.5 Outdoor Pile Dimensions. Pallet stacks shall not exceed 15 feet in
height nor shall cover an area greater than 500 square feet. Pallet stacks
shall be arranged to form stable piles. Piles shall be separated by a minimum
of 8 feet. Piles shall be a minimum of 10 feet from property lines.
2810.6 Outdoor Storage Yard. The outside storage yard shall be kept clean and
well maintained.
2810.7 Fire Department Access. Fire department access roadways, meeting the
requirements of the city of Reedley fire department, shall be maintained within
150 feet of all pallet storage and structures.
      Table 2810.4.1
      Required Clearance Between Outside
      Idle Pallet Storage And Other Yard Storage
 
Pile Size           Minimum Distance, In Feet
   Under 50 palle20
   50 - 200 palle30
   Over 200 palle50
 
      Table 2810.4.2
      Required Clearance Between
      Outside Idle Pallet Storage And Structures
 
Wall Construction           Minimum Distance Of Wall From Storage, In Feet
                            Under 50 Pallets 50 To 200 Pallets Over 200 Pallets
Masonry or concrete with no 0                0                 15
openings
Masonry or concrete with    10               20                30
protected openings
Wood, metal, other          20               30                50
 
(Ord. 2013-005, 12-10-2013)
   D.   Plumbing Code:
      1.   Permit Fees: The third sentence of section 103.3.1 of chapter 1,
"Administration", of the uniform plumbing code, shall read as follows:
If the building official finds that the work described in an application for
permit and the plans, specifications and other data filed therewith conform to
the requirements of the code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that
the fees specified in the latest fee schedule adopted by the city council, and
at the rate provided for each classification shown therein have been paid, the
building official shall issue a permit therefor to the applicant.
      2.   Subsection 103.4.1, subsection 103.4.2 and table 1-1 of the uniform
plumbing code are hereby deleted.
   E.   Mechanical Code:
      1.   Section 115.1 of chapter 1, "Administration" of the uniform
mechanical code shall read as follows:
Permit Fees: Mechanical permit fees may be established and modified from time
to time by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Subsection 115.1, subsection 115.2 and table 1-1 of the uniform
mechanical code are deleted. (Ord. 2003-03, 4-22-2003)
   F.   Housing Code: No amendments.
   G.   Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings Code: No amendments. (Ord. 99-12, 11-
23-1999)
   H.   Swimming Pool Code:
      1.   Requirements: Every person in possession of land within the city,
either as owner, purchaser under contract, lessee, tenant or licensee upon
which is situated a swimming pool, shall at all times maintain on the lot or
premises upon which such pool is located and completely surrounding such pool,
lot or premises, a fence or other solid structure not less than six feet (6')
in height with no opening therein (other than doors and gates) larger than six
inches (6") square. All gates or door openings through such enclosure shall be
equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device designed to keep, and
capable of keeping, such door or gate securely closed at all times when not in
actual use; provided, however, the door of any dwelling occupied by human
beings and forming any part of the enclosure required by this subsection need
not be so equipped.
All plans submitted to the city for swimming pools to be constructed shall show
compliance with the requirements of the uniform swimming pool, spa and hot tub
code, and final inspection and approval of all pools constructed shall be
withheld until all requirements of said code have been complied with.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to public swimming pools for
which a charge or admission price is required to be paid for such use thereof
nor to swimming pools which are a part of, and located on the same premises of
a hotel or motel during the time the owner, operator or adult employee of such
owner or operator is present at, and in active charge of, the premises upon
which such pool is located. (Ord. 757, 7-9-1991)
      2.   Schedule Of Fees: Section 110 of part 1 of said uniform swimming
pool, spa and hot tub code is hereby deleted therefrom. Fees shall be
calculated using the latest adopted fee schedule for building, electrical,
mechanical and plumbing permits and plan checking services. (Ord. 99-12, 11-23-
1999)
   I.   Sign Code: This code is hereby amended to include the provisions of the
zoning regulations of the municipal code as said provisions pertain to signs in
title 10, chapter 14 of the city code, as if each and every section, paragraph,
subparagraph, word, phrase or clause contained therein were fully set forth
herein. (Ord. 676, 1-3-1984)
   J.   Solar Energy Code: Section 20-6 of part 1 is hereby deleted from the
uniform solar energy code. (Ord. 757, 7-9-1991)
   K.   Building Conservation Code: No amendments. (Ord. 97-15, 1-13-1998)
   L.   Administrative Code: No amendments. (Ord. 99-12, 11-23-1999)
   M.   Energy Code: No amendments. (Ord. 2005-07, 10-25-2005)
   N.   Water Conservation: This subsection is an element of the city's water
conservation program ("WCP") implementing the 2030 general plan update, policy
COSP3.10.10A. The following minimum standards for the installation of water
conserving plumbing fixtures and fittings is intended to meet or exceed a
twenty percent (20%) reduction in water consumption to ensure an adequate water
supply to accommodate the projected growth and development pattern:
      1.   Showerhead fixtures and fittings shall be designed and installed so
that they will not exceed a water supply flow rate of 1.75 gallons per minute.
      2.   Faucets at kitchens, lavatories, wet bars, laundry sinks, or other
similar use fixtures shall be water sense labeled and installed so that they
will not exceed a water supply flow rate of 1.5 gallons per minute.
      3.   Toilet fixtures and fittings shall have an average consumption that
does not exceed 1.1 gallons of water per flush.
      4.   New residential dwellings that are equipped with clothes washers
shall install washers that are energy star qualified.
      5.   The water pressure in any single-family home constructed under a
building permit issued after the effective date of this subsection shall not
exceed sixty (60) pounds per square inch (psi), and shall have no detectable
water leaks. Multi-family and midrise projects are exempt from the water
pressure testing criterion but shall have no detectable water leaks and are
subject to the requirements as stated in subsections N1, N2, N3 and N4 of this
section. (Ord. 2014-005, 9-23-2014; amd. Ord. 2022-006, 12-13-2022)
9-1-3: PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees may be established and modified from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 757, 7-9-1991)
9-1-4: LICENSED CONTRACTORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to carry on or engage in the
business of general contracting or specialty contracting in the city without
having a license therefor from the contractor's state license board, and a city
business license 1 . (Ord. 676, 1-3-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 2 of this code.
9-1-5: SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   The following words and phrases as used in this section are defined as
follows:
    ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL: The utilization of one or more of the following:
      1.   E-mail,
      2.   The internet,
      3.   Facsimile.
   SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: All of the following:
      1.   A solar energy system that is no larger than ten (10) kilowatts
alternating current nameplate rating or thirty (30) kilowatts thermal.
      2.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
city and paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of section 714 of the Civil Code, as
such section or subdivision may be amended, renumbered, or redesignated from
time to time.
      3.   A solar energy system that is installed on a single- or duplex-
family dwelling.
      4.   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum legal
building height as defined by the authority having jurisdiction.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: Has the same meaning set forth in paragraphs (1) and
(2) of subdivision (a) of section 801.5 of the Civil Code, as such section or
subdivision may be amended, renumbered, or redesignated from time to time.
   B.   Section 65850.5 of the California Government Code provides that, on or
before September 30, 2015, every city, county, or city and county shall adopt
an ordinance that creates an expedited, streamlined permitting process for
small residential rooftop solar energy systems.
   C.   Section 65850.5 of the California Government Code provides that in
developing an expedited permitting process, the city, county, or city and
county shall adopt a checklist of all requirements with which small rooftop
solar energy systems shall comply to be eligible for expedited review. The
building official is hereby authorized and directed to develop and adopt such
checklist.
   D.   The checklist shall be published on the city's internet website. The
applicant may submit the permit application and associated documentation to the
city's building division by personal, mailed, or electronic submittal together
with any required permit processing and inspection fees. In the case of
electronic submittal, the electronic signature of the applicant on all forms,
applications and other documentation may be used in lieu of a wet signature.
   E.   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant shall:
      1.   Verify to the applicant's reasonable satisfaction through the use of
standard engineering evaluation techniques that the support structure for the
small residential rooftop solar energy system is stable and adequate to
transfer all wind, seismic, and dead and live loads associated with the system
to the building foundation; and
      2.   At the applicant's cost, verify to the applicant's reasonable
satisfaction using standard electrical inspection techniques that the existing
electrical system including existing line, load, ground and bonding wiring as
well as main panel and subpanel sizes are adequately sized, based on the
existing electrical system's current use, to carry all new photovoltaic
electrical loads.
   F.   For a small residential rooftop solar energy system eligible for
expedited review, only one inspection shall be required, which shall be done in
a timely manner. If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails
inspection, a subsequent inspection is authorized; however the subsequent
inspection need not conform to the requirements of this subsection.
   G.   An application that satisfies the information requirements in the
checklist, as determined by the building official, shall be deemed complete.
Upon receipt of an incomplete application, the building official shall issue a
written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in the application and any
additional information required to be eligible for expedited permit issuance.
   H.   Upon confirmation by the building official of the application and
supporting documentation being complete and meeting the requirements of the
checklist, the building official shall administratively approve the application
and issue all required permits or authorizations. Such approval does not
authorize an applicant to connect the small residential rooftop energy system
to the local utility provider's electricity grid. The applicant is responsible
for obtaining such approval or permission from the local utility provider.
(Ord. 2015-004, 9-8-2015)
9-1-6: UNDERGROUND SERVICES ALERT:
At least two (2) working days before any planned excavation or construction,
the responsible party shall contact Underground Service Alert North (USA) by
calling 811. (Ord. 2015-004, 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 2
UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Public Hearing By City Council
9-2-3: Underground Utility Districts Designated
9-2-4: Unlawful Acts
9-2-5: Exception, Emergency Or Unusual Circumstances
9-2-6: Other Exceptions
9-2-7: Notice To Property Owners And Utility Companies
9-2-8: Responsibility Of Utility Companies
9-2-9: Responsibility Of Property Owners
9-2-10: Responsibility Of City
9-2-11: Extension Of Time
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the words or phrases defined in this section are used,
they shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the following
definitions:
COMMISSION: The public utilities commission of the state of California.
PERSON: Includes individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships and their
agents and employees.
POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES AND ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES: Supports, wires,
conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces, transformers,
insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits, appliances, attachments
and appurtenances located aboveground within a district and used or useful in
supplying electric, communication or similar or associated service.
UNDERGROUND UTILITY: That area in the city within which poles, overhead wires
and associated overhead structures are prohibited as such area is described in
a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of section
9-2-3 of this chapter.
UTILITY: All persons or entities supplying electric, communication or similar
or associated service by means of electrical materials or devices. (Ord. 638,
4-21-1981)
9-2-2: PUBLIC HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain
whether the public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires the removal of
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures within designated
areas of the city and the underground installation of wires and facilities for
supplying electric, communication or similar or associated service. The city
clerk shall notify all affected property owners as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll and utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of such
hearings at least ten (10) days prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing
shall be open to the public and may be continued from time to time. At each
such hearing all persons interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
The decision of the city council shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 638, 4-
21-1981)
9-2-3: UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS DESIGNATED:
If, after any such public hearing the city council finds that the public
necessity, health, safety or welfare requires such removal and such underground
installation within a designated area, the city council shall, by resolution,
declare such designated area an underground utility district and order such
removal and underground installation. Such resolution shall include a
description of the area comprising such district and shall fix the time within
which such removal and underground installation shall be accomplished and
within which affected property owners must be ready to receive underground
service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground
installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials and
equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of such
underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby. (Ord. 638, 4-21-1981)
9-2-4: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
Whenever the city council creates an underground utility district and orders
the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein
as provided in section
9-2-3 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to erect,
construct, place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles, overhead
wires and associated overhead structures in the district after the date when
said overhead facilities are required to be removed by such resolution, except
as said overhead facilities may be required to furnish service to an owner or
occupant or property prior to the performance by such owner or occupant of the
underground work necessary for such owner or occupant to continue to receive
utility service as provided in section
9-2-9 of this chapter, and for such reasonable time required to remove said
facilities after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 638, 4-21-1981)
9-2-5: EXCEPTION, EMERGENCY OR UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period, not to exceed ten (10) days, without
authority of the public works director in order to provide emergency service.
The public works director may grant special permission, on such terms as he may
deem appropriate, in cases of unusual circumstances, without discrimination as
to any person or utility, to erect, construct, install, maintain, use or
operate poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures. (Ord. 638, 4-
21-1981)
9-2-6: OTHER EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter and any resolution adopted pursuant to section
9-2-3 of this chapter shall, unless otherwise provided in such resolution, not
apply to the following types of facilities:
   A.   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the city engineer.
   B.   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting.
   C.   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited.
   D.   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of thirty four
thousand five hundred (34,500) volts.
   E.   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street.
   F.   Antennas, associated equipment and supporting structures used by a
utility for furnishing communication services.
   G.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts.
   H.   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used
or to be used in conjunction with construction projects for a period not to
exceed that approved by the public works director. (Ord. 638, 4-21-1981)
9-2-7: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES:
Within ten (10) days after the effective date of a resolution adopted pursuant
to section
9-2-3 of this chapter, the city clerk shall notify all affected utilities and
all persons owning real property within the district created by said resolution
of the adoption thereof. The city clerk shall further notify such affected
property owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such
property desire to continue to receive electric, communication or similar or
associated service, they or such occupant shall provide all necessary facility
changes on their premises so as to receive such service from the lines of the
supplying utilities at a new location, subject to applicable rules, regulations
and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the commission.
Notification by the city clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to section
9-2-3 of this chapter, together with a copy of this chapter, to affected
property owners as such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to
the affected utilities. (Ord. 638, 4-21-1981)
9-2-8: RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES:
If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to section
9-2-3 of this chapter, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the
conduits, conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it
under its applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the
commission. (Ord. 638, 4-21-1981)
9-2-9: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a
building or structure within a district shall perform construction and provide
that portion of the service connection on his property between the facilities
referred to in section
9-2-8 of this chapter and the termination facility on or within said building
or structure being served, all in accordance with the applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the
commission. If the above is not accomplished by any person within the time
provided for in the resolution enacted pursuant to section
9-2-3 of this chapter, the city engineer shall give notice in writing to the
person in possession of such premises, and a notice in writing to the owner
thereof as shown on the last equalized assessment roll, to provide the required
underground facilities within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice.
   B.   The notice to provide the required underground facilities may be given
either by personal service or by mail. In case of service by mail on either of
such persons, the notice must be deposited in the United States mail in a
sealed envelope with postage prepaid, addressed to the person in possession of
such premises at such premises, and the notice must be addressed to the owner
thereof as such owner's name appears, and must be addressed to such owner's
last known address as the same appears on the last equalized assessment roll,
and when no address appears, to general delivery of said city. If a notice is
given by mail, such notice shall be deemed to have been received by the person
to whom it has been sent within forty eight (48) hours after the mailing
thereof. If notice is given by mail to either the owner or occupant of such
premises, the city engineer shall, within forty eight (48) hours after the
mailing thereof, cause a copy thereof, printed on a card not less than eight
inches by ten inches (8" x 10") in size, to be posted in a conspicuous place on
said premises.
   C.   The notice given by the city engineer to provide the required
underground facilities shall particularly specify what work is required to be
done, and shall state that if said work is not completed within thirty (30)
days after receipt of such notice, the city engineer will provide such required
underground facilities, in which case the cost and expense thereof will be
assessed against the property benefitted and become a lien upon such property.
   D.   If, upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the said
required underground facilities have not been provided, the city engineer shall
forthwith proceed to do the work; provided, however, if such premises is
unoccupied and no electric or communications service is being furnished
thereto, the city engineer shall, in lieu of providing the required underground
facilities, have the authority to order the disconnection and removal of any
and all overhead service wires and associated facilities supplying utility
service to said property. Upon completion of the work by the city engineer, he
shall file a written report with the city council setting forth the fact that
the required underground facilities have been provided and cost thereof,
together with a legal description of the property against which such cost is to
be assessed. The city council shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing
protests against the assessment of the cost of such work upon such premises
which said time shall not be less than ten (10) days thereafter.
   E.   The city engineer shall forthwith, upon the time for hearing such
protests having been fixed, give a notice in writing to the person in
possession of such premises, and a notice in writing thereof to the owner
thereof, in the manner hereinabove provided for the giving of the notice to
provide the required underground facilities, of the time and place that the
city council will pass upon such report and will hear protests against such
assessment. Such notice shall also set forth the amount of the proposed
assessment.
   F.   Upon the date and hour set for the hearing of protest, the city council
shall hear and consider the report and all protests, if any there be, and then
proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment. (Ord. 638, 4-21-1981)
   G.   If any assessment is not paid within five (5) days after its
confirmation by the city council, the amount of the assessment shall become a
lien upon the property against which the assessment is made by the city
engineer, and he is directed to turn over to the assessor and tax collector a
notice of lien on each of said properties on which the assessment has not been
paid, and said assessor or tax collector shall add the amount of said
assessment to the next regular bill for taxes levied against the premises upon
which said assessment was not been paid. Said assessment shall be due and
payable at the same time as said property taxes are due and payable, and if not
paid when due and payable, shall bear interest at the current rate for
judgments in civil cases. (Ord. 638, 4-21-1981; amd. 2007 Code)
9-2-10: RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY:
The city shall remove at its own expense all city owned equipment from all
poles required to be removed hereunder in ample time to enable the owner or
user of such poles to remove the same within the times specified in the
resolution enacted pursuant to section
9-2-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 638, 4-21-1981)
9-2-11: EXTENSION OF TIME:
In the event that any act required by this chapter or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to section
9-2-3 of this chapter cannot be performed within the time provided on account
of shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience or any other circumstances beyond the control
of the actor, then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be
extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation. (Ord. 638, 4-
21-1981)
CHAPTER 3
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions And Construction
9-3-2: Numbering Required
9-3-3: Assignment And Placement Of Numbers
9-3-4: Tiering
9-3-5: Direction Of Numbering
9-3-6: Grid Systems
9-3-7: Street Name Conflict
9-3-8: Prohibited Acts
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION:
The definitions of words used in this chapter and the construction of words and
provisions thereof used herein shall be as set forth in section
10-2-3 of this code. In addition thereto, "buildings" shall include all types
of structures including commercial, residential, apartment and/or storage
facilities. (Ord. 377, 5-4-1965)
9-3-2: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: All entrances from public streets to buildings within the
hereinafter described area shall be numbered as in this chapter provided, and
the building official shall assign building numbers within the hereinafter
described area.
   B.   Size Of Numbers: Building numbers shall be legible, of durable
construction and not less than three inches (3") high.
   C.   Maps And Records:
      1.   The planning commission shall cause to be prepared maps for use in
recording and plotting numbers and, in general, depicting the numbering system.
      2.   The planning commission shall prepare a building number form upon
which assigned numbers shall be recorded, a copy of which shall be given to the
person requesting same.
      3.   All assigned numbers shall be placed on the numbering maps drawn to
scale by the building official. In addition, said official shall maintain a
file system of the numbers by some suitable method.
   D.   Date Of Removal And Placement Of New Numbers: After the effective date
hereof, the owner or occupants of the building shall, after being assigned a
new number, remove the old number, if any, and place the new number on the
structure. The removal and placement of a new number thereon shall be
accomplished within thirty (30) days after the assignment by the building
official or his agents. If the owner and/or occupant fail to do so when
required by the city building official, such person shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 377, 5-4-1965)
9-3-3: ASSIGNMENT AND PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS:
   A.   Buildings Located Back Of Property Line:
      1.   In all cases where the building is located on or back of the
property line of the street on which the same fronts, the numbers may be placed
or maintained either at the side of the main entrance, upon the porch or
piazza, at the side of the gateway of said property, or upon any steps or other
structure near and back of the property line thereof and shall be mounted in
such a manner that the same may be plainly seen from the street in front of
said property and in such a manner that the same will not be hidden from view
from the street by any trees, shrubs or other obstructions, but not to exceed
fifty feet (50') from the street.
      2.   Where two (2) or more houses are located on the same lot, the
official shall assign separate cardinal numbers to each house. No fractional
numbers shall be used.
   B.   Corner Lots: Buildings located on corner lots shall be assigned with
appropriate numbers on that street having the main entrance.
   C.   Apartment Houses: Each apartment unit shall be numbered separately. In
the event that separate cardinal numbers are not practical, letter
designations, excepting letters "I" and "O", shall be used.
   D.   Areas Designated: For the purpose of assigning numbers to the
buildings, the entire area is hereby divided into two (2) parts, namely, "A"
and "B".
      1.   Group A is hereby designated as that portion of the city which was a
part of the city at the date of incorporation, excepting and excluding
therefrom avenues: North, South, East and Reed. Buildings in area A shall be
assigned numbers in accordance with section
9-3-4 of this chapter.
      2.   Group B is hereby designated as: the balance of the city of Reedley;
North, East, South and Reed Avenues and the extension of those streets east,
west, north and south in the city and in the county of Fresno extending to, but
not including, the following metropolitan boundary streets:
Englehart, Floral, Lac Jac and Adams Avenues. (Ord. 377, 5-4-1965)
9-3-4: TIERING:
   A.   Definition: The term "tier" or "block tier" means all blocks between
two (2) parallel and adjacent streets in any direction. The blocks in said tier
shall be assigned the same number, for example, all blocks between F and G
Streets shall have the tier number 1600 and, transversely, all blocks between
10th and 11th Streets shall have the tier number 1000.
   B.   Units And Spacing: Except as otherwise provided, each unit of house
number shall represent a frontage or space of twelve and one-half feet (121/
2'), and each unit of block tiers shall represent one hundred (100) numbers.
The numbers shall progressively increase in successive tiers by one hundred
(100) numbers as for example 100, 200, 300, and so on.
   C.   Base Numbers: The tiers running parallel with each other shall control
the base number, to which all space numbers on included transverse streets
shall be added by adding one to the tier number and increasing the tier numbers
in the direction of increase.
   D.   Tier Locations: Reference is hereby made to blocks 56, 57, 72 and 73 of
the city, according to the map on file in the office of the county recorder of
the county. The units are blocks and tiers which run parallel to the Santa Fe
railroad and are located at the northwest corner of area A; city block 73 is
hereby numbered 600. Progressing in a southerly direction from said block in
area "A" to the limits of said area, the blocks shall be numbered in an
increasing manner.
   E.   Alternate Tiers: The tiers running transversely to those described in
subsection D of this section shall begin at blocks 3 and 4 of the city with
number 1100. Progressing in a southwesterly direction, the next tier shall be
numbered 1200. The number 1200 shall contain all blocks between B and C
Streets. Thence, southwesterly said numbers shall increase in successive tiers
to the southwest corner of area A. Likewise, all successive parallel tiers
running in a northeasterly direction from said blocks 3 and 4 shall decrease
one hundred (100) numbers for each tier of blocks. (Ord. 377, 5-4-1965)
9-3-5: DIRECTION OF NUMBERING:
The numbered spaces for buildings shall increase in the direction of increased
tiers. Proceeding along a street in this direction, the odd numbers shall be on
the right beginning with "1" added to the tier number, and the even numbers
shall be on the left added in like manner; for example the first space of
twelve and one-half feet (121/2') on the left of G Street from the corner of G
and 10th Streets going southeasterly on G Street, shall be numbered 1000 and so
on, and the like space on the right shall be numbered 1001 and so on. (Ord.
377, 5-4-1965)
9-3-6: GRID SYSTEMS:
   A.   Area B: Area B shall be numbered according to a grid system. The base
line of said system is hereby designated as follows:
      1.   Frankwood Avenue as the north-south axis; and
      2.   Springfield Avenue as the east-west base line.
As the city expands, the prolongation of said streets as base lines and the
alignment of other streets and/or numbers therewith shall be followed as far as
is practical.
   B.   Building Numbers:
      1.   Fifty (50) building numbers are hereby provided for each side of the
street in each block. Sixteen (16) blocks are hereby designated for each
section of a mile in length, whether said blocks exist or not. Beginning at the
intersection of the base, Frankwood and Springfield Avenues, numbers shall be
assigned at the rate of one hundred (100) numbers per block.
      2.   In order to conform this numbering system to the existing street
pattern, the building official may increase or decrease the length of said
blocks in order to accomplish the purposes of the grid system. Thus, the
frontage per number assigned may vary with each block.
   C.   Odd And Even Numbers: Even numbers shall be assigned to the buildings
located on the north and east sides of the streets in area B. Odd numbers shall
be assigned to buildings located on the south and west sides of the streets in
said area.
   D.   Street Orientation: Streets oriented north of the Springfield base line
shall have a prefix "north", while streets south of the said base line, shall
have a prefix "south". Streets oriented east of the Frankwood Avenue base line
shall have a prefix "east", while streets west of said base line shall have a
prefix "west".
   E.   Diagonal Streets: The numbering of diagonal streets shall be
progressive and shall be numbered as provided above, i.e., one hundred (100)
numbers per block. Depending on the degree of the diagonal, the frontage per
number may expand.
   F.   Curved Streets: The building official shall assign a number according
to this system as far as is practical and buildings on curved streets shall be
assigned the number for the grid system at that point and said numbers shall
progress according to the alignment of the streets. (Ord. 377, 5-4-1965)
9-3-7: STREET NAME CONFLICT:
The planning commission shall process all cases where street names on the same
alignment are different and recommend one name for said street to the city
council. After approval by the city council, such name shall be used and
applied. (Ord. 377, 5-4-1965)
9-3-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall wilfully remove or destroy or mutilate any correct number
placed on any building as required by this chapter without immediately
replacing it with another such number, and any person violating this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord 377, 5-4-1965)
CHAPTER 4
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose And Intent
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Reserved
9-4-4: Real Property Maintenance Standards And Unlawful Conditions
9-4-5: Standards For Vacant Real Property
9-4-6: Use Of Portable Self-Storage Containers
9-4-7: Inoperative, Wrecked, Dismantled Or Abandoned Vehicles
9-4-8: Responsibility For Property Maintenance
9-4-9: Abatement Procedures
9-4-10: Remedies Of Private Parties
9-4-11: Summary Abatement
9-4-12: Severability
9-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
In accordance with the provisions of California Government Code section
38773.5, it is the intent of the city council, by the adoption of this chapter,
to provide property maintenance standards, and to establish a procedure for
abatement in order to preserve livable and reasonably attractive neighborhoods
while effectively addressing and preventing hazards to the public health,
safety and welfare.
These provisions shall apply to every building or structure and its accessory
structures, as well as any and all adjoining grounds, areas or other premises
of property (developed or undeveloped) in the city. In all situations where a
provision of this chapter conflicts with other building, health, safety or
zoning regulations, the more restrictive standard shall prevail. (Ord. 2024-
003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALTERATION: Any change in size, shape, character, occupancy or use of a
building or structure.
APPROVED: Authorized as provided by law.
BLEMISH: A noticeable imperfection that impairs appearance.
BLIGHTING INFLUENCE: Any physical condition of building or property, which
directly or indirectly causes a reduction in the value of surrounding property.
BRUSH: Any dense growth or bushes, shrubs or weeds, or any accumulation of, but
not limited to: grass clippings, hedge and tree trimmings, palm fronds, leaves,
and other such similar debris.
DEFICIENCY: A condition of deterioration that is not in violation of this
chapter; however, such condition can be expected to become a violation within a
short period of time.
DETERIORATION: The condition or appearance of any structure or grounds, or
parts thereof, characterized by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, cracking,
peeling, rusting or other evidence of physical decay, neglect or lack of
maintenance.
DILAPIDATED: A condition of structural disrepair or deterioration to the extent
requiring rehabilitation, reconstruction or demolition.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, designed exclusively for residential
purposes, including one-family and multiple-family dwellings; including mobile
homes; but not including hotels, apartment hotels, boarding and rooming houses,
fraternity and sorority houses, rest homes, convalescent homes and nursing
homes or childcare nurseries.
ELECTRICAL: All work, materials and/or system of electrical wiring for use of
light, heat or power, and all appurtenances, apparatus or equipment used in
connection therewith, inside of or attached to any building or structure, lot
or premises.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any person authorized by the city manager to enforce any
violation of this code.
FIRE HAZARD: Any condition or any act which violates the applicable state or
city fire codes.
GARBAGE: The vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking,
and/or consumption of food; and wastepaper, plastic or related materials used
in the packaging and preparation of foods and/or animal waste.
GOOD STATE OF REPAIR: That a building, structure or parcel of land is safe and
habitable for its ordinary and intended use, and that the materials used in any
structure or fixture are sound, stable and conform to its original purpose and
performing the function for which intended and not in need of maintenance.
GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: Any felt tip marker, etching material, paint stick, or
aerosol container which contains paint, ink, dye, or any other substance that
is not water soluble and is capable of resulting in the placement of graffiti
upon any surface or substance, including, but not limited to, glass, metal,
concrete, wood, or plastic.
GRAFFITI OR INSCRIBED MATERIAL: Any inscription, word(s), figure(s), mark(s),
or design(s) whether written, marked, etched, scratched, drawn, or painted on
any real or personal public or private property in the city without the
permission of the owner and which is visible from a public right of way or any
neighboring property.
HOARDING OR HOARDING CONDITIONS: The excessive collection of items, along with
the inability to discard them. Hoarding often creates such cramped conditions
that homes or yards may be filled to capacity, with only narrow pathways
winding through stacks of clutter. Hoarding also includes the hoarding of
animals, often resulting in dozens or hundreds of pets kept in unsanitary
conditions.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: A vehicle that is mechanically incapable of being driven;
or prohibited from being operated on a public street or highway pursuant to the
provisions of the California Vehicle Code, concerning license plates,
registration, equipment, safety and related matters.
NUISANCE: Anything that violates the standards provided herein, or any other
city, county, state or federal law.
OCCUPANT: Any person living, sleeping or having actual possession of a
dwelling.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, structure
or parcel of land, or part thereof.
OWNER: The person(s) to whom property tax is assessed on real or personal
property, as shown on the last equalized assessment roll of the county, renter
(s), tenant(s), lessor(s), and other occupants residing permanently or
temporarily on property, or the registered owner of a vehicle.
PERSON: Individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, association,
social club, fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver, or any other
entity.
PREMISES: Any building, legal lot of record, parcel, real estate, or portion of
land, whether improved or unimproved, occupied or unoccupied, including
adjacent streets, sidewalks, parkways, and parking strips.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including, but not limited to, land, lot, or
parcel of land, or any portion thereof held by any owner, and shall include any
alley, sidewalk, parkway, or unimproved public easement abutting such real
property, lot, or parcel of land.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Land, buildings, structures, or fixtures that are owned by a
public agency. For the purposes of this chapter, public property does not
include streets.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any travel trailer, camper, motor home, or trailer (as
defined in Vehicle Code sections 242, 243, and 630, respectively), or any
camper shell or boat.
RESIDENTIAL USE: Any property zoned for residential use as provided for in this
title. Sidewalks, parkways, public or private alleyways, and streets adjacent
to residential property shall be considered a residential area for purposes of
this chapter.
RESIDENTIALLY DEVELOPED PROPERTY: Any property developed with a conforming
dwelling unit or legal nonconforming dwelling unit.
RUBBISH: All waste which includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Animal or human offal, asphalt, inoperative bicycles and parts, boards,
inoperative boats and parts, bottles, boxes, bricks, cans, cartons, cement,
cinder blocks, concrete, containers, crates, dirt, doors, equipment, glass,
gravel, hoses, lumber, machinery, metal, paint, pallets, paper, pipe, plaster,
rebar, rocks, rubber, sand, siding boards, stucco, tile, windows, wire, wood,
and other similar material.
   B.   Trimmings, clippings and cuttings from lawns, shrubs and trees, and all
dead or uprooted grass, sod, shrubs, trees, vegetables and dirt, and firewood
piles.
   C.   Rugs, bedding, furniture, utensils, clothing, toys, appliances,
household supplies and equipment.
   D.   Vehicle bodies, motors, tires, parts nonoperative toys, bicycles,
motorcycles, automobiles, mechanical equipment, liquids and other fluids, and
machines or parts thereof and accessories.
   E.   Any other similar item and material of residential, commercial or
industrial nature existing in an unusable, inoperative, discarded or abandoned
condition.
STRUCTURALLY SOUND: Free of imperfections which affect the intended use of the
structure so as not to endanger the health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants or neighbors.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, built, or planted upon, any edifice or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of
parts joined together in some definite manner, which structure requires
location on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the
ground, including fences, gates, garages, carports, swimming and wading pools,
patios, outdoor areas, paved areas, walks, tennis courts, and similar
recreation areas.
SUPPLIED: Paid for, furnished or provided by or under control of the owner or
operator.
SWALE: All unpaved portions of right of way located between the edge of
pavement and the property line or an easement located on property adjacent to
the right of way line.
TRASH: All small discarded materials from around a premises that can be
deposited in an approved trash receptacle for collection and can be burned or
otherwise properly handled at an incinerator.
VERMIN: All common harmful or objectionable animals or insects that are
difficult to control. (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-3: RESERVED: (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-4: REAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS AND UNLAWFUL CONDITIONS:
All developed real property in the city shall be maintained at a level not less
than the following standards visible from the street, sidewalk, or public right
of way.
   A.   Exterior Maintenance Of Structure And Premises:
      1.   The accumulation of weeds, dirt, litter, rubbish or debris on the
property to such an extent that it constitutes visual blight is prohibited.
      2.   All exterior surfaces of buildings or sheds, excluding roofs, shall
be properly maintained and protected from the elements by paint or other
protective coating applied in a workmanlike fashion.
      3.   Painted or protective coatings shall be uniform in color without
blemishes throughout the exterior.
      4.   Every foundation, exterior wall, window, roof and all other exterior
surfaces shall be free of holes, cracks, breaks, loose or rotted wood and any
condition which might allow rain or moisture, vermin, pests or insects to enter
the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied spaces of any dwelling,
commercial building or structure.
   B.   Condition Of Structures:
      1.   Structures shall not be partially destroyed, abandoned, unsecured,
or permitted to remain in an unchanged state of partial construction for more
than thirty (30) consecutive days.
      2.   Buildings, windows, doors, walls, fences, trash enclosures, parking
areas or other structures, which are significantly cracked or broken, fallen,
decayed, dry rotted, warped, deteriorated, defective, defaced, in disrepair or
missing components, or which either:
         a.   Threaten structural integrity; or
         b.   Result in a dilapidated, decaying, disfigured, or partially
ruined appearance to such an extent that they contribute to blight or threaten
the public health, safety or welfare are prohibited.
      3.   Exterior building surfaces and roofs shall be maintained free of
significant surface cracks, missing materials, warping, dry rot which either
threaten the structural integrity, or result in a dilapidated, decaying,
disfigured, or partially ruined appearance.
      4.   Roofs shall be structurally sound, watertight and shall prevent
rainwater or moisture from entering the walls, ceilings or any other portion of
the dwelling, commercial building or structure. All building roofs and gutters
shall be maintained in good repair and in good condition to prevent
deterioration. In the event a roof shingle or tile is replaced, the replacement
shingle or tile shall be of the closest possible color and shade to the
existing roofing shingles or tiles.
   C.   Use Of Tarps: Tarps for roof and building repairs shall be prohibited,
except for emergency repairs. Additionally, the use of tarps for temporary
canopies, enclosures, and/or awnings is prohibited in any front yard area
visible from any public right of way.
   D.   Graffiti: Graffiti abatement shall be pursuant to
title 5, chapter 12 of this code.
   E.   Lighting: All exterior light fixtures shall be maintained in good
working order free of broken lamps, lenses, and light bulbs. Furthermore, the
structural integrity of all supporting poles and mounting fixtures shall be
maintained. All insulation and connections shall be intact and free of exposed
wire.
   F.   Windows: Broken windows, glass doors, and the use of materials other
than glass as a replacement or covering of windowpanes are prohibited.
      1.   Screening: All window and glass door screens shall be maintained
free of substantial tears, rips, and holes visible from any public right of
way.
   G.   Signs: All signage shall be maintained in the originally permitted and
constructed condition as required by chapter 14, "Signs And Outdoor
Advertising", of this title.
   H.   Walls And Fences:
      1.   Fences, exterior walls, exterior doors, exterior windows, decorative
walls, perimeter hedges, trellis, and screen enclosures shall be maintained in
a good state of repair.
      2.   Any fencing required as a condition of any permit or development
approval or included in the project plans or application, as approved by the
city, including, but not limited to, those fences, which abut major
thoroughfares, sound walls, or those fences required by a use permit, shall be
maintained in a good state of repair.
      3.   Any required fence must be maintained consistent with and/or
reasonably match the materials to be replaced or which were used when the fence
was originally constructed.
      4.   Improperly fenced, unsanitary or otherwise hazardous pools, ponds
and excavations shall be repaired or removed in a reasonable manner and time
period to ensure public health.
      5.   Fences which are leaning or listing more than fifteen degrees (15°)
from perpendicular or are in danger of collapse due to the elements, pest
infestation, dry rot, lack of maintenance or other damage, shall be repaired or
replaced in a reasonable manner and time period to protect the public health
and safety.
      6.   All walls, retaining and crib walls, and fences abutting public
rights of way (including alleys), and trash enclosures, shall be maintained
free of significant surface cracks, dry rot, warping, deterioration, leaning,
missing panels or blocks, which either threaten the structural integrity or
result in a dilapidated, decaying, disfigured, or partially ruined appearance.
      7.   Pool barrier fencing and gates for swimming pools and spas shall be
maintained as required by the California building code. Swimming pools and spas
shall not contain unfiltered or stagnant water.
   I.   Trash Container Areas:
      1.   Trash bins, trash cans or dumpsters shall be kept within a trash
enclosure, or screened from public view to the maximum extent feasible. Trash
bins shall also be maintained free of graffiti.
      2.   Overflowing trash bins or dumpsters due to an inadequate number of
bins and/or request for service from the trash hauler are prohibited. Use of
commercial trash bins for residential uses in the one-family residential zone
district is prohibited, except for the purpose of removing construction and
demolition materials related to construction activities.
      3.   All trash container areas shall be maintained in a manner which
prevents the accumulation of trash, debris, rubbish and litter by providing
sufficient dumpsters and sufficient frequency of trash pick-ups. In the case of
single-family residences, trash containers shall be set out no earlier than
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. the day before the designated pick up and left out no
longer than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. the designated day of pick-up.
      4.   All new dumpsters, existing dumpsters, and other containers shall be
constructed and shall be located and maintained in such a manner to provide
screening from public view.
      5.   Trash containers in commercial areas shall be maintained and
operated in such a manner as to not impede traffic due to the doors being
allowed to swing open for an extended period of time.
   J.   Accumulation Of Stagnant Water:
      1.   No person owning, operating or having possession of any property
within the city shall allow the accumulation of stagnant water in excess of two
inches (2") for a period of twenty-four (24) or more hours following the
cessation of the most recent measurable rainfall.
      2.   On site drainage improvements shall be maintained in order to
prevent deterioration, disrepair, and ineffectiveness.
      3.   Roofs or other structures or improvements designed for the retention
of water are exempt from this section but shall be subject to the design
capabilities of said roof, structure or improvement or other applicable
requirements.
   K.   Parking And Paved Areas:
      1.   All parking and paved areas shall be maintained in a good state of
repair, which shall include proper drainage to prevent the accumulation of
pools of water, and the correction and removal of all ruts, potholes, and
broken pavement. In parking areas, the parking spaces shall be maintained in a
manner, which clearly delineates said spaces and shall include maintenance of
parking space striping, directional markings, stop bars, or other indicators.
Wheel stops, curbing and any other paved surfaces shall be free of breaks,
cracks and other deficiencies.
      2.   This section shall apply to all paved area, including, but not
limited to, parking areas and ingress or egress driveways. Additionally, a
building permit shall be required for all resurfacing, resealing, restriping,
replacement of commercial parking areas.
      3.   The parking of vehicles on lawns, vegetation, dirt, or any other
surfaces which are not paved and graded to support, eliminate dust or any mud,
and drained as to dispose of all surface water, is not allowable.
      4.   Parking areas, private alleys, driveways, public sidewalks, and
walkways shall be maintained free of potholes, cracks, breaks, lifting, and
other deteriorated conditions.
   L.   Landscaping:
      1.   Parkway Landscaping: The public parkway shall be landscaped and
maintained by the adjacent property owner(s). The landscaping shall be
maintained in a healthy condition free of dying, dead, diseased, decayed,
discarded and/or overgrown vegetation.
      2.   Prohibited Materials: Rubbish, brush, weeds, broken glass, stumps,
roots, obnoxious growths, filth, garbage, trash and debris shall not be
permitted on any premises. This subsection shall not apply to garbage, trash
and debris, placed in approved receptacles for appropriate collection and
removal.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: Dead and/or dying trees and limbs or other
natural growth, which constitute a fire hazard, or health or safety hazard to
persons or property, are prohibited, and shall be removed and replaced.
      4.   Ground Surface Hazards: Ground surface hazards such as holes,
excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and excretion of pets and other
animals on paths, walks, driveways, parking lots and parking areas, and other
portions of the premises are prohibited, and shall be reasonably repaired or
removed.
   M.   Landscaping Maintenance Requirements:
      1.   Owner Responsible For Maintenance: The owner shall be responsible
for the maintenance of all landscaping on the premises. This includes
maintaining abutting rights of way, swales, and canal banks. Landscaping shall
be maintained in a good condition to present a healthy, neat and orderly
appearance so as not to detract from the appearance of the general area.
Landscaping shall be maintained such that it will not cause property damage and
public safety hazards, including removal of living, dead or decaying plant
material, removal of low hanging branches below twelve feet (12') above grade
and those obstructing street lighting.
      2.   Maintenance Of Irrigation Systems: Irrigation systems shall be
maintained to eliminate water loss due to damaged, missing or improperly
operating sprinkler heads, emitters, pipes and all other portions of the
irrigation system and shall not be installed or operated to place water on
roads.
   N.   Maintenance Of Swales (Bioretention):
      1.   Maintenance Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to maintain the swale area to the following minimum standards:
         a.   Free of debris; and
         b.   Grass and/or weeds cut no higher than six inches (6") and edged
away from the sidewalk and roadway; and
      2.   Shrubs And Bushes: Shrubs and bushes shall be kept trimmed to a
height not to exceed four feet (4'), or as otherwise necessary to provide
unrestricted visibility at driveways and street intersections; and
      3.   Overhanging Branches: Overhanging branches of trees shall be pruned
to a height of at least twelve feet (12') above grade; and
      4.   Prohibited Species: The swale shall be kept free and clear of
prohibited species, as set forth in low impact development standards
(resolution 2016-008, adopted January 26, 2016).
   O.   Maintenance Of Canal Rights Of Way Or Easements: No owner or any person
in their employ or under their control shall deposit any rubbish, filth,
construction debris, litter, garbage, grass cuttings, or poisonous or
deleterious substance, or substances liable to affect the health, safety and
welfare of persons or fish, in any ponding basin, canal, ditch, or other
waterways within the city.
   P.   Determination Of Need For Correction: Structures and premises
constituting a blighting influence will be considered deficient. A blighting
influence on the surrounding neighborhood in violation of this chapter shall
exist when a deficiency or combination of deficiencies represents more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the area on any wall, exterior premises,
structure, roof or paved surface as viewed from any single vantage point off
the property.
   Q.   Repair And Installation: Repairs and installation shall be made to
comply with the applicable codes and standards of the City of Reedley and the
California Uniform Building Code, the provisions contained herein and/or a city
approved site plan. All work shall proceed in a timely fashion and be done in a
workmanlike manner. (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-5: STANDARDS FOR VACANT REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Property Secured And Maintained: All undeveloped, fallow or vacant real
property in the city shall be secured and maintained at a level not less than
the following standards during the time period that such property remains
vacant:
      1.   All structures, equipment, walls, and fencing on the property shall
be maintained free of graffiti.
      2.   All landscaped, concrete, dirt or paved open areas on the real
property and adjoining public parkway shall be kept clear of rubbish, litter,
and weeds.
      3.   Unless required to protect public health and safety, the
installation of temporary fencing is not mandated. No temporary fence shall be
installed without obtaining a city permit through the community development
department, which shall review the fence location and proposed material(s).
Chainlink fencing shall only be used in conjunction with an opaque screening
material.
      4.   The responsible person or entity shall maintain the fence in good
repair and condition. If the fence is not maintained properly, the enforcement
officer may order its removal and replacement. The fence may be properly posted
with "no trespassing" signs, and the fence shall be kept clear of all other
signs, except lawfully installed signs.
   B.   Boarded Up Structures:
      1.   The city recognizes that from time to time it may be necessary to
secure vacant property and structures because of abandonment, disrepair, public
hazard or natural disaster. Unsecured vacant property and structures can lead
to vandalism problems, occupancy safety problems and appearance problems. The
city hereby creates the following standards for securing vacant structures:
         a.   Vacant Structures Secured: Vacant structures may be secured via
boarding up windows, doors, or other openings when deemed necessary by or
otherwise approved by the fire chief, enforcement officer, building official,
or in order to maintain the safety of persons or property. All boards visible
from the structure's exterior shall be painted to reasonably match the
structure's exterior.
         b.   Enforcement Officer Review: Any means of securing property
including crime prevention devices shall be subject to review by the
enforcement officer for safety. Safety bars, grating, or other similar
apparatus shall be designed and installed pursuant to the California building
code.
         c.   Repairs: The owner or occupant of an occupied structure shall
promptly repair any broken door or window so that a temporary boarded up
condition is limited. Any such repair, other than in the case of a natural
disaster, shall be made within ten (10) days, unless the necessary repairs
cannot be performed within ten (10) days, in which case the repairs shall be
diligently pursued until completion at the earliest reasonable time.
         d.   Security Lighting: All structures which could be used for human
habitation shall have an operable and effective exterior security lighting
system. The front and rear yards shall each be illuminated with a minimum of
one light. The lighting shall be capable of illuminating the structure's
exterior so as to be visible from the street or alley from dusk to dawn, but
the lights shall be shielded to avoid lighting adjacent properties. (Ord. 2024-
003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-6: USE OF PORTABLE SELF-STORAGE CONTAINERS:
Portable storage containers, such as PODS or larger shipping containers are
becoming more popular as a low cost means of providing additional secure
storage during construction or remodeling in lieu of permanent accessory
structure or off site fee based storage. To protect the residential character
of the neighborhood, placement of any portable storage unit is subject to the
following restrictions:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place or permit the placement of a
portable storage unit(s) on property with a residential zone district
classification, unless the placement complies with this section.
      1.   Portable storage unit(s) shall be placed on the driveway or a
parking area, or the side or rear yard if vehicular access exists at the side
or rear of the site. The required parking space(s) shall at all times be
maintained if a portable storage unit(s) is placed in parking areas.
      2.   No more than two (2) portable storage units may be placed on the
property at any time.
      3.   The portable storage unit(s) may be located at such property for a
maximum of fourteen (14) consecutive days, including the days of delivery and
removal. The limited purpose is the portable storage of furniture, clothing or
other household belongings, coming from or to a structure on the property.
      4.   The date that the portable storage unit(s) is delivered must be
clearly posted, in a weather resistant manner, on the exterior of the unit.
      5.   The ancillary placement of a portable storage unit(s) to a
construction/rehabilitation project shall require a building permit from the
community development department, building division. The fee for such a permit
shall be set from time to time by city resolution, and shall be payable upon
issuance of the permit. The permit shall be valid for up to one hundred eighty
(180) days from issuance.
         a.   A permit may be renewed for another one hundred eighty (180) day
period upon payment of any applicable fee.
         b.   No portable storage unit(s) shall be located on property beyond
the time permitted.
      6.   The property owner and owner/supplier of the portable storage unit
shall each be independently responsible for ensuring that the portable storage
unit(s) is maintained in good condition, free from evidence of deterioration,
weathering, discoloration, graffiti, rust, ripping, tearing or other holes or
breaks, at all times.
      7.   No portable storage unit(s) shall be used to store solid waste,
construction debris, demolition debris or any illegal or hazardous material.
Upon reasonable notice to the property owner, the city may inspect the contents
of any portable storage unit(s) at any reasonable time to ensure that it is not
being used to store said materials.
      8.   No portable storage unit(s) may be used to house humans or animals
of any kind.
      9.   Placement of a portable storage unit in the city's right of way or
upon any public street is prohibited.
   B.   Portable storage unit(s) are allowed in the industrial zone districts,
provided that the unit(s) be placed out of public view and/or screened from
public view.
      1.   Placement of a portable storage unit(s) for permanent or
semipermanent use shall require a building permit and shall have an engineered
foundation and meet all other applicable codes and standards for placement on
the property.
      2.   Portable storage unit(s) are prohibited on industrially zoned
property on which the primary use is a nonconforming residential use unless a
permit is obtained in accordance with subsection A.5. of this section.
   C.   Portable storage unit(s) are allowed in the service commercial and
central business zone districts, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Any units are screened with sight obscuring fencing or landscaping
approved by the community development department.
      2.   A permit is obtained from the community development department,
building division, in accordance with subsection A.5. of this section.
      3.   Any units shall only be used as a shipping container and applicable
licenses shall be maintained for each container. The city may require proof of
active licenses.
      4.   No unit(s) may be permanently installed.
      5.   Portable storage unit(s) are prohibited on service commercial zoned
property or central business zoned property on which the primary use is a
nonconforming residential use unless a permit is obtained in accordance with
subsection A.5. of this section. (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-7: INOPERABLE, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Abandoned Vehicles Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to keep,
maintain, or deposit on any property in the city any abandoned motor vehicle or
any inoperative vehicle as defined in the California Vehicle Code, or any part
thereof, unless such vehicle or part is completely enclosed within a structure
in a lawful manner or is not visible from the street or from other public or
private property, or unless such vehicle or part is stored or parked in a
lawful manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, or junkyard.
   B.   Vehicles, Including Motor Homes, Trailers, And Boats: No vehicle,
including a recreational vehicle, motor home, camper, camper shell, boat, or
trailer, shall be parked or stored outside of a garage or carport on an unpaved
or unimproved surface on any property in the city.
   C.   Vehicle Parts: The keeping, storage, depositing, or accumulation on the
premises of motor vehicle part(s) or scrap, including tires, which is visible
at ground level from a public street, alley or from adjoining property is
prohibited, except personal use items allowed by city review or permit in
appropriate commercial or industrial zones. (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   The owner, occupant, lessee, or tenant of any property within the city
shall be responsible for the maintenance of property and premises in a manner
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and this code.
   B.   In order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, when the city
manager or his/her duly authorized agents and representatives find and
determine that the severity of the violation warrants immediate action, he/she
may clean up or abate violation thereof. The cost of such cleanup or abatement
may be recovered by the city using any legal remedies available to the city.
Such cleanup or abatement shall not relieve the person of responsibility for
the abatement costs or other action which may be taken by the city manager or
his/her duly authorized agents and representatives, including, but not limited
to, liability for any violations of this chapter or any other applicable
provisions of state law and local ordinances. (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-9: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedure To Issue Citations: The city of Reedley shall have
jurisdiction to issue citations in which violations of this chapter are
alleged. In the city's effort to safeguard life, health, and public welfare in
keeping with the character of the city, the city shall remedy such allegations
using the procedures set forth in
Title 1, Chapter 12, "Administrative Citations", of this code. These remedies
include the procedures for issuance of administrative citations (Sections
1-12-4 et seq., of this code) and fines assessed (Sections
1-12-8 et seq., of this code). These remedies shall be in addition to all other
legal remedies, criminal or civil, which may be pursued by the city to address
any public nuisance.
   B.   Right Of Entry: The enforcement officer may enter any property or
premises at all times to perform any duty imposed upon him/her by this chapter
whenever the enforcement officer has cause to believe a violation of provisions
of this chapter is occurring, provided that:
      1.   The enforcement officer shall present proper credentials, state the
reason for entry, and request entry from the owner or occupant.
      2.   If entry is denied, he/she may seek a court ordered inspection
warrant if cause exists pursuant to the Code Of Civil Procedure, §§ 1822.50 et
seq.
      3.   If entry is denied, the enforcement officer shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
      4.   The enforcement officer shall make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner of unoccupied property or premises, inform the owner of the reasons for
entry, and request entry.
      5.   The enforcement officer shall not enter any property or premises in
the absence of permission to enter, unless an inspection warrant has been
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-10: REMEDIES OF PRIVATE PARTIES:
The provisions of this chapter shall in no way adversely affect the right of
the owner, lessee or occupant of any such lot to recover all costs and expenses
required by this chapter from any person causing such nuisance or failure to
maintain private property. (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-11: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the city council from
directing the city attorney to commence a civil or criminal proceeding to abate
a public nuisance under applicable civil or penal code provisions as an
alternative to the proceedings set forth in this chapter, or initiating summary
abatement of any nuisance as follows:
   A.   The city may immediately abate any nuisance or violation of this
chapter that poses a clear and imminent danger to, or requires immediate action
to prevent or mitigate the loss or impairment of life, health, property, or
essential public services. The city may perform this abatement without
providing prior notice or hearing to the owner or occupier of the offending
premises. Such summary abatement may proceed only upon the authorization of the
city manager or his/her designee. The abatement shall include all actions
necessary to secure the premises to prevent further occurrences of the
nuisance.
   B.   The owner and/or occupier of the premises or other responsible party
creating, causing, allowing, permitting, committing, or maintaining the
nuisance shall be subject to any abatement costs, enforcement costs,
administrative fines and penalties imposed or incurred by the city pursuant to
this chapter. In any action or proceeding in which the City elects, at the
initiation of that individual action or proceeding, to recover attorneys' fees
under this Section, attorneys' fees will be recovered by the prevailing party.
   C.   Any abatement actions performed by the city pursuant to this Chapter
shall be at the expense of the owner and/or occupier of the premises or other
responsible party creating, causing, allowing, permitting, committing, or
maintaining the nuisance. The city shall recover its expenses pursuant to the
procedures contained in Section
4-2-13 of this code, or any other applicable provision of the law.
   D.   As soon as practicable following completion of the abatement, the fire
chief or other designated city official shall issue a notice of violation and/
or notice and order in accordance with this chapter. Persons receiving such
notice shall be entitled to all hearing rights as provided herein. (Ord. 2024-
003, 8-13-2024)
9-4-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this chapter. The council hereby declares that it would have passed
this chapter and adopted this chapter and each section, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 2024-003, 8-13-2024)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1. ENACTMENT AND APPLICABILITY
CHAPTER 10.02
PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY OF THE ZONING CODE
SECTION:
10.02.010: Title
10.02.020: Adoption
10.02.030: Purpose and Objectives
10.02.040: Applicability of the Zoning Code
10.02.050: Relationship to Prior Code
10.02.060: Relationship to General Plan
10.02.070: Relationship to Other City Ordinances
10.02.080: Severability, Partial Invalidation of Zoning Code
10.02.010: TITLE:
Title 10 of the Reedley City Code, containing the City of Reedley's zoning
regulations, shall be known as the "Reedley Zoning Code", herein referred to as
the "Zoning Code." (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.02.020: ADOPTION:
   A.   Authority. This Zoning Code is enacted based on the authority vested in
the city by the state of California, including but not limited to the
Constitution of the state of California; Planning and Zoning Law (Government
Code §§ 65000 et seq.); and the California Environmental Quality Act (Public
Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq.).
   B.   Enactment. This Zoning Code shall take effect thirty (30) days after
its passage, and before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after its passage a
summary shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation,
published in the city together with the names of Council members voting for and
against the same. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.02.030: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
This Zoning Code is adopted to preserve, protect, and promote the public
health, safety, peace, comfort, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare.
The Zoning Code is adopted to achieve the following objectives:
   A.   To provide guidance on the physical development of the city in such a
manner as to achieve the arrangement of land uses as depicted in the City of
Reedley's General Plan.
   B.   To foster an attractive living environment, while complying with the
objectives, policies, principles, and standards of the City of Reedley's
General Plan.
   C.   To promote a safe, effective traffic circulation system, the provision
of adequate off-street parking and loading facilities and the appropriate
location of community facilities.
   D.   To protect and promote appropriately located commercial and industrial
activities to preserve and strengthen the city's economic base.
   E.   To protect and enhance real property values and the city's natural
assets.
   F.   To ensure unimpeded development of such new urban expansion that is
logical, desirable and in conformance with objectives and policies of the
City's General Plan.
   G.   To provide and protect open space in accordance with policies of the
Open Space Element of the City's General Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.02.040: APPLICABILITY OF THE ZONING CODE:
   A.   General Applicability. This Zoning Code applies to all property within
the municipal boundaries of the City of Reedley whether owned, leased, or
operated by private persons, firms, corporations, or organizations. Any
property owned, leased, or operated by the United States of America or any of
its agencies; the State of California or any of its agencies; the County of
Fresno or any of their agencies; the City of Reedley or any of its agencies; or
by an authority or district organized under the laws of the State of
California, are exempt from this Title. Additionally, the following are all
exempt from the provisions established in this Zone Code:
      1.   Public streets and alleys.
      2.   Underground utility lines and facilities.
      3.   Underground communication lines.
      4.   Overhead communication lines.
      5.   Overhead and underground electric and gas distribution and
transmission facilities.
      6.   Railroad rights-of-way, as defined in Article 8 (Definitions) of
this Zoning Code.
   B.   Subdivisions. Any subdivision of land proposed within the City of
Reedley after the effective date of this Zoning Code shall be consistent with
the minimum parcel size requirements established in Article 2 (Zones and
Allowable Land Uses), the subdivision requirements established in Title 11
(Subdivision Ordinance), state law, including, but not limited to the
Subdivision Map Act, and all other applicable requirements of this Zoning Code.
The agencies of the State of California are exempt from this Title. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.02.050: RELATIONSHIP TO PRIOR CODE:
The provisions of this Zoning Code, as it existed before the effective date of
Ordinance No. 2024-001, are repealed and superseded as provided in the
ordinance enacting this Title. No provision of this Zoning Code shall validate
or legalize any land use, structure, or subdivision constructed, created,
established, or maintained in violation of this Zoning Code's standards as they
existed before repeal by the ordinance enacting this Zoning Code, except as
addressed by nonconformities created by this Zoning Code, in compliance with
Article 5 (Nonconformities). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.02.060: RELATIONSHIP TO GENERAL PLAN:
   A.   General Plan Consistency. All actions and procedures pertaining to the
granting or denial of various permits or other entitlements provided for by
this Zoning Code shall be consistent with all applicable goals, policies, and
land use arrangements established by the General Plan.
   B.   Inconsistencies Between the General Plan and Zoning Code. Where
inconsistencies are found to exist between the General Plan and this Zoning
Code, the Zoning Code shall control the use and development of the land until
the City Council amends the Zoning Code to achieve consistency with the
existing General Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.02.070: RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER CITY ORDINANCES:
No provision of this Zoning Code is intended to abrogate, repeal, annul,
impair, or interfere with any existing ordinance(s). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.02.080: SEVERABILITY, PARTIAL INVALIDATION OF ZONING CODE:
If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Title is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this Title. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
passed this Title and adopted this Title and each section, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.04
INTERPRETATION OF THE ZONING CODE
SECTION:
10.04.010: Purpose
10.04.020: Rules Of Interpretation
10.04.030: Procedures For Interpretation
10.04.040: Land Uses Not Classified
10.04.050: Headings And Illustrations
10.04.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to specify the authority and procedures for
clarifying any ambiguity in the regulations of this Zoning Code, and to ensure
its consistent interpretation and application. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.04.020: RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Authority. The Community Development Director shall decide any
questions involving the interpretation or application of any provision of this
Zoning Code. However, any interpretation of the Director may be appealed to the
Planning Commission and the interpretation of the Planning Commission may be
appealed to the City Council.
   B.   Minimum Requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Zoning Code are held to be minimum requirements except where
they are expressly stated otherwise.
   C.   State Law Requirements. Where this Zoning Code refers to provisions of
State law (e.g., the California Government Code, Subdivision Map Act, Public
Resources Code, etc.), the references shall be interpreted to be to the
applicable State law provisions as they may be amended from time to time.
   D.   Terminology. When used in this Zoning Code, the following rules shall
apply:
      1.   Language. When used in this Zoning Code, the word "shall" is always
mandatory and not discretionary. The word "should" is not mandatory but is
strongly recommended. The word "may" is permissive.
      2.   Tense. The present tense includes the past and future tenses; and
the future tense includes the present.
      3.   Number. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the natural construction of the word indicates otherwise.
      4.   Conjunctions. When used in this Zoning Code "and" indicates that all
connected items or provisions shall apply. "Or" indicates that the connected
items or provisions may apply singly or in any combination. "Either…or"
indicates that the connected items and provisions shall apply singly but not in
combination. "Includes" and "including" shall mean "including, but not limited
to."
      5.   Local Reference. The word "City" as used in this Zoning Code shall
mean the City of Reedley and all public officials, bodies, and agencies
references in this Zoning Code are those of the City, unless otherwise
specified.
      6.   Definitions. All terms used in this Zoning Code shall be defined in
Article 8 (Definitions) and/or as determined/interpreted by the Community
Development Director. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.04.030: PROCEDURES FOR INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Request for Interpretation. Any party may file a request for an
interpretation or clarification of this Zoning Code with the Community
Development Director. Request for review shall include the specific provisions
in question and any other information necessary to assist the Director in their
review.
   B.   Types of Interpretations. The authority of the Community Development
Director as established in Section 10.04.20 A (Authority), shall apply in all
the following cases:
      1.   If ambiguity arises concerning the appropriate classification of a
particular use within the meaning and intent of this Zoning Code, subject to
the additional requirements established in Section
10.04.040 (Uses Not Classified).
      2.   If ambiguity exists with reference to matters of height, yard area,
and other requirements.
      3.   If uncertainty exists with reference to a zone district boundary.
See Section
10.06.050 (Uncertainty of Zoning District Boundaries) for additional
regulations pertaining to the interpretation of zoning district boundaries.
      4.   If an unforeseen condition arises or technological changes have been
introduced which require interpretation of their impact on the provisions of
this Zoning Code.
      5.   If ambiguity or uncertainty arises as to the meaning of any word or
provision contained in this Zoning Code.
      6.   If a conflict, ambiguity, or uncertainty arises between the Zoning
Code text and any diagram, illustration, or image contained in this Zoning
Code. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.04.040: LAND USES NOT CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Land Use Not Listed is Not Allowed. If a proposed land use is not
specifically listed in Article 2 (Zoning Districts, Allowable Land Uses, and
Development Standards), the use shall not be al-lowed, except as provided in
Subsection B, below.
   B.   Community Development Director Determination. The Community Development
Director upon application or on their own initiative, may determine that a
proposed land use that is not listed in Article 2 (Zoning Districts, Allowable
Land Uses, and Development Standards) may be allowed. The Community Development
Director may approve, modify, or deny a classification of use request. The
decision of the Community Development Director shall be final unless appealed
in compliance with Section
10.04.020  (Authority). In making this determination, the Community Development
Director shall, at their discretion, make at least five (5) of the following
findings:
      1.   The addition of the land use complies with the purposes of the
zoning district in which the land use is proposed;
      2.   The land use has the same basic characteristics as the land uses
allowed in the zoning district;
      3.   The land use can reasonably be expected to comply with the
development standards established for the zoning district in which the proposed
land use is to be added;
      4.   The land use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety,
or welfare;
      5.   The land use will not generate additional vehicular traffic than the
volume normally generated by any of the land uses allowed in the zoning
district;
      6.   The land use will not adversely affect the character of any zoning
district in which it is proposed to be allowed;
      7.   The land use will not generate additional odor, dirt, smoke, noise,
vibration, illumination, glare, unsightliness, or any other objectionable
influence than the amount normally generated by any of the other land uses
allowed in the zoning district;
      8.   The land use will not generate any greater hazard of fire or
explosion than the hazards normally generated by any of the other land uses
allowed in the zoning district.
   C.   When a land use has been added to a list of allowed uses in compliance
with this Section, the land use shall be deemed to be listed as an allowed use
in the appropriate zoning district and shall be added to the text of that
section of this Zoning Code when it is next published. Although, the allowed
use in the appropriate zoning district is permitted, the filing of a
discretionary, ministerial, and/or Building Permit may still be required, if
applicable. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.04.050: HEADINGS AND ILLUSTRATIONS:
   A.   Headings.  The headings of the article, chapter, section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase, and portion thereof of this
Zoning Code, together with the accompanying illustrations, examples, and
explanatory notes, are inserted as a matter of convenience and illustrative
purposes only and in no way define, limit, or enlarge the scope or meaning of
this Zoning Code or its provisions.
   B.   Illustrations and Diagrams.  In case of a conflict between the Zoning
Code text and any dia-gram, illustration, or image contained in this Code, the
Community Development Director shall make a determination subject to appeal
provisions provided in Section
10.04.020 . (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.06
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP
SECTION:
10.06.010: Purpose
10.06.020: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
10.06.030: Effect Of Zoning District Regulations
10.06.040: Official Zoning Map
10.06.050: Uncertainty Of Zoning District Boundaries
10.06.060: Classification Of Annexed Parcels
10.06.010: PURPOSE:
This Chapter established the zoning districts applied to property within the
City and adopts the Official Zoning Map. All public and private property in the
city shall be divided into zoning districts in a manner that is consistent with
goals and policies of the General Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.06.020: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Base Zoning Districts. Every parcel shall have a base zone district
that establishes the primary type and intensity of land uses allowed, along
with development standards for that particular type and intensity of land use.
   B.   Overlay Zoning Districts.  Overlay zoning districts supplement the use
regulations and/or development standards of the applicable underlying base
zone, where important site, neighborhood, or area characteristics require
particular attention in project planning. In the event of conflict between the
base zone regulations and the overlay zone regulations, the most restrictive
regulation shall apply. When an overlay zone is attached to a base zone
additional governmental review may be required.
   C.   Zoning Districts Implementing the General Plan.  Table 10.06-A (Zoning
Districts Implementing the General Plan), below, identifies all City adopted
and recognized zoning districts. All zoning districts shall be listed and
appropriately designated on the Official Zoning Map.
Table 10.06-A
Zoning Districts Implementing the General Plan
Zoning Map Symbol Zone Name Density (maximum unless Corresponding General Plan
                            otherwise specified)    Land Use Designation(s)
Table 10.06-A
Zoning Districts Implementing the General Plan
                                        Density (maximum Corresponding General
Zoning Map Symbol Zone Name             unless otherwise Plan Land Use
                                        specified)       Designation(s)
   Residential Zones
                  Residential Estate                     Suburban Residential
RE                (300,000 sq. ft.      4 du/ac          (SR)
                  minimum site area)
                                        4 du/ac          Suburban Residential
                  One-Unit Residential                   (SR)
R-1(SP)           (5,000 sq. ft.        8 du/ac          Low Density
                  minimum site area)                     Residential (LDR)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        4 du/ac          Suburban Residential
                  One-Unit Residential                   (SR)
R-1-6             (6,000 sq. ft.        8 du/ac          Low Density
                  minimum site area)                     Residential (LDR)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        4 du/ac          Suburban Residential
                  One-Unit Residential                   (SR)
R-1-7             (7,000 sq. ft.        8 du/ac          Low Density
                  minimum site area)                     Residential (LDR)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        4 du/ac          Suburban Residential
                  One-Unit Residential                   (SR)
R-1-9             (8,000 sq. ft.        8 du/ac          Low Density
                  minimum site area)                     Residential (LDR)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                  One-Unit Residential  4 du/ac          Suburban Residential
R-1-12            (11,000 sq. ft.                        (SR)
                  minimum site area)    -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        15 du/ac         Medium Density
MDR               Medium Density                         Residential (MDR)
                  Residential           -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        29 du/ac         High Density
HDR               High Density                           Residential (HDR)
                  Residential           -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
Commercial and Office Zones
                                        -                Central Downtown
                                                         Commercial (CDC)
                                        -                Neighborhood
                  Neighborhood                           Commercial (NC)
CN                Commercial            -                Office Commercial (OC)
                                        -                Service Commercial
                                                         (SC)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        -                Central Downtown
                                                         Commercial (CDC)
                                        -                Community Commercial
                  Central and Community                  (CC)
CC                Commercial            -                Office Commercial (OC)
                                        -                Service Commercial
                                                         (SC)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        -                Central Downtown
                                                         Commercial (CDC)
                                        -                Community Commercial
                                                         (CC)
CS                Service Commercial    -                Office Commercial (OC)
                                        -                Service Commercial
                                                         (SC)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        -                Central Downtown
                                                         Commercial (CDC)
                                        -                Neighborhood
                                                         Commercial (NC)
                                        -                Community Commercial
CO                Office Commercial                      (CC)
                                        -                Office Commercial (OC)
                                        -                Service Commercial
                                                         (SC)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        -                Central Downtown
                                                         Commercial (CDC)
                                        -                Neighborhood
                                                         Commercial (NC)
                                        -                Community Commercial
PO                Professional Office                    (CC)
                                        -                Office Commercial (OC)
                                        -                Service Commercial
                                                         (SC)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
Industrial Zones
                                        -                Light Industrial (LI)
ML                Light Industrial      -                Service Commercial
                                                         (SC)
MH                Heavy Industrial      -                Heavy Industrial (HI)
Special Purpose Zones
                                        4 du/ac          Suburban Residential
                  Resource Conservation                  (SR)
RCO               and Open Space        -                Open Space (OS)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        8 du/ac          Low Density
                                                         Residential (LDR)
                                        15 du/ac         Medium Density
                                                         Residential (MDR)
UR                Urban Reserve         -                Light Industrial (LI)
                                        -                Heavy Industrial (HI)
                                        -                Open Space (OS)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
                                        -                Community Buffer
Combining Zones
FW                Floodway              -                Open Space (OS)
                                        -                Community Buffer
FF                Flood Fringe          -                Open Space (OS)
                                        -                Community Buffer
                                        4 du/ac          Suburban Residential
                                                         (SR)
                                        8 du/ac          Low Density
                                                         Residential (LDR)
                                        15 du/ac         Medium Density
                                                         Residential (MDR)
                                        29 du/ac         High Density
                                                         Residential (HDR)
                                        -                Central Downtown
                  Planned Unit                           Commercial (CDC)
PUD               Development (PUD)     -                Neighborhood
                                                         Commercial (NC)
                                        -                Community Commercial
                                                         (CC)
                                        -                Office Commercial (OC)
                                        -                Service Commercial
                                                         (SC)
                                        -                Light Industrial (LI)
                                        -                Heavy Industrial (HI)
                                        -                Public/Institutional
                                                         Facility (PI)
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.06.030: EFFECT OF ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this Zoning Code:
   A.   Construction and Use Limitation. No structure or part thereof shall be
erected, altered, added to, or enlarged, nor shall any site or structure be
used, designated, or intended to be used for any purpose, or in any manner
other than what is required by this Zoning Code.
   B.   Use of Abutting Parcels. Two (2) or more abutting parcels may be used
as though a single parcel. However, there shall not exist on any part thereof
any structure or improvement which depends for compliance with this Title upon
the same being treated as a single parcel. Such use of parcels shall first be
approved by the Community Development Director, who, based on their discretion,
may require one of more of the following:
      1.   Recordation of cross-access agreement;
      2.   Cross-parking agreement;
      3.   Common driveway easement; and/or
      4.   Maintenance agreement. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.06.040: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Adoption. The City Council hereby ratifies the Official Zoning Map,
which is on file with the Community Development Department. Such ratification
is deemed adoption of the Official Zoning Map. This Zoning Code, together with
the Official Zoning Map, is adopted in compliance with current State planning,
zoning, and development laws. The Official Zoning Map is hereby incorporated
into this Zoning Code by reference as though it were fully included here. Any
additional maps (e.g., setback map, height map, etc.) adopted shall also be a
part of this Zoning Code by reference.
   B.   Zoning Map Contents. The boundaries, designations, and locations of the
zones established by this Zoning Code shall be shown upon the Official Zoning
Map.
   C.   Divisions. For purposes of convenience and identification, the Official
Zoning Map may be divided into parts and subparts, which may be separately
shown or employed for purposes of amending the Official Zoning Map or any
official reference thereto.
   D.   Zoning Map Amendments. Amendments to the existing boundaries of any
identified zoning district shall be made by ordinance in compliance with
applicable provisions of this Title. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.06.050: UNCERTAINTY OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   General. Whenever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of a
district as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following regulations shall
control:
      1.   Where a boundary line is indicated as following a street, alley,
railroad right of way, drainage channel, or other watercourse, the centerline
of such street, alley, railroad right of way, drainage channel or other
watercourse shall be considered to be the boundary line.
      2.   Where a boundary line is indicated as following a parcel line, it
shall be construed as following such parcel line or property ownership line.
      3.   Where a boundary line is not indicated as following a street or
alley and does not follow or coincide approximately with a parcel line, the
boundary line shall be determined using the scale designated on the Official
Zoning Map.
      4.   Where further uncertainty of a zoning district boundary exists, the
Community Development Director shall determine the location of the boundary in
question in compliance with Section
10.04.030 (Procedures for Interpretation).
   B.   Right-of-Way Abandonment. All territory which undergoes vacation of a
public street, alley, or railroad right-of-way shall immediately become
classified the same as the property abutting the street, alley, or railroad
right-of-way. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.06.060: CLASSIFICATION OF ANNEXED PARCELS:
Where property to be annexed to the City was classified previously by the City
under prezoning provisions of state law and this Zoning Code, such prezoning
classification shall become effective at the same time that the annexation
becomes effective. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
ARTICLE 2. ZONES, ALLOWABLE USES, AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10.10
RESIDENTIAL ZONES (RE, R-1-12, R-1-9, R-1-7, R-1-6, R-1(SP), MDR, HDR)
SECTION:
10.10.010: Purpose And Intent Of Residential Zones
10.10.020: Land Use Regulations And Allowable Uses
10.10.030: Development Standards
10.10.040: General Provisions
10.10.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT OF RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
   A.   RE - Residential Estate Zone District. The Residential Estate Zone
District (RE Zone District) is designed to serve as a transitional area between
the expanding urban growth areas and agricultural lands that surround the City.
The RE Zone District is characterized by a mixture of single-unit residential
dwellings, missing middle housing types (i.e., two-unit and three-unit
dwellings), and agricultural activities. The maximum residential density for
the RE Zone District is four (4) dwelling units per acre. The RE Zone District
is further established for the following purposes:
      1.   To protect active farming enterprises and natural resources
surrounding the City and further avoid potential premature conversion of
agricultural land;
      2.   To provide a buffer area between urban and those areas reserved for
continued agricultural production, to lessen potential conflicts between
development and agriculture; and
      3.   To provide a lifestyle and living area which combines the advantages
of both urban and rural settings.
   B.   R-1 - Low Density Residential Zone Districts. The Low Density
Residential Zone Districts are designed to allow a mixture of housing types and
densities in newly developing and predominantly low-density residential areas
of the City. These Zone Districts allow one-unit dwellings and encourage
missing middle housing types (i.e., two-unit and three-unit dwellings), as well
as complimentary human services land uses on a variety of parcel sizes. The R-
1 Zone Districts are categorized by minimum parcel size as follows: (R-1(SP),
R-1-6, R-1-7, R-1-9, and R-1-12). The allowed residential density in the R-
1 Zone Districts ranges from one (1) to eight (8) dwelling units per acres. The
R-1 Zone Districts implement the Suburban Residential (SR), Low Density
Residential (LDR), Medium Density Residential (MDR), and Public/Institutional
Facility (PI) land use designations in the General Plan.
   C.   MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone District. The Medium Density
Residential Zone District (MDR Zone District) provides areas in the City which
allow a range of medium residential development types. The MDR Zone District
allows for a mixture of two-, three-, and multi-unit dwellings and
complimentary human services land uses on a variety of parcel sizes. The
maximum residential density for the MDR Zone District is fifteen (15) dwelling
units per acre. The MDR Zone District implements the Medium Density Residential
(MDR) and Public/Institutional Facility (PI) land use designations in the
General Plan.
   D.   HDR - High Density Residential Zone District. The High Density
Residential Zone District (HDR Zone District) is intended primarily for areas
of compact high-density housing development. The HDR Zone District allows for a
variety of residential opportunities including two-, three-, and multi-unit
dwellings, as well as complimentary human services land uses on a variety of
parcel sizes. The maximum residential density for the MDR Zone District is
twenty-nine (29) dwelling units per acre. Single-unit dwellings are not allowed
in the HDR Zone District. The HDR Zone District implements the High Density
Residential (HDR) and Public/Institutional Facility (PI) land use designations
in the General Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.10.020: LAND USE REGULATIONS AND ALLOWABLE USES:
   A.   Table 10.10-A Land Use Regulations - Residential Zones. Table 10.10-A
(Land Use Regulations - Residential Zones) identifies the allowed land uses
within each of the residential zone districts, and the permit required to
establish each land use.
   B.   Uses Not Listed. Land uses not listed in Table 10.10-A (Land Use
Regulations - Residential Zones) are not allowed, in compliance with Subsection
10.10.040 .A (Land Use Not Listed is Not Allowed), except as otherwise
established in Subsection
10.10.040 .B (Community Development Director Determination).
   C.   Specific Use Regulations. The far-right column in Table 10.10-A (Land
Use Regulations - Residential Zones) indicates additional regulations that
apply to the specific land use listed. Land use regulations in other sections
of this Zoning Code may also apply.
   D.   Zone Clearance. In addition to the permit requirements established in
Table 10.10-A (Land Use Regulations - Residential Zones), issuance of a Zone
Clearance may be required before the establishment of a land use, in compliance
with
Chapter 10.82  (Zone Clearance).
   E.   Site Plan and Design Review. In addition to the permit requirements
established in Table 10.10-A (Land Use Regulations - Residential Zones), Site
Plan Review may be required before the establishment of a land use, in
compliance with
Chapter 10.96  (Site Plan Review).
Table 10.10-A
Land Use Regulations - Residential Zones
Key: P = Allowed by Right; (-) = Not Allowed; C = Conditional Use Permit
         Permit Requirement by Zone
            R-1(SP )
Land Use    R-1-6                   Additional Regulations
         RE R-1-7    MDR HDR
            R-1-9
            R-1-12
Table 10.10-A
Land Use Regulations - Residential Zones
Key: P = Allowed by Right; (-) = Not Allowed; C = Conditional Use Permit
                              Permit Requirement by Zone
                                 R-1(SP )
Land Use                         R-1-6                   Additional Regulations
                              RE R-1-7    MDR HDR
                                 R-1-9
                                 R-1-12
   Agriculture, Resource, and Open Space Uses
Agriculture, Horticulture     P  -        -   -
Agriculture, Horticulture     P  -        -   -           
Beekeeping                    P  -        -   -           
Horse Stable                  P  -        -   -           
Wildlife Preserve             P  -        -   -           
   Human Services Uses
Community Care Facility,      C  C        C   C           
Large (7 or more persons)
Community Care Facility,      P  P        P   P           
Small (up to 6 persons)
Daycare Center                C  C        C   C           
Emergency Shelter             -  -        -   -          Section
                                                         10.50.060
Family Day Care Home          P  P        P   P           
Hospital                      P  P        P   P           
Low Barrier Navigation Center -  -        P   P           
   Infrastructure, Communication, and Transportation Uses
Utility Facility and          P  P        P   P          Section
Infrastructure                                           10.50.190
Telecommunication Facility    P  P        P   P          Section 10.50.200
   Public and Quasi-Public Uses
Public and Quasi-Public Uses  P  P        P   P           
   Recreation, Education, and Public Assembly Uses
Country Club                  C  -        -   -           
Golf Course                   C  -        -   -           
Park and Playground           P  P        P   P           
Place of Assembly             C  C        C   C           
School, Private               P  P        P   P           
   Residential Uses
Accessory Structure,          P  P        P   P          Chapter 10.32
Residential
Accessory Use, Residential    P  P        P   P           
Agricultural Employee Housing P  -        P   P           
Boarding and Rooming House    C  C        P   P           
Dwelling, Accessory Dwelling  P  P        P   P          Chapter 10.52
Unit (ADU)
Dwelling, Junior Accessory    P  P        P   P          Chapter 10.54
Dwelling Unit (JADU)
Dwelling, Manufactured Home/  P  P        P   P          Section
Mobile Home                                              10.50.120
Dwelling, Multi-Unit          C  C        P   P          Chapter 10.56
Dwelling, Single-Unit         P  P        -   -           
Dwelling, Three-Unit          P  P        P   P           
Dwelling, Two-Unit            P  P        P   P           
Employee Housing, Large       P  C        C   C           
(7 or more employees)
Employee Housing, Small       P  P        P   P           
(up to 6 employees)
Group Housing, Large          P  C        C   C           
(7 or more persons)
Group Housing, Small          P  P        P   P           
(up to 6 persons)
Guest Quarters                P  P        -   -           
Home Occupation               P  P        P   P          Section 10.84
Marijuana Cultivation,        P  P        P   P           
Personal Use
Mobile Home Park              P  P        P   P          Section
                                                         10.50.110
Planned Unit Development      C  C        C   C          Chapter 10.20
(PUD)
Single Room Occupancy (SRO)   -  -        -   P          Section
                                                         10.50.070
Supportive Housing            P  P        P   P          Section
                                                         10.50.080
Transitional Housing          P  P        P   P          Section
                                                         10.50.080
   Retail, Service, and Office Uses
Bed and Breakfast Inn         P  C        -   -          Section
                                                         10.50.030
Kennel                        C  -        -   -           
Roadside Stand                P  -        -   -           
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.10.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Density Bonuses and Concessions. In addition to the development
standards established in this Chapter, qualifying land uses and projects shall
be entitled to additional density bonuses, concessions, and/or incentives in
compliance with Section
10.50.050  (Density Bonus and Concessions for Affordable Housing).
   B.   Table 10.10-B Development Standards - Residential Zones. Subdivisions,
new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land uses and
structures, shall be designed, constructed, and established in compliance with
the requirements in Table 10.10-B (Development Standards - Residential Zones).
   C.   Specific Use Regulations. The far-right column in Table 10.10-B
(Development Standards - Residential Zones) indicates additional regulations
that apply to the specific development feature or zone listed. Development
standards in other sections of this Zoning Code may also apply.
   D.   Other Applicable Regulations. The "Other Applicable Regulations"
section of Table 10.10-B (Development Standards - Residential Zones) indicates
the location of additional development standards that apply to the residential
zones. Other regulations in this Zoning Code may also apply.
Table 10.10-B
Development Standards - Residential Zones
                    Residential Zone Districts                  Additional
Development Feature RE R-1-12 R-1-9 R-1-7 R-1-6 R-1(SP) MDR HDR Regulations
Table 10.10-B
Development Standards - Residential Zones
Development Residential Zone Districts                                              Additional
Feature     RE       R-1-12   R-1-9    R-1-7    R-1-6    R-1(SP)  MDR      HDR      Regulations

   General
            1 to 4   1 to 8   4 to 8   4 to 8   4 to 8   4 to 8   8-15     15-29
Density     Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling Dwelling
Range       Units    Units    Units    Units    Units    Units    Units    Units
            per Acre per Acre per Acre per Acre per Acre per Acre per Acre per Acre
Parcel
Coverage    45%      45%      45%      45%      45%      45%      60%      75%      Section
(max.                                                                               10.30.020
percent)
Parcel Area 30,000   11,000   8,000    6, 000   5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
(min.)      sq. ft.  sq. ft.  sq. ft.  sq. ft.  sq. ft.  sq. ft.  sq. ft.  sq. ft.
Distance
between     25 ft.   N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A
Structures
(min.)
Primary
Structure                                                                           Section
Building    40 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   50 ft.   75 ft.   10.30.030
Height
maximum
Accessory
Structure                                                                           Chapter
Building    20 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   35 ft.   35 ft.   10.32
Height
Maximum
   Parcel Dimensions
Parcel
Width
(min.),     175 ft.  110 ft.  80 ft.   70 ft.   50 ft.   60 ft.   50 ft.   50 ft.
Interior
Parcel
Parcel
Width
(min.),     175 ft.  115 ft.  85 ft.   75 ft.   55 ft.   65 ft.   50 ft.   50 ft.
Corner
Parcel
Parcel
Width
(min.),
Reverse     150 ft.  110 ft.  80 ft.   70 ft.   50 ft.   60 ft.   40 ft.   40 ft.
Corner/
Cul-de-sac
Parcel
Parcel
Depth
(min.),     150 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  80 ft.   100 ft.  100 ft.
Interior
Parcel
Parcel
Depth
(min.),     150 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  85 ft.   100 ft.  80 ft.
Corner
Parcel
Parcel
Depth
(min.),
Reverse     150 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  100 ft.  85 ft.   100 ft.  80 ft.
Corner/
Cul-de-sac
Parcel
   Setbacks
Front Yard
Setback     40 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.   10 ft.   15 ft.   15 ft.
(min.)
Front Yard
Garage      40 ft.   25 ft.   25 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   N/A      N/A
Setback
(min.)
Front yard
curved lot  25 ft.   25 ft.   25 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   N/A      N/A
and cul-de-
sac minimum
Side Yard                                                                           Section.
Setback                                                                             10.10.040
(min.),     20 ft.   5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    B
Interior                                                                            Section
Parcel                                                                              10.10.040
                                                                                    C.
Side Yard                                                                           Section
Garage                                                                              10.10.040
Setback,    20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   20 ft.   N/A      N/A      B.
corner lot                                                                          Section
(street                                                                             10.10.040
side) min.                                                                          C
                                                                                    Section
Side Yard                                                                           10.10.040
Setback,    20 ft.   10 ft.   10 ft.   5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    B.
corner lot                                                                          Section
(min.)                                                                              10.10.040
                                                                                    C.
                                                                                    Section
Rear Yard                                                                           10.10.040
Setback     5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    5 ft.    B.
(min.)                                                                              Section
                                                                                    10.10.040
                                                                                    C.
   Other Applicable Regulations
   Land Use or Development Feature           Chapter or Section Cross reference
Height Measurements and Exceptions              Section
                                                10.30.030
Setback Measurements and Exceptions             Section
                                                10.30.040
Setback Exchange                                Section
                                                10.30.050
Corner Cutoff Areas                             Section
                                                10.30.060
Fences, Walls, and Hedges                       Chapter 10.34
Landscaping Standards                           Chapter 10.36
Parking and Loading                             Chapter 10.38
Sign Regulations                                Chapter 10.40
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU)                  Chapter 10.52
Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADU)          Chapter 10.54
Multi-Unit Dwelling Design Standards            Chapter 10.56
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.10.040: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   RE Zone District. In addition to the standards established in this
Chapter and Zoning Code, land uses and development in the RE Zone District
shall comply with the following general provisions:
      1.   Right to Farm and Agricultural Effect Advisory. Parcels adjacent to
commercial agricultural production areas within RE Zone District may be
subjected to inconvenience, discomfort, and the possibility of injury to
property and health arising from normal and accepted agricultural practices and
operations, including, but not limited to noise, odor, dust; the operation of
machinery of any kind including aircraft; the storage and disposal of manure;
the application of fertilizers, herbicides, and pesticides. Owners, residents,
and users of property within RE Zone District should, therefore, be prepared to
accept these conditions, and are hereby placed on official notice that "right
to farm" provisions within this Zoning Code may bar them from obtaining a legal
judgment against such normal agricultural operations.
      2.   Agricultural Buffer. A minimum one hundred-foot (100') buffer
between new residential development and existing agricultural operations is
required as an appropriate transitional space between urban and agricultural
land uses to facilitate continued agricultural operations and minimize
agricultural effects. The buffer shall be measured from the property line
adjoining the agricultural use to any building used for human habitation.
      3.   Coops, Pens, Cages, and Structures Used to House Animals. Coops,
pens, cages, and other structures used to house animals, shall be located a
minimum of twenty-five feet (25') away from any structure(s) used for human
habitation or side yard property line.
      4.   Analysis of Impacts on Agricultural Activities and Enterprises. To
protect active agricultural enterprises and natural resources surrounding the
City while avoiding potential premature conversion of agricultural land, the
environmental review for all proposed projects adjacent to existing
agricultural activities and enterprises shall include, and not be limited to,
analyzing the potential impacts specifically created through agricultural use,
traffic generation, groundwater contamination, stormwater drainage disposal
and/or the deterioration of air quality.
   B.   R-1 Low Density Residential Zone Districts. In addition to the
standards established in this Chapter and Zoning Code, land uses and
development in the R-1 Zone Districts shall comply with the following general
provisions:
      1.   Minimum Parcel Dimension Reduction. Each site shall have not less
than the minimum area for a single parcel as established in Table 10.10.B
(Development Standards - Residential Zones), except that those sites which
front on a cul-de-sac or street intersection may have a frontage of not less
than forty feet (40'), provided that the width of the site as measured along
the front yard setback line is at least fifty feet (50').
      2.   Minimum Parcel Area Reduction. A maximum of forty percent (40%) of
the parcels in a subdivision in any R-1 Zone District may be reduced by a
maximum of ten percent (10%) of the minimum site area, provided, the average
area of all parcels in the subdivision is equal to or greater than the minimum
area for a single parcel as established in Table 10.10.B (Development Standards
- Residential Zones).
      3.   Alternative Determination of Front Yard Setback. On a parcel located
between parcels improved with structures where such structures are set back
less than the minimum distance required by this Chapter, the minimum front yard
setback shall be the average depth of the front yards on the improved parcels
immediately adjoining the side lines of the parcel.
      4.   Additional Side Yard Setback Required. In any R-1 Zone District
except for R-1(SP), where construction involves more than one story, the side
yard shall be increased five feet (5') for each additional story; provided,
however, that the side yard on the street side of a corner lot, that is not a
reverse corner lot, need not be greater than five feet (5').
   C.   MDR and HDR Zone Districts. In addition to the standards established in
this Chapter and Zoning Code, land uses and development in the MDR and HDR Zone
Districts shall comply with the following general provisions:
      1.   Additional Side and Rear Yard Setback Required. In addition to the
side yard and rear yard setback standards established in Table 10.10-B
(Development Standards - Residential Zones), parcels in the MDR or HDR Zone
Districts shall provide additional setback distances in compliance with the
following:
         a.   Side Yard Setback. When located adjacent to an R-1 Zone District,
the side yard setback of an MDR or HDR Zone District parcel shall be increased
by five feet (5') for each additional story over one story, up to four stories.
For example, a three-story structure would have to be setback an additional
ten-feet (10') from the established side yard setback line. See Figure 10.10-1
(Additional Side and Rear Setback Measurement).
         b.   Rear Yard Setback. When located adjacent to an R-1 Zone District,
the rear yard setback of an MDR or HDR Zone District parcel shall be increased
by five feet (5') for each additional story over one (1) story, up to four (4)
stories. For example, a three-story structure would have to be setback an
additional ten-feet (10') from the established rear yard setback line. See
Figure 10.10-1 (Additional Side and Rear Setback Measurement).
Figure 10.10-1
Additional Side and Rear Setback Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2731.gif]
 
      2.   Garages and Carport Location. Garages and/or carports on the street
side yard of a corner parcel or reverse corner parcel in the either MDR or HDR
Zone Districts shall be set back a minimum of twenty-five feet (25‘) from the
property line.
      3.   Open Space. New projects in the MDR and HDR Zone Districts shall
comply with the open space standards established in
Chapter 10.56  (Multi-Unit Dwelling Design Standards). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
CHAPTER 10.12
COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE ZONES (CN, CC, CS, CO, PO)
SECTION:
10.12.010: Purpose And Intent Of Commercial And Office Zones
10.12.020: Land Use Regulations And Allowable Uses
10.12.030: Development Standards
10.12.040: General Provisions
10.12.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT OF COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE ZONES:
   A.   CN - Neighborhood Commercial Zone District. The Neighborhood Commercial
Zone District (CN Zone District) is intended exclusively for the provision of
retail and personal service facilities to satisfy the convenience goods needs
of the consumer relatively close to their place of residence, work, and or
recreation.
   B.   CC - Central and Community Commercial Zone District. The Central and
Community Commercial Zone District (CC Zone District) is intended to be applied
both to the central commercial core of the City and to community commercial
areas outside of the central core, as designated by the General Plan. These
areas constitute the primary commercial districts of the community where a wide
range of retail, financial, governmental, professional, business, service and
entertainment activities and uses are encouraged to serve the entire community.
Community commercial areas outside of the City's commercial core are intended
to be developed into unified centers wherever possible.
   C.   CS - Service Commercial Zone District. The Service Commercial Zone
District (CS Zone District) is intended primarily for establishments engaged in
general wholesale or heavy commercial uses, such as servicing equipment,
materials, and products, but which do not require the manufacturing,
assembling, packaging, or processing of articles or merchandise for
distribution and retail sale. Land requirements for most commercial service
uses generally dictates its application along arterial streets of the City
which generally lie close to central commercial and industrial districts, in
accordance with the General Plan.
   D.   CO - Office Commercial Zone District. The Office Commercial Zone
District (CO Zone District) is intended to provide for the development of an
integrated administrative, business, medical, professional and commercial
office district where related and complementary types of land uses and
facilities are located in areas adjacent to or in the vicinity of residential
land uses and to act as a land use and architectural buffer between residential
neighborhoods and more intense uses of land.
   E.   PO - Professional Office Zone District. The Professional Office Zone
District (PO Zone District) is intended to provide opportunities for the
location of administrative, business, medical, professional and general offices
in close relationship to one another in areas designated for combined
professional office use, including high density use, by the General Plan; to
provide adequate space to meet the needs of such offices for off street parking
and loading space; and to protect offices from noise, disturbances, traffic
hazards and other objectionable influences which would adversely affect
professional and business practices being carried on. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.12.020: LAND USE REGULATIONS AND ALLOWABLE USES:
   A.   Table 10.12-A Land Use Regulations - Commercial and Office Zones. Table
10.12-A (Land Use Regulations - Commercial and Office Zones) identifies the
allowed land uses within each of the commercial or office zone districts, and
the permit required to establish each land use.
   B.   Uses Not Listed. Land uses not listed in Table 10.12-A (Land Use
Regulations - Commercial and Office Zones) are not allowed, in compliance with
Subsection
10.10.040 .A (Land Use Not Listed is Not Allowed), except as otherwise
established in Subsection
10.10.040 .B (Community Development Director Determination).
   C.   Specific Use Regulations. The far-right column in Table 10.12-A (Land
Use Regulations - Commercial and Office Zones) indicates additional regulations
that apply to the specific land use listed. Land use regulations in other
sections of this Zoning Code may also apply.
   D.   Zone Clearance. In addition to the permit requirements established in
Table 10.12-A (Land Use Regulations - Commercial and Office Zones), issuance of
a Zone Clearance may be required before the establishment of a land use, in
compliance with
Chapter 10.82  (Zone Clearance).
   E.   Site Plan and Design Review. In addition to the permit requirements
established in Table 10.12-A (Land Use Regulations - Commercial and Office
Zones), Site Plan Review may be required before the establishment of a land
use, in compliance with
Chapter 10.96  (Site Plan Review).
Table 10.12-A
Land Use Regulations - Commercial and Office Zones
Key: P = Allowed by Right; (-) = Not Allowed; C = Conditional Use Permit
Land Use Permit Requirement by Zone Additional Regulations
         CN CC CS CO P O
Table 10.12-A
Land Use Regulations - Commercial and Office Zones
Key: P = Allowed by Right; (-) = Not Allowed; C = Conditional Use Permit
Land Use                      Permit Requirement by Zone Additional Regulations
                              CN CC CS CO P O
   Human Services Uses
Ambulance Service             -  P  P  P  P               
Cemetery                      -  -  C  -  -               
Community Care Facility,      -  -  -  P  P               
Large (7 or more persons)
Community Care Facility,      -  -  -  P  P               
Small (up to 6 persons)
Daycare Center                C  C  C  C  C               
Emergency Shelter             P  P  P  P  P              Section
                                                         10.50.060
Family Day Care Home          -  -  -  -  -
Hospital                      P  P  P  P  P
Low Barrier Navigation Center P  P  P  P  P
   Industrial, Manufacturing, and Processing Uses
Brewery, Distillery, Winery   C  C  C  -  -
with or without Tasting Room
Industrial, Minor             -  -  C  -  -
Storage Facility, Personal    -  -  P  -  -
   Infrastructure, Communication, and Transportation Uses
Parking Facility              P  P  P  P  P
Transit Station and Terminal  P  P  P  -  -
Utility Facility and          P  P  P  P  P              Section
Infrastructure                                           10.50.190
Telecommunication Facility    P  P  P  P  P              Section 10.50.200
   Public and Quasi-Public Uses
Public and Quasi-Public Uses  P  P  P  P  P               
   Recreation, Education, and Public Assembly Uses
Card Room                     -  C  C  -  -               
Commercial Recreation and     P  P  P  -  -               
Entertainment, Indoor
Commercial Recreation and
Entertainment, Cinema or      C  C  C  -  -               
Theater
Gym and Athletic Club         P  P  P  P  P               
Museum                        P  P  P  -  -               
Place of Assembly             P  P  P  P  P               
School, Private               P  P  P  P  P               
School, Technical and         -  P  -  P  P               
Vocational
Studio - Art, Dance, Martial  P  P  P  -  -               
Arts, Music
Studio - Broadcasting and     P  P  P  P  P               
Recording
   Residential Uses
Caretaker's Residence         -  P  P  -  -               
Mixed-use                     P  P  P  P  P              Section
                                                         10.50.090
Single Room Occupancy         -  -  P  -  -              Section
                                                         10.50.170
Supportive Housing            P  P  P  P  -              Section
                                                         10.50.080
Transitional Housing          P  P  P  P  -              Section
                                                         10.50.080
   Retail, Service, and Office Uses
Accessory Structure, Non-     P  P  P  P  P              Chapter 10.32
Residential
Accessory Use, Nonresidential P  P  P  P  P              Chapter 10.32
Alcohol Beverage Sales,       C  C  C  C  C              Section
Accessory                                                10.50.020
Alcohol Beverage Sales,       C  C  C  -  -              Section
Standalone                                               10.50.020
Auction House                 C  C  P  C  -
Automatic Telling Machine     P  P  P  P  P
(ATM), Drive-Through
Automatic Telling Machine     P  P  P  P  P
(ATM), Walk-Up
Bank and Financial            P  P  P  P  P
Institution
Bar                           C  C  C  -  -
Body Art Facility             -  -  C  -  -              Section
                                                         10.50.040
Building Material Sales and   -  -  P  -  -
Storage
Car Wash                      -  P  P  -  -
Cigar Lounge                  C  C  C  -  -
Drive-in and Drive-through    P  P  P  -  -
Sales
Equipment Sales and Rental    P  P  P  -  -
Facility
Farmer's Market and Multi-    P  P  P  -  -
Tenant Market
Fixed Vending Establishment   P  P  P  P  P              Section
                                                         10.50.120
Funeral and Burial Services,
Body Preparation and          -  -  C  C  C
Cremation
Funeral and Burial Services,  -  -  P  P  P
Funeral Home
Health or Day Spa             P  P  P  P  P
Home and Business Services    P  P  P  P  P
Hotel/Motel                   P  P  P  P  P
Kennel                        -  -  C  -  -
Office, Medical               P  P  P  P  P
Office, Professional          P  P  P  P  P
Personal Service, General     P  P  P  P  P
Printing Shop                 P  P  P  P  P
Restaurant                    P  P  P  P  P              Section
                                                         10.50.160
Restaurant, Outside Dining    P  P  P  P  P
Retail Sales, Appliances and  P  P  P  -  -
Furniture
Retail Sales, Convenience     P  P  P  -  -
Store
Retail Sales, General         P  P  P  P  P
Retail Sales, Home            P  P  P  -  -
Improvement and Garden Supply
Retail Sales, Secondhand      P  P  P  -  -
Retail Sales, Smoke Shop and/ -  -  -  -  -
or Tobacco Store
Tasting Room                  C  C  C  -  -
Veterinary Clinic, without    -  P  P  -  P
boarding services
   Transportation and Communication
Airport, Heliport, and        -  -  -  -  P
Helipad
   Vehicle Oriented Uses
Vehicle Fueling Station       P  P  P  -  -
Vehicle Rental Facility       -  P  P  -  -
Vehicle Repair and Service,   -  -  C  -  -
Major
Vehicle Repair and Service,   P  P  P  -  -
Minor
Vehicle Sales                 -  P  P  -  -
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.12.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Table 10.12-B Development Standards - Commercial and Office Zones.
Subdivisions, new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land
uses and structures, shall be designed, constructed, and established in
compliance with the requirements in Table 10.12-B (Development Standards -
Commercial and Office Zones).
   B.   Specific Use Regulations. The far-right column in Table 10.12-B
(Development Standards - Commercial and Office Zones) indicates additional
regulations that apply to the specific development feature or zone listed.
Development standards in other sections of this Zoning Code may also apply.
   C.   Other Applicable Regulations. The "Other Applicable Regulations"
section of Table 10.12-B (Development Standards - Commercial and Office Zones)
indicates the location of additional development standards that apply to the
commercial and office zones. Other regulations in this Zoning Code may also
apply.
Table 10.12.B
Development Standards - Commercial and Office Zones
Development Feature Commercial and Office Zone Districts Additional Regulations
                    CN CC CS CO PO
Table 10.12.B
Development Standards - Commercial and Office Zones
Development Commercial and Office Zone Districts                    Additional
Feature     CN         CC         CS         CO         PO          Regulations

   General
Parcel      No         No         No         No
Coverage    Limitatio  Limitatio  Limitatio  Limitatio  No          Section
(max.       n          n          n          n          Limitatio n 10.30.020
percent)
Parcel Area No Minimum No Minimum No Minimum No Minimum No Minimum
(min.)
Distance    No         No         No         No         No
between     Limitatio  Limitatio  Limitatio  Limitatio  Limitatio
Structures  ns         ns         ns         ns         ns
(min.)
Building                                                            Section
height      75 ft.     75 ft.     75 ft.     75         75 ft.      10.30.030
maximum
   Parcel Dimensions
Parcel
Width
(min.),     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
Interior
Parcel
Parcel
Width
(min.),     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
Corner
Parcel
Parcel
Width
(min.),
Reverse     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
Corner/
Cul-de-sac
Parcel
Parcel
Depth
(min.),     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
Interior
Parcel
Parcel
Depth
(min.),     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
Corner
Parcel
Parcel
Depth
(min.),
Reverse     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
Corner/
Cul-de-sac
Parcel
   Setbacks
Front Yard
Setback     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
(min.)
Front yard
curved lot  0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
and cul-de-
sac minimum
Side Yard
Setback
(min.),     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
Interior
Parcel
Rear Yard
Setback     0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.      0 ft.
(min.)
Other Applicable Regulations
Land Use or Development Feature   Chapter or Section Cross Reference
Height Measurements and           Section
Exceptions                        10.30.030
Setback Measurements and          Section
Exceptions                        10.30.030
Setback Exchange                  Section
                                  10.30.050
Corner Cutoff Areas               Section
                                  10.30.060
Fences, Walls, and Hedges         Chapter 10.34
Landscaping Standards             Chapter 10.36
Parking and Loading               Chapter 10.38
Sign Regulations                  Chapter 10.40
Multi-Unit Dwelling Design        Chapter 10.56
Standards
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.12.040: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Location of Activities. In all commercial and office zone districts,
all businesses, services and processes shall be conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed structure, except for off street parking and off-street
loading areas, gasoline service stations, outdoor dining areas, nurseries,
garden shops, Christmas tree sales lots, bus depots, and transit stations,
public utility stations and used car sales, and new car sales.
   B.   Performance Standards. No land use shall be allowed and no activity,
equipment, or materials shall be used which are determined by the Community
Development Director to be objectionable to persons living or working in the
vicinity by reasons of odor, fumes, dust, smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, water
carried waste, noise, vibration, illumination, glare or unsightliness or to
involve any hazard of fire or explosion. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.14
INDUSTRIAL ZONES (ML, MH)
SECTION:
10.14.010: Purpose Of Chapter
10.14.020: Purpose And Intent Of Industrial Zones
10.14.030: Land Use Regulations And Allowable Uses
10.14.040: Development Standards
10.14.050: General Provisions
10.14.010: PURPOSE OF CHAPTER:
The standards established in this Chapter are designed to achieve the following
purposes:
   A.   To reserve appropriately located areas for various types of industrial
plants and related activities;
   B.   To protect areas appropriate for industrial use from intrusion by
residences and other inharmonious uses;
   C.   To protect residential and commercial properties and to protect
nuisance free nonhazardous industrial uses from noise, odor, dust, dirt, smoke,
vibration, heat, glare, fire, explosion, noxious fumes, radiation and other
hazardous and objectionable influences incidental to certain industrial uses;
   D.   To provide opportunities for certain types of industrial plants to
concentrate in mutually beneficial relationships to each other;
   E.   To provide adequate space to meet the needs of modern industrial
development, including off street parking and truck loading areas; and
   F.   To provide industrial employment opportunities for residents of the
City. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.14.020: PURPOSE AND INTENT OF INDUSTRIAL ZONES:
   A.   ML - Light Industrial Zone District. The Light Industrial Zone District
(ML Zone District) is applied to areas appropriate for light industrial and
manufacturing, warehousing, offices, and assembly uses. Land uses allowed in
the ML zone will not create objectionable noise, smoke, odor, dust, noxious
gases, glare, heat, vibration, or industrial wastes. The ML Zone District
implements the Light Industrial (LI) and Service Commercial (SC) land use
designations in the General Plan.
   B.   MH - Heavy Industrial Zone District. The Heavy Industrial Zone District
(MH Zone District) is applied to areas appropriate for a wider variety of land
uses that are more land-intensive manufacturing uses than allowed in the ML
Zone District. The MH Zone District implements the Heavy Industrial (HI) land
use designation in the General Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.14.030: LAND USE REGULATIONS AND ALLOWABLE USES:
   A.   Table 10.14-A Land Use Regulations - Industrial Zones. Table 10.14-A
(Land Use Regulations - Industrial Zones) identifies the allowed land uses
within each of the industrial zone districts, and the permit required to
establish each land use.
   B.   Uses Not Listed. Land uses not listed in Table 10.14-A (Land Use
Regulations - Industrial Zones) are not allowed, in compliance with Subsection
10.10.040 .A (Land Use Not Listed is Not Allowed), except as otherwise
established in Subsection
10.10.040 .B (Community Development Director Determination).
   C.   Specific Use Regulations. The far-right column in Table 10.14-A (Land
Use Regulations - Industrial Zones) indicates additional regulations that apply
to the specific land use listed. Land use regulations in other sections of this
Zoning Code may also apply.
   D.   Zone Clearance. In addition to the permit requirements established in
Table 10.14-A (Land Use Regulations - Industrial Zones), issuance of a Zone
Clearance may be required before the establishment of a land use, in compliance
with
Chapter 10.82  (Zone Clearance).
   E.   Site Plan and Design Review. In addition to the permit requirements
established in Table 10.14-A (Land Use Regulations - Industrial Zones), Site
Plan Review may be required before the establishment of a land use, in
compliance with
Chapter 10.96  (Site Plan Review).
Table 10.14-A
Land Use Regulations - Industrial Zones
Key: P = Allowed by Right; (-) = Not Allowed; C = Conditional Use Permit
Land Use Permit Requirement by Zone Additional Regulations
         ML MH
Table 10.14-A
Land Use Regulations - Industrial Zones
Key: P = Allowed by Right; (-) = Not Allowed; C = Conditional Use Permit
Land Use                      Permit Requirement by Zone Additional Regulations
                              ML MH
   Human Services Uses
Ambulance Service             P  -
Emergency Shelter             P  -                       Section
                                                         10.50.060
Hospital                      P  -
   Industrial, Manufacturing, and Processing Uses
Animal Product Processing     C  P
Brewery, Distillery, Winery   C  C
with or without Tasting Room
Brewery, Distillery, Winery   C  C
without Tasting Room
Contractor Storage Yard       P  P
Industrial, Hazardous         -  C
Industrial, Major             C  P
Industrial, Minor             P  P
Junkyard                      C  P
Recycling Facility, Large     C  P                       Section
Collection                                               10.50.140
Recycling Facility, Light     C  P                       Section
Processing                                               10.50.140
Recycling Facility, Small     P  -                       Section
Collection                                               10.50.140
Recycling Facility, Transfer  C  P                       Section
Station                                                  10.50.140
Refuse Disposal Site          -  C
Salvage and Dismantling       -  P
Facility
Storage Facility, Personal    P  P
Storage Facility, Restricted  -  C
Warehousing and Distribution  P  P
Facility
   Infrastructure, Communication, and Transportation Uses
Parking Facility              P  P
Towing Yard                   P  P
Transit Station and Terminal  P  -
Utility Facility and          P  P                       Section
Infrastructure                                           10.50.190
Vehicle and Freight Terminal  P  P
Telecommunication Facilities  P  P                       Section 10.50.200
   Public and Quasi-Public Uses
Public and Quasi-Public Uses  P  P
   Recreation, Education, and Public Assembly Uses
Card Room                     C  -
Commercial Recreation and     P  -
Entertainment, Indoor
Commercial Recreation and
Entertainment, Cinema or      C  -
Theater
Gym and Athletic Club         P  P
Place of Assembly             P  -
Rifle and Pistol Range        P  P
School, Private               P  -
School, Technical and         P  -
Vocational
Studio - Art, Dance, Martial  P  -
Arts, Music
Studio - Broadcasting and     P  -
Recording
   Residential Uses
Caretaker's Residence         P  -
Mixed-use                     C  -                       Section
                                                         10.50.090
Supportive Housing            P  -
Transitional Housing          P  -
   Retail, Service, and Office Uses
Accessory Structure, Non-     P  P                       Chapter 10.32
Residential
Accessory Use, Nonresidential P  P                       Chapter 10.32
Adult Entertainment Business  -  C
Alcohol Beverage Sales,       C  -                       Section
Accessory                                                10.50.020
Alcohol Beverage Sales,       C  -                       Section
Standalone                                               10.50.020
Auction House                 P  P                        
Automatic Telling Machine     P  P                        
(ATM), Walk-Up
Bank and Financial            P  P                        
Institution
Bar                           C  -                        
Body Art Facility             C  -                       Section
                                                         10.50.040
Building Material Sales and   P  P
Storage
Car Wash                      P  P
Drive-in and Drive-through    P  -
Sales
Equipment Sales and Rental    P  P
Facility
Farmer's Market and Multi-    P  -
Tenant Market
Fixed Vending Establishment   P  C
Funeral and Burial Services,
Body Preparation and          C  -
Cremation
Funeral and Burial Services,  P  -
Funeral Home
Health or Day Spa             P  P
Home and Business Services    P  P
Hotel/Motel                   P  -
Kennel                        C  -
Office, Medical               P  -
Office, Professional          P  P
Personal Service, General     P  -
Printing Shop                 P  -
Research and Development      -  C                       Chapter 10.58
Activities (BSL 1-3)
Research and Development      -  -                       Chapter 10.58
Activities (BSL-4)
Restaurant                    P  -                       Section
                                                         10.50.160
Retail Sales, Appliances and  P  -
Furniture
Retail Sales, Convenience     P  -
Store
Retail Sales, General         P  -
Retail Sales, Home            P  -
Improvement and Garden Supply
Retail Sales, Secondhand      P  -
Retail Sales, Smoke Shop and/ C  -                       Chapter 10.60
or Tobacco Store
Tasting Room                  C  -
Vending Establishment         C  C                       Section
                                                         10.50.120
Veterinary Clinic, with       P  -                        
boarding services
Veterinary Clinic, without    P  -                        
boarding services
   Transportation and Communication
Airport, Heliport, and        P  P                        
Helipad
   Vehicle Oriented Uses
Vehicle Fueling Station       P  -                        
Vehicle Rental Facility       P  -                        
Vehicle Repair and Service,   P  P                        
Major
Vehicle Repair and Service,   P  -                        
Minor
Vehicle Sales                 P  P                        
Vehicle Salvage and           P  P                        
Dismantling Facility
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.14.040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Table 10.14-B Development Standards - Industrial Zones. Subdivisions,
new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land uses and
structures, shall be designed, constructed, and established in compliance with
the requirements in Table 10.14-B (Development Standards - Industrial Zones).
   B.   Specific Use Regulations. The far-right column in Table 10.14-B
(Development Standards - Industrial Zones) indicates additional regulations
that apply to the specific development feature or zone listed. Development
standards in other sections of this Zoning Code may also apply.
   C.   Other Applicable Regulations. The "Other Applicable Regulations"
section of Table 10.14-B (Development Standards - Industrial Zones) indicates
the location of additional development standards that apply to the industrial
zones. Other regulations in this Zoning Code may also apply.
Table 10.14-B
Development Standards - Industrial Zones
Development Standard Industrial Zone Districts  Additional Regulations
                     ML MH
Table 10.14-B
Development Standards - Industrial Zones
Development Standard      Industrial Zone Districts  Additional Regulations
                          ML             MH
   General
Parcel Coverage           No Limitations No Limitations Section
(max. percent)                                          10.30.020
Parcel Area (min.)        No Minimum     1/2 Acre        
Distance between          No Limitations No Limitations  
Structures (min.)
Building height maximum   75 ft.         75 ft.         Section
                                                        10.30.030
   Parcel Dimensions
Parcel Width (min.),      0 ft.          0 ft.           
Interior Parcel
Parcel Width (min.),      0 ft.          0 ft.           
Corner Parcel
Parcel Width (min.),
Reverse Corner/Cul-de-sac 0 ft.          0 ft.           
Parcel
Parcel Depth (min.),      0 ft.          0 ft.           
Interior Parcel
Parcel Depth (min.),      0 ft.          0 ft.           
Corner Parcel
Parcel Depth (min.),
Reverse Corner/Cul-de-sac 0 ft.          0 ft.           
Parcel
   Setbacks|
Front Yard Setback (min.) 0 ft.          0 ft.           
Front yard curved lot and 0 ft.          0 ft.           
cul-de-sac minimum
Side Yard Setback (min.), 0 ft.          0 ft.           
Interior Parcel
Rear Yard Setback (min.)  0 ft.          0 ft.           
   Other Applicable Regulations
   Land Use or Development Feature    Chapter or Section Cross reference
Height Measurements and Exceptions       Section
                                         10.30.030
Setback Measurements and Exceptions      Section
                                         10.30.030
Setback Exchange                         Section
                                         10.30.050
Corner Cutoff Areas                      Section
                                         10.30.060
Fences, Walls, and Hedges                Chapter 10.34
Landscaping Standards                    Chapter 10.36
Parking and Loading                      Chapter 10.38
Sign Regulations                         Chapter 10.40
Multi-Unit Dwelling Design Standards     Chapter 10.56
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.14.050: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Industrial Land Use Exposure. No use shall be permitted and no process,
equipment or materials shall be employed which are determined by the Community
Development Director to be injurious to persons residing or working in the
vicinity by reason of odor, fumes, dust, smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, noise,
vibrations, illumination, glare or heavy truck traffic or to involve any hazard
of fire, explosion or radioactivity or to emit electrical disturbances which
adversely affect commercial or electronic equipment outside the boundaries of
the site.
   B.   Discharging Prohibited. No solid or liquid waste shall be discharged
into a natural watercourse, nor into a public or private sewage disposal system
except in compliance with all applicable water agency(ies) and/or quality
control board regulations.
   C.   Compliance Required. In an ML or MH district, no use shall emit
particulate matter or other air pollutants in excess of the applicable air
pollution emission standards of the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control
District (SJVAPCD), the State or Federal government. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.16
SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONES (RCO, UR)
SECTION:
10.16.010: Purpose And Intent Of Special Purpose Zones
10.16.020: Land Use Regulations And Allowable Uses
10.16.030: Development Standards
10.16.040: General Provisions
10.16.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT OF SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONES:
   A.   RCO - Resource Conservation and Open Space Zone District. The Resource
Conservation and Open Space Zone District (RCO Zone District) is intended to
provide for permanent open spaces in areas of the City which exhibit
significant vegetation, scenic qualities, wildlife or recreation potential, and
which are designated as open space or school and college sites by the General
Plan. The maximum allowed residential density in the RCO Zone District is four
dwelling units per acre. The RCO Zone District implements the Suburban
Residential (SR), Low Density Residential (LDR), Open Space (OS), and Public/
Institutional Facility (PI) land use designations in the General Plan.
   B.   UR - Urban Reserve Zone District. The Urban Reserve Zone District (UR
Zone District) is intended to apply to areas which designated by the General
Plan to be held in reserve for the future urban expansion of low-density
residential, medium-density residential, high density residential, light
industrial, and heavy industrial land uses. The allowed residential density in
the UR Zone District ranges from four (4) to twenty-nine (29) dwelling units
per acre. The UR Zone District implements the Medium Density Residential (MDR),
High Density Residential (HDR), Light Industrial (LI), Heavy Industrial (HI),
Open Space (OS), Public/Institutional Facility (PI), and Community Buffer land
use designations in the General Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.16.020: LAND USE REGULATIONS AND ALLOWABLE USES:
   A.   Table 10.16-A Land Use Regulations - Special Purpose Zones. Table
10.16-A (Land Use Regulations - Special Purpose Zones) identifies the allowed
land uses within each of the special purpose zone districts, and the permit
required to establish each land use.
   B.   Uses Not Listed. Land uses not listed in Table 10.16-A (Land Use
Regulations - Special Purpose Zones) are not allowed, in compliance with
Subsection
10.10.040 .A (Land Use Not Listed is Not Allowed), except as otherwise
established in Subsection
10.10.040 .B (Community Development Director Determination).
   C.   Specific Use Regulations. The far-right column in Table 10.16-A (Land
Use Regulations - Special Purpose Zones) indicates additional regulations that
apply to the specific land use listed. Land use regulations in other sections
of this Zoning Code may also apply.
   D.   Zone Clearance. In addition to the permit requirements established in
Table 10.16-A (Land Use Regulations - Special Purpose Zones), issuance of a
Zone Clearance may be required before the establishment of a land use, in
compliance with
Chapter 10.82  (Zone Clearance).
   E.   Site Plan and Design Review. In addition to the permit requirements
established in Table 10.16-A (Land Use Regulations - Special Purpose Zones),
Site Plan Review may be required before the establishment of a land use, in
compliance with
Chapter 10.96  (Site Plan Review).
Table 10.16-A
Land Use Regulations - Special Purpose Zones
Key: P = Allowed by Right; (-) = Not Allowed; C = Conditional Use Permit
Land Use Permit Requirement by Zone Additional Regulations
         RCO UR
Table 10.16-A
Land Use Regulations - Special Purpose Zones
Key: P = Allowed by Right; (-) = Not Allowed; C = Conditional Use Permit
Land Use                      Permit Requirement by Zone Additional Regulations
                              RCO UR
   Agriculture, Resource, and Open Space Uses
Agriculture, Horticulture     P   P
Beekeeping                    P   P
Horse Stable                  P   -
Wildlife Preserve             P   P
   Human Services Uses
Cemetery                      C   -
Community Care Facility,      P   P
Small (up to 6 persons)
Emergency Shelter             -   P                      Section
                                                         10.50.060
Family Day Care Home          P   -
   Infrastructure, Communication, and Transportation Uses
Utility Facility and          P   P                      Section
Infrastructure                                           10.50.190
Telecommunication Facilities  P   P                      Section 10.50.200
   Public and Quasi-Public Uses
Public and Quasi-Public Uses  P   P
   Recreation, Education, and Public Assembly Uses
Park and Playground           P   P
Place of Assembly             C   C
School, Private               P   P
   Residential Uses
Accessory Structure,          P   -                      Chapter 10.32
Residential
Accessory Use, Residential    P   P                      Chapter 10.32
Agricultural Employee Housing P   P
Dwelling, Accessory Dwelling  P   P                      Chapter 10.52
Unit (ADU)
Dwelling, Junior Accessory    P   P                      Chapter 10.54
Dwelling Unit (JADU)
Dwelling, Manufactured Home/  P   P                      Section
Mobile Home                                              10.50.110
Dwelling, Multi-Unit          -   P                      Chapter 10.56
Dwelling, Single-Unit         P   P
Dwelling, Three-Unit          -   P
Dwelling, Two-Unit            -   P
Guest Quarters                P   P
Home Occupation               P   P                      Section 10.84
Supportive Housing            -   P
Transitional Housing          -   P
   Retail, Service, and Office Uses
Accessory Structure, Non-     P   P                      Chapter 10.32
Residential
Accessory Use, Non-           P   -                      Chapter 10.32
Residential
Auction House                 P   -
Bed and Breakfast Inn         P   -                      Section
                                                         10.50.030
Farmer's Market and Multi-    P   -                       
Tenant Market
Kennel                        C   -                       
Roadside Stand                P   P                       
   Transportation and Communication
Airport, Heliport, and        P   P                       
Helipad
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.16.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Table 10.16-B Development Standards - Special Purpose Zones.
Subdivisions, new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land
uses and structures, shall be designed, constructed, and established in
compliance with the requirements in Table 10.16-B (Development Standards -
Special Purpose Zones).
   B.   Specific Use Regulations. The far-right column in Table 10.16-B
(Development Standards - Special Purpose Zones) indicates additional
regulations that apply to the specific development feature or zone listed.
Development standards in other sections of this Zoning Code may also apply.
   C.   Other Applicable Regulations. The "Other Applicable Regulations"
section of Table 10.16-B (Development Standards - Special Purpose Zones Zones)
indicates the location of additional development standards that apply to the
special purpose zones. Other regulations in this Zoning Code may also apply.
Table 10.16-B
Development Standards - Special Purpose Zones
Development Standard Special Purpose Zone Districts  Additional Regulations
                     RCO UR
Table 10.16-B
Development Standards - Special Purpose Zones
Development Standard  Special Purpose Zone Districts  Additional Regulations
                      RCO            UR
   General
Parcel Coverage       No Limitation  No Limitation       Section
(max. percent)                                           10.30.020  
Parcel Area (min.)    No Minimum     No Minimum
Distance between      No Limitations No Limitations
Structures (min.)
Structure Height      35 ft.         75 ft.              Section
Maximum                                                  10.30.030
   Parcel Dimensions
Parcel Width (min.),  0 ft.          0 ft.
Interior Parcel
Parcel Width (min.),  0 ft.          0 ft.                
Corner Parcel
Parcel Width (min.),
Reverse Corner/ Cul-  0 ft.          0 ft.                
de-sac Parcel
Parcel Depth (min.),  0 ft.          0 ft.                
Interior Parcel
Parcel Depth (min.),  0 ft.          0 ft.                
Corner Parcel
Parcel Depth (min.),
Reverse Corner/ Cul-  0 ft.          0 ft.                
de-sac Parcel
   Setbacks
Front Yard Setback    0 ft.          0 ft.                
(min.)
Front yard curved lot
and cul-de-sac        0 ft.          0 ft.                
minimum
Side Yard Setback
(min.), Interior      0 ft.          0 ft.                
Parcel
Rear Yard Setback     0 ft.          0 ft.                
(min.)
   Other Applicable Regulations
   Land Use or Development FeatureChapter or Section Cross Reference
Height Measurements and Exceptions   Section
                                     10.30.030
Setback Measurements and Exceptions  Section
                                     10.30.040
Setback Exchange                     Section
                                     10.30.050
Corner Cutoff Areas                  Section
                                     10.30.060
Fences, Walls, and Hedges            Chapter 10.34
Landscaping Standards                Chapter 10.36
Parking and Loading                  Chapter 10.38
Sign Regulations                     Chapter 10.40
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU)       Chapter 10.52
Junior Accessory Dwelling Units      Chapter 10.54
(JADU)
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.16.040: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Urban Reserve Zone District Required Conditions. New land uses established in a
UR Zone District shall comply with the following:
   A.   Whenever a new land use as listed in Table 10.16.A (Land Use
Regulations - Special Purpose Zones) is to be established in the UR Zone
District, the Community Development Director shall designate a zoning district
classification for such land use which is consistent with the General Plan and
such use shall be subject to comply with the regulations of the zoning district
so designated as if the use was actually proposed within such district.
   B.   No conditional use shall be allowed and no process, equipment or
materials shall be used which are determined by the Community Development
Director to be objectionable to persons living or working in the vicinity or
injurious to property, crops, livestock or poultry in the vicinity by reason of
odor, fumes, dust, smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, water carried wastes, noise,
vibration, illumination, glare or unsightliness or to involve any hazard of
fire or explosion. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.18
OVERLAY ZONES (FW, FF, PUD)
SECTION:
10.18.010: Flood Hazard Overlay Zone Districts (FW, FF)
10.18.020: Planned Unit Development Overlay Zone District (PUD)
10.18.010: FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY ZONE DISTRICTS (FW, FF):
   A.   Intent of Standards. The standards established in this Chapter are
intended to apply to areas along the Kings River which are subject to flooding,
and where it is therefore necessary to protect people and property from flood
hazards regulations which shall apply in addition to applicable regulations of
the base zoning district applied to affected property, in accordance with
policies of the General Plan.
   B.   Establishment and Purpose of the Flood Hazard Overlay Zone Districts.
The purpose of each flood hazard overlay zone district is as follows:
      1.   FW - Floodway Overlay Zone District. The Floodway Overlay Zone
District (FW Overlay Zone District) is intended for application to all areas
designated by the General Plan as lying within a designated floodway. The FW
Overlay Zone District implements the Open Space (OS) and Community Buffer land
use designations in the General Plan.
      2.   FF - Flood Fringe Overlay Zone District. The Flood Fringe Overlay
Zone District (FF Overlay Zone District) is intended for application to all
areas designated by the General Plan as lying within a flood fringe area. The
FF Overlay Zone District implements the Open Space (OS) and Community Buffer
land use designations in the General Plan.
   C.   General Provisions. The standards established in this Section shall
apply to lands within a FW or FF Overlay Zone District:
      1.   Effect of Other Base Zone District Regulations. All other base zone
district regulations shall apply in combination with either the FW or FF
Overlay Zone district.
      2.   Allowed Land Uses.  Any land use normally allowed in the underlying
zone may be allowed within the FW and FF Overlay Zone District, provided that
the land use is also in compliance with any applicable Airport Land Use Plan
standards.
      3.   Elevated Construction Required. All new development shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with a plan approved by the Building
Official. Said plan shall be prepared to not cause floodwaters to be diverted
onto adjacent properties, increase hazards to property located elsewhere or
otherwise adversely affect other property.
      4.   Floodproofing Plan. Where improvements to existing structures and
uses are contemplated, such improvements shall be permitted only in conformance
with a plan approved by the Building Official which will assure floodproofing
to such structures and uses to the maximum practical and feasible extent.
      5.   RCO and FW Overlay Process. The FW Overlay Zone District shall be
combined only with the RCO Zone District, subject to following additional
regulations:
         a.   Fences, fills, walls, or other appurtenances shall not be placed
so as to constitute an obstruction or debris catching obstacle to the free flow
of floodwaters.
         b.   All streets, bridges, canals, ditches, pipelines and overhead and
underground utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
the potential for flood damage.
         c.   Developments shall be in conformance with all applicable policies
of the safety element of General Plan.
         d.   No development shall be permitted which does not receive approval
by the state reclamation board under the provisions of California
Administrative Code, Title 23, and by the City under the provisions of
Chapter 18 of this Title.
      6.   Additional Flood Control Standards. Regulations for development and
construction in areas of special flood hazard are contained in Title 12 (Flood
Control) of the Reedley Municipal Code. Said regulations are intended to be
complimentary to the provisions of this Zoning Code relating to development and
redevelopment in areas of potential flooding. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.18.020: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE DISTRICT (PUD):
   A.   Purpose of the Planned Unit Development Overlay Zone District. The
Planned Unit Development Overlay Zone District (PUD Overlay Zone District) is
intended to apply to base zoning districts to ensure that property will be
developed in a manner superior to that which would otherwise be achieved
through strict adherence to the regulations of the base zoning district.
   B.   Application. The PUD Overlay Zone District is intended to serve as an
optional approach for applicants applying for a Planned Unit Development
established in
Chapter 10.20  (Planned Unit Developments).
   C.   General Provisions. The development and use of land within a PUD
Overlay Zone District shall comply with the standards and procedures
established in
Chapter 10.20  (Planned Unit Developments). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.20
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
SECTION:
10.20.010: Purpose And Intent
10.20.020: General Plan Consistency
10.20.030: Applicability
10.20.040: Land Use Regulations and Allowable Uses
10.20.050: Development Standards
10.20.060: Required Conditions
10.20.070: Conditional Use Permit Procedures And Conditions
10.20.080: Findings
10.20.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish a process by which new development
projects can achieve a more functional, aesthetically pleasing, and harmonious
living and working environment within which otherwise might not be possible by
strict adherence to the regulations of this Zoning Code. In certain instances,
the objectives of this Zoning Code may be achieved by the PUDs which do not
conform in all respects with the standards established in this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.20.020: GENERAL PLAN CONSISTENCY:
   A.   Density. The allowed residential density in a PUD Overlay Zone District
ranges from one (1) to twenty-nine (29) dwelling units per acre.
   B.   Consistent General Plan Land Use Designations. PUDs implement the
following General Plan land use designations:
      1.   Suburban Residential (SR);
      2.   Low Density Residential (LDR);
      3.   Medium Density Residential (MDR);
      4.   High Density Residential (HDR);
      5.   Central Downtown Commercial (CDC);
      6.   Neighborhood Commercial (NC);
      7.   Community Commercial (CC);
      8.   Office Commercial (OC);
      9.   Service Commercial (SC);
      10.   Light Industrial (LI);
      11.   Heavy Industrial (HI); and
      12.   Public/Institutional Facility (PI). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.20.030: APPLICABILITY:
A PUD may be located in any zone district upon the granting of a Conditional
Use Permit in compliance with
Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use Permit), or by applying the PUD Overlay Zone
District in compliance with the Section
10.18.020 (Planned Unit Development Overlay Zone District (PUD)). (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.20.040: LAND USE REGULATIONS AND ALLOWABLE USES:
A PUD shall include only those uses allowed, either by-right or conditional
uses, in the zone district in which the PUD is located, subject to the
following exceptions:
   A.   PUDs in UR, R-1, and RM Zone Districts. In a UR, R-1, or RM Zone
District, a Planned Unit Development (PUD) can incorporate any land use that is
permitted as an allowed by-right use or conditional use in the R-1, MDR, HDR,
or PO Zone Districts, or a combination of such land uses.
   B.   PUDs in CC Zone District. In a CC Zone District, a Planned Unit
Development (PUD) can incorporate any land use that is permitted as an allowed
by-right or conditional use in the MDR, HDR, PO, or CS Zone Districts, or a
combination of such land uses.
   C.   PUDs in ML and MH Zone Districts. In a ML or MH Zone District, a
Planned Unit Development (PUD) can incorporate any land use that is permitted
as an allowed by-right or conditional use in the CS, ML, or MH Zone Districts,
or any combination of such land uses.
   D.   PUDs for Mobile Home Parks. Only mobile home dwellings located on
permanent foundations may be included within a Planned Unit Development (PUD)
for a mobile home subdivision. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.20.050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Application of Development Standards.  The development standards of
parcel area and dimensions, parcel coverage, yard spaces, distances between
structures, off street parking and off-street loading facilities and landscaped
areas need not be equivalent to the standards established for the regulations
for the zone district in which the PUD is located if the applicant can
demonstrate the objectives of this Zoning Code and Chapter are achieved.
   B.   Residential Density. The average residential density shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the maximum residential density prescribed by the
development standards of the underlying zone district, or Section
10.50.070  (Mixed Use) for a mixed-use project. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.20.060: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
No land use shall be allowed and no process, equipment or materials shall be
employed which are determined to be objectionable to persons residing or
working in the vicinity or injurious to property located in the vicinity by
reason of odor, fumes, dust, smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, water carried
wastes, noise, vibration, illumination, glare, unsightliness or heavy truck
traffic or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.20.070: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Alternative Procedure. In lieu of the permit processing procedures
established in this Section, an applicant may also rezone or reclassify their
parcel in compliance with Section 10.19.020 (Planned Unit Development Overlay
Zone District (PUD)).
   B.   Application Processing. The regulations established in
Chapter 10.100  (Conditional Use permit) shall control the procedure for
submitting an application for and processing of a Conditional Use Permit for a
PUD, subject to the following procedures:
      1.   In lieu of the drawing of the site, the application shall be
accompanied by a general development plan of the entire PUD, drawn to scale and
showing provisions for: draining of surface waters, watercourses, railroad and
public utility rights of way, streets, driveways and pedestrian walks, off
street parking and loading facilities, reservations and dedications for public
uses, private uses including dwelling types, lot layout, locations, heights and
elevations of structures and landscaped areas.
      2.   The application shall be accompanied by a tabulation of the area
proposed to be devoted to each land use and a tabulation of the average
residential density in the area or areas proposed to be devoted to residential
use.
      3.   When a PUD involves proposals which necessitate the filing of a
tentative subdivision map and/or which would also necessitate the granting of
exceptions of the regulations of the Subdivision Ordinance, the Planning
Commission may grant tentative approval of the proposal. Where such tentative
approval is requested by the applicant, the requirements of Paragraphs 1 and 2
of this Subsection may be waived temporarily, provided the applicant submits
the following:
         a.   In lieu of the drawing of the site prescribed in Subsection 1 of
this Section, the application shall be accompanied by a schematic drawing drawn
to a minimum scale of one-inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), showing the
general relationships contemplated among all public and private uses and
existing and proposed physical features.
         b.    A written statement setting forth the source of water supply,
method of sewage disposal, means of drainage, dwelling types, residential and
nonresidential uses, parcel layout, public and private access, height of
structures, lighting, landscaped areas and provisions for maintenance of
landscaped areas, area to be devoted to various uses and residential density
contemplated by the applicant.
         c.   Upon approval of a tentative subdivision map, in accordance with
the procedures prescribed by the Subdivision Ordinance, the applicant shall
submit a development plan in accordance with the requirements of Paragraphs 1
and 2 of this Subsection before the Planning Commission may grant a final
approval of the applicant's proposal.
      4.   Application Denial. The Planning Commission may deny an application
for a Conditional Use Permit for a planned unit development if it is unable to
make one or more of the required findings established in Section
10.20.080  (Findings) of this Chapter.
      5.   Appeal. The action on a PUD application may be appealed to the City
Council in compliance with Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use permit). (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.20.080: FINDINGS:
To grant a Conditional Use Permit for a PUD, the Planning Commission shall make
the following findings:
   A.   That the proposed location of the PUD is in accordance with the
objectives of this Title.
   B.   That the proposed location of the PUD and the conditions under which it
would be operated or maintained will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety, and welfare or materially injurious to properties or improvements in
the vicinity.
   C.   That the proposed PUD will comply with each of the applicable
provisions of this section.
   D.   That the standards of residential density, site area and dimensions,
site coverage, setbacks, height of structures, distance between structures, off
street parking and off-street loading facilities, landscaped areas and street
design will produce an environment of stable and desirable character consistent
with the objectives of this Title and will not generate more traffic than the
streets in the vicinity can carry without congestion and will not overload
utilities.
   E.   That the combination of different dwelling types and/or variety of land
uses in the development will complement each other and will harmonize with
existing and proposed land uses in the vicinity. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
ARTICLE 3. REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONES
CHAPTER 10.30
GENERAL SITE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10.30.010: Purpose
10.30.020: Parcel Coverage Measurement
10.30.030: Height Measurements And Exceptions
10.30.040: Setback Measurements And Exceptions
10.30.050: Setback Exchange For Residentially Zoned Parcels
10.30.060: Corner Cutoff Areas
10.30.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to prescribe development and site regulations
that apply, except where specifically stated, to development in all districts.
These standards will be used in conjunction with the standards for each zoning
district located in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development
Standards). In the event of a conflict, the standards specific to the zone
district will override these regulations. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.30.020: PARCEL COVERAGE MEASUREMENT:
Parcel Coverage is the percent of the total footprint of all structures on a
parcel to the net parcel area. The footprints of all principal and accessory
structures, including garages, and carports, shall be included in the parcel
coverage measurement unless otherwise noted. The following structures shall be
excluded from the calculation:
   A.   Uncovered decks, patios, landings, balconies, and unenclosed stairways;
   B.   Eaves and roof overhangs;
   C.   Trellises and similar structures;
   D.   Outdoor swimming pools and hot tubs; and
   E.   Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units created
through new construction. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.30.030: HEIGHT MEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Height Measurement. Excluding accessory structures, the height of a
structure shall be measured vertically from the average elevation of the
surface of the ground covered by the structure to the highest point of the
structure.
   B.   Exceptions. The following exceptions shall apply:
      1.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to the height of any
structure necessary for public safety or as required by any law or regulation
of the State or agency thereof.
      2.   Penthouses or roof structures for the housing of elevators,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, air conditioning equipment, or similar
equipment required to operate and maintain structures, and fire and parapet
walls, skylights, towers, spires, cupolas, road signs (where allowed),
flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, television and radio masts, or similar
structures, may be erected above the height limit but shall not be allowed for
the purpose of providing additional living or floor space.
   C.   Height of Accessory Structures. The height of accessory structures
shall be determined in accordance with
Chapter 10.32  (Accessory Structures). (Ord. 2024- 001, 9-10-2024)
10.30.040: SETBACK MEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Setback Measurement. Setback measurements shall be measured as follows:
      1.   A setback line defining a required yard is parallel to and at the
specified distance from the corresponding front, side, or rear property line.
For regulations pertaining to projections or encroachments into required
setbacks, refer to Section
10.30.040.B (Allowed Projections).
      2.   Where a parcel abuts a street having only a portion of its required
width dedicated or reserved for public rights-of-way, parcel area and required
setbacks shall be measured from a line representing the boundary of the
additional width required for street purposes abutting the parcel.
      B.   Garage and Carport Location. Garages or carports shall be located
not less than twenty feet (20') from any street frontage where the garage door
or carport opening faces and takes direct access to the street. Where setback
requirements pose a greater setback, such setback shall apply.
   C.   Allowed Projections. In addition to Section
10.30.050  (Setback Exchange for Residentially Zoned Parcels), structure and
architectural features may project into a required setback in compliance with
the following standards.
      1.   The standards of this Section apply to new development or structures
and new equipment that is added to serve existing structures.
      2.   Where more than sixty percent (60%) of such portion of the linear
frontage of parcels within any block is comprised of parcels with less than the
minimum front setback requirement, the minimum front setback requirement in
such block may be reduced to the average of the actual front setbacks of all
the parcels in such block, counting those which have front setbacks greater
than the minimum front setback requirement of the zoning district as having the
minimum requirement.
      3.   The structures listed in Table-10.30-A may extend into, and other
encroachments may be in, required setbacks and are subject to all applicable
requirements of the Building Code. No structure or projection thereof shall
extend into a public easement.
Table 10.30-A
Allowed Projections
Projection Type Front Setback Street Side Setback Interior Side Rear Setback
                                                  Setback
Table 10.30-A
Allowed Projections
Projection Type Front Setback  Street Side     Interior Side   Rear Setback
                               Setback         Setback
Cornices,
eaves, awnings,
canopies,
sunshades,
sills,
cornices, belt  8 feet         2 feet          2 feet          2 feet
courses,
trellises,
arbors, and
other similar
architectural
features
Patios,
porches,
platforms,
decks, and
other
unenclosed
areas not       6 feet or 20%
covered by a    of said width
roof or canopy  into a court
which do not    and in no case 2 feet          3 feet          3 feet
extend above    more than 6
the level of    feet.
the first floor
of the building
except for open
work guard
rails to the
extent legally
required
Open unenclosed
stairways,
stair landing   30 inches      Not allowed     Not allowed     Not allowed
and balconies
without roofs
Fireplace       30 inches      30 inches       30 inches       30 inches
chimneys
Open,
unenclosed,
metal fire      4 feet         Not allowed     Not allowed     4 feet
escapes and
depressed ramps
or stairways
Planter boxes
attached to a   3 feet         Not allowed     Not allowed     Not allowed
structure
Electric                       No limit (can   No limit (can   No limit (can
Vehicle         Not allowed    extend to       extend to       extend to parcel
Charging                       parcel line)    parcel line)    line)
Equipment
Air
conditioners,
compressors,                                                   No limit (can
hot tub motors, Not allowed    Not allowed     Not allowed     extend to parcel
pool filters,                                                  line)
and other
mechanical
equipment
                               Allowed in      Allowed in      Allowed in
Swimming Pool   Not allowed    compliance with compliance with compliance with
and Spas                       the California  the California  the California
                               Building Code   Building Code   Building Code
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.30.050: SETBACK EXCHANGE FOR RESIDENTIALLY ZONED PARCELS:
Excluding accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units in
compliance with
Chapter 10.52 (Accessory Dwelling Unit) and
Chapter 10.54 (Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit), front yards on residentially
zoned lots may be less than the required setback, provided that a written
request and site plan are submitted in accordance with Section
10.30.050 (Setback Exchange). (Ord. 2024- 001, 9-10-2024)
10.30.060: CORNER CUTOFF AREAS:
   A.   Purpose and Applicability. Any new development proposed adjacent to any
public right-of-way, private street, alleyway, and/or access easement shall be
designed to provide corner cutoff areas for pedestrian and traffic safety.
   B.   Maximum Height Limit in Corner Cut Off Area. Except as otherwise
provided in this Title, no structure, fence, wall, hedge, or other object shall
exceed three feet (3') in height when located in a corner cut off area. Corner
cutoffs are established to provide an unobstructed view for vehicular traffic
approaching an intersection.
   C.   Measurement of Corner Cutoff Area. On corner parcels, the corner cutoff
area shall be formed by a ninety (90)-degree triangle with two sides measuring
thirty feet (30') along both the front and side street curb lines, said length
beginning at their intersection at the street curb line, and a third side
connecting the two (2) ends running diagonally across the property. See Figure
10.30-1 (Corner Cutoff Area Measurement).
   D.   Maintenance. The traffic safety visibility area shall be continuously
maintained by the individual property owner(s) in compliance with the standards
established in this Section.
Figure 10.30-1
Corner Cutoff Area Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3470.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.32
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10.32.010: Purpose And Applicability
10.32.020: Permit Requirements
10.32.030: Relationship To Other Structures
10.32.040: Development Standards
10.32.010: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to establish the regulations
that apply to accessory structures in residential zoning districts, and to
specify the uses that are allowable as accessory to the primary use in
residential zoning districts.
   B.   Applicability. The standards established in this Chapter shall apply to
the following:
      1.   Residential Accessory Structures, as defined in
Title 10, Article 8 (Definitions).
      2.   Decks that exceed two hundred (200) square feet in area and exceed
thirty inches (30") above the ground elevation, excluding above-ground pools.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.32.020: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Except as otherwise provided in this Title, no special planning permit or
entitlement shall be required for accessory structures that are consistent with
the standards in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.32.030: RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER STRUCTURES:
   A.   An accessory structure may only be constructed on a parcel with a
legally allowed primary structure.
   B.   For accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units used
as a habitable space, please refer to
Chapter 10.52 (Accessory Dwelling Unit) and Chapter 10.54 (Junior Accessory
Dwelling Unit). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.32.040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Accessory structures shall conform to the same property development standards
as main structures except as required by this Section.
   A.   Accessory structures shall not be located in the corner cutoff area as
identified in Section
10.30.060 (Corner Cutoff Area).
   B.   Residential accessory structures shall be exempt from side and rear
yard setback requirements identified in Article 2 if they comply with all of
the following:
      1.   The accessory structure is less than one hundred and twenty (120)
square feet in area;
      2.   The height of the accessory structure is twelve feet (12') or
shorter, measured from plate line, provided the slope from the plate line to
the roof ridge shall not exceed five (5) by twelve (12);
      3.   No plumbing, electrical, mechanical, or gas systems shall be allowed
in or attached to the accessory structure; and
      4.   The accessory structure shall comply with California Building Code
requirements.
   C.   Residential accessory structures shall comply with the setback
requirements identified in Article 2 and California Building code requirements
if any of the following apply:
      1.   The accessory structure is one hundred and twenty (120) square feet
or greater in area;
      2.   The height of the accessory structure is taller than twelve feet
(12'), measured from plate line, provided the slope from the plate line to the
roof ridge shall not exceed five (5) by twelve (12); and
      3.   Plumbing, electrical, mechanical, or gas systems are in or attached
to the accessory structure.
Figure 10.32-1
Accessory Structure Height Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3472.png]
 
   D.   Maximum Height. The maximum height of accessory structures shall be
established in compliance with Article 2. The maximum height of accessory
dwelling units shall be established in compliance with
Chapter 10.52  (Accessory Dwelling Unit) and
Chapter 10.54  (Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit).
   E.   Rental of Structure Prohibited.  No accessory structure shall be rented
for any purpose or otherwise used as an accessory dwelling unit unless
developed and rented specifically in compliance with
Chapter 10.52  (Accessory Dwelling Unit) and
Chapter 10.54  (Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.34
FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES
SECTION:
10.34.010: Purpose And Applicability
10.34.020: Height Measurement
10.34.030: Height Limitations
10.34.040: Fence Materials
10.34.050: Required Fencing And Walls
10.34.060: Temporary Fencing
10.34.070: Swimming Pools, Spas, And Other Water Feature Fencing
10.34.010: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to define and provide standards
for the location, composition, and height of fences, walls, and hedges. No
provision of this Chapter is intended to supersede or be in conflict with any
Federal, State, or local regulation or statute relating to security fencing, or
any safety requirements of the board of education. The following shall be in
addition to the regulations of each zoning district.
   B.   Applicability. The standards established in this Chapter shall apply
to:
      1.   New fences, walls, or hedges;
      2.   New development;
      3.   Building additions to existing structures that expand the existing
floor area by at least twenty percent (20%), or two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet, whichever is less, not including single-unit dwellings or
duplexes. The addition and/or expansion shall be cumulative from the date of
adoption of this Title;
      4.   The demolition and reconstruction of a parcel; and
      5.   A request for a Conditional Use Permit. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.34.020: HEIGHT MEASUREMENT:
The height of a fence, wall, or hedge shall be measured from the average ground
level to the highest point of the fence, hedge, or wall, excluding the post or
column. Whenever there is a grade separation at the fence/property line between
two (2) or more abutting properties, the height shall be measured from the
highest average grade to the highest point of the fence, hedge, or wall,
excluding the post or column. See Figure 10.34-1 (Fence, Wall, and Hedge Height
Measurement).
Figure 10.34-1
Fence, Wall, and Hedge Height Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3477.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.34.030: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Increased Fence, Wall, and Hedge Height. Notwithstanding other
provisions of this Title, the Community Development Director may approve an
increased height of any required fence, wall, or hedge to a maximum of twelve
feet (12') if there is a grade separation at the fence/property line between
two (2) or more abutting properties that is greater than three feet (3').
   B.   Residential Zone Height Limitations. The following fence, wall, and
hedge height limitation standards shall apply to all parcels within a
residential zoning district.
      1.   Front Setbacks. The height of fences, walls, and hedges in the front
setback shall comply with the following:
         a.   Maximum Height in Front Setback. No fence, wall, or hedge over
three feet (3') in height shall be allowed in any required front setback area
or within the excepted corner cutoff area.
         b.   Alternative Fencing. Alternatively, a wrought iron or tubular
steel type fence, where at least ninety percent (90%) of the fence shall be
open for the passage of light and air, may be constructed to a maximum height
of four feet (4') in the front setback area and in the defined corner cutoff
area.
         c.   Exception. For parcels where the front setback abuts a reverse
corner parcel, the fence, wall, or hedge can exceed three feet (3') in height
subject to review and approval by the Director.
      2.   Rear and Side Setbacks. Fences, walls, and hedges, not greater than
seven feet (7') in height, shall be allowed on all rear and side property
lines, and on or to the rear of all front setback lines, unless otherwise
stated below.
      3.   Corner Cutoff Area. Fences, walls, and hedges shall comply with the
following corner cutoff area standards:
      4.   No fence, wall, or hedge over three feet (3') in height shall be
allowed within any defined corner cutoff area.
      5.   No fence, wall, or hedge over three feet (3') in height shall be
allowed within the street side setback of a reverse corner parcel. The fence,
wall, or hedge can exceed three feet in height subject to review and approval
by the Director.
      6.   Alternative Fencing. Alternatively, a wrought iron or tubular steel
type fence, where at least ninety percent (90%) of the fence shall be open for
the passage of light and air, may be constructed in the defined corner cutoff
area.
   C.   Commercial Zone Height Limitations. The following fence, wall, and
hedge height limitation standards shall apply to all parcels within a
commercial and/or office zoning district.
      1.   Request for Modification to Standards. Upon approval by the
Community Development Director, a fence or wall up to twelve feet (12') in
height may be allowed.
      2.   Where a parcel adjoins or is located across a street or alley from
an RCO, UR, R, RE, RM, or PO district, a decorative-style solid wall or fence
seven feet (7') minimum in height, or other height or type of screening device
as may be required by the Community Development Department, shall be located on
the property line common to such districts
      3.   Properties Along Reedley Parkway. Where a parcel adjoins or is
located across the Reedley Parkway, the following height standards shall apply:
         a.   Fencing along a property line shared with the Reedley Parkway is
not required to be a solid wall or fence seven feet (7') minimum in height if
the proposed land use is complementary to the Reedley Parkway and provides a
connection to the Reedley Parkway.
         b.   Fencing along a property line shared with the Reedley Parkway may
be open fencing less than seven feet in height.
         c.   Fencing shall comply with Section
10.34.040 (Fence Materials).
         d.   Allowed use or conditional use of open storage of materials and
equipment shall be allowed only within an area surrounded or screened by a
decorative-style solid wall or fence seven feet (7') minimum in height with a
maximum height of ten feet (10').
      4.   Corner Cutoff Area. Fences, walls, and hedges erected on a parcel
within a commercial zoning district shall comply with all corner cutoff area
standards established in Section
10.30.060  (Corner Cutoff Area).
   D.   Industrial Zone Height Limitations.  The following fence, wall, and
hedge height limitation standards shall apply to all parcels within an
industrial zoning district.
      1.   Where a parcel adjoins an RCO, UR, RE, R, RM, PO, or CC zone
district, a solid decorative-style wall or fence seven feet (7') in height or
such other height or type of screening device as may be required by the
Community Development Department, shall be located on the property line common
to such districts, except in a required front setback or if a parcel adjoins
the Reedley Parkway.
      2.   Industrial Zoned Properties Along Reedley Parkway. For parcels
adjoining the Reedley Parkway, please see Paragraph
10.34.030  C.3 (Properties Along Reedley Parkway).
      3.   A use not conducted entirely within a completely enclosed structure,
on a parcel across a street or an alley from an RCO, UR, RE, R, RM, CC, or CN
zoning district shall be screened by a decorative-style solid wall or screen
fence, not less than seven feet (7') in height. The Community Development
Director may approve a wall or fence up to fourteen feet (14') in height.
      4.   In an ML zoning district, open storage of materials and equipment
shall be allowed only within an area surrounded and screened by a decorative-
style solid wall or compact evergreen hedge (with solid gates where necessary),
not less than seven feet (7') in height.
      5.   Corner Cutoff Area. Fences, walls, and hedges erected on a parcel
within an industrial zoning district shall not comply with all corner cutoff
area standards established in Section 10.30.060 (Corner Cutoff Area).
      6.   No fence or wall shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height if located
in a required front, side, or rear yard setback.
   E.   Game and Recreational Use Fencing. Fences or structures over six feet
(6') in height, to enclose tennis courts, or other game areas shall be composed
of wire mesh or chain link fencing. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.34.040: FENCE MATERIALS:
   A.   General. A fence may be made of a variety of materials including wire
mesh, steel mesh, chain-link, iron, masonry, louvered glass, wood slat, or
stake and other similar materials, and constructed with or without openings
(i.e., open framework such as wrought iron or a solid fence such as cedar or
redwood planks).
   B.   Allowable Materials.  The following materials shall be allowed in all
districts, except when a zoning district has a more restrictive list of allowed
materials. See Subsection
10.34.040 .C (Prohibited Materials in Residential Zone Districts):
      1.   Materials specifically allowed elsewhere in this Chapter;
      2.   Wood pickets;
      3.   Split rail wood;
      4.   Wrought iron and tubular steel;
      5.   Brick and stone;
      6.   Stucco;
      7.   Synthetic materials in compliance with Subsection
10.34.040.F (Synthetic Materials), below.
      8.   Shade cloth when used in combination with allowed fencing such as
chain link, wrought iron, or tubular steel, provided it consists of materials
specifically manufactured for such a purpose; and
      9.   Privacy slats when in combination with chain link fencing (when
chain link is allowed) provided it consists of materials specifically
manufactured for such a purpose.
   C.   Prohibited Materials in Residential Zone Districts. Chain link fencing
shall not be allowed to be used as a fence material in any residential zone
district.
   D.   Prohibited Materials. The following materials shall not be allowed to
be used as a fence material in any district:
      1.   Plywood, oriented strand board, pressboard, and similar wood
products;
      2.   Chicken wire or similar wire products;
      3.   Corrugated metal or corrugated plastic;
      4.   Piping (including metal, PVC, and other materials);
      5.   Improvised materials, including but not limited to wood scraps,
doors, garage doors, refrigerator doors, and mattresses;
      6.   Improvised screening materials, including but not limited to
blankets and tarps; and
      7.   Any material not listed unless approved by the Director.
   E.   Retaining Walls. Retaining walls shall be designed consistent with the
architectural style of the primary structure. Retaining walls shall consist
only of concrete, masonry, stone, brick, or timber. Timber may be allowed only
if not in conflict with the Building Code and applicable City standards.
   F.   Veneer and Synthetic Materials. Veneer or synthetic materials
simulating the actual, natural material (i.e.., brick or stone veneer in place
of actual brick or stone) shall only be allowed upon demonstrating to the
Community Development Director that the substitute material complies with the
following:
      1.   Simulates the natural material; and
      2.   Is organized visually to simulate actual construction using natural
material (i.e., organization of brick in offsetting rows or placing larger
stones at the bottom and smaller stones toward the top). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.34.050: REQUIRED FENCING AND WALLS:
Solid masonry walls shall be required to be constructed in order to mitigate
noise generated by vehicular traffic. The fence or wall may be constructed on
property lines abutting collector streets, arterial streets, expressways,
highways, and freeways. The height of such wall shall be determined by the
Community Development Director in relation to the noise, danger, or hazard
involved. Said fence or wall may be required when a use requires a permit
according to the noise, danger, or hazard involved. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.34.060: TEMPORARY FENCING:
Temporary fencing, including construction fencing, may be approved as deemed
necessary and appropriate by the Community Development Director in compliance
with the allowable materials listed in Section
10.34.040.B (Allowed Materials). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.34.070: SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS, AND OTHER WATER FEATURE FENCING:
Fencing for swimming pools, spas, and other water features shall comply with
the fencing requirements established in the California Building Code. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.36
LANDSCAPING
SECTION:
10.36.010: Purpose
10.36.020: Applicability
10.36.030: Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance
10.36.040: General Landscaping Standards
10.36.050: Landscape Area Requirements
10.36.060: Landscaping Maintenance
10.36.010: PURPOSE:
The specific purposes of the landscaping regulations are to:
   A.   Improve the appearance and livability of the community;
   B.   Enhance the aesthetic appearance of development and provide
environmental benefits;
   C.   Aid in energy conservation;
   D.   Protect water quality and prevent soil erosion by providing trees and
vegetated areas that harvest, absorb, and filter rain and storm water;
   E.   Reduce air pollution and absorb greenhouse gas emissions through the
biological filtering capacities of trees and vegetation, and reduce the
negative quality-of-life effects of heat, noise, and glare;
   F.   Promote conservation of water resources through the installation of
properly designed, installed, and maintained climate-appropriate plants and
water-efficient irrigation systems;
   G.   Minimize or eliminate conflicts between potentially incompatible but
otherwise allowed land uses on adjoining parcels through visual screening; and
   H.   Soften the appearance and reduce the heat island effect of parking lots
and other development. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.36.020: APPLICABILITY:
The standards of this Chapter shall apply to:
   A.   New development projects with landscaping;
   B.   Additions (other than to single-unit dwellings or two-unit dwellings)
to an existing structure that expands the existing floor area by two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet or more. The floor area increases to the
existing structure shall be cumulative from the date of adoption of this Title;
   C.   A new structure with a floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet
or more on a developed parcel, except for accessory or junior accessory
dwelling units. The one thousand (1,000) square feet shall be cumulative from
the date of adoption of this Title;
   D.   The demolition and reconstruction of a structure; and
   E.   A first-time installed landscaping or a re-landscaping project where
the new or modified landscaped area is equal to or greater than one thousand
(1,000) square feet. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.36.030: WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to adopt by reference the State
Model Efficient Landscape Ordinance as required by State law.
   B.   Adoption of State Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance. Except as
hereafter provided, the city hereby adopts the Model Water Efficient Landscape
Ordinance (MWELO) of the State by reference as identified in Sections 49
through 495, Chapter 2.7, Division 2, of Title 23 of the California Code of
Regulations, as amended. A copy of the Model Water Efficient Landscape
Ordinance of the State shall be maintained in the Planning Department and the
Office of the City Clerk and shall be made available for public inspection
while this ordinance is in force.
   C.   Local Agency Defined. The term "local agency" in the Water Efficient
Landscape Ordinance shall mean the City of Reedley. The term "local water
purveyor" in the Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance shall mean the City of
Reedley. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.36.040: GENERAL LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
   A.   Allowed Materials. The following landscaping materials are allowed:
      1.   Combination of Materials. Landscaping may consist of a combination
of turf, groundcovers, artificial trees and shrubs, shrubs, vines, trees,
incidental features such as steppingstones, benches, fountains, sculptures,
decorative stones, and other decorative features placed within a landscaped
setting.
      2.   Hard Top, Gravel, and Rocks. Paved (e.g., concrete, stone, masonry)
surfaces, gravel (including decomposed granite) surfaces, and rocks shall not
exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the area required to be landscaped.
      3.   Recirculating Water Features Required. Recirculating water shall be
used for decorative water features.
      4.   Non-Plant Materials. Non-plant materials such cinder, bark, and
similar materials shall not be used to meet the minimum planting area required
by this section unless underneath shrubs and trees.
      5.   Synthetic Lawns. Synthetic lawns or ground covers shall be
considered as turf and may cover up to ninety percent (90%) of the required
landscape area.
      6.   Mulch. A minimum two-inch (2") layer of mulch shall be applied on
all exposed soil surfaces of planting areas except in turf areas, creeping or
rooting ground covers or other special planting situations where mulch is not
recommended. Stabilizing mulching products shall be used on slopes. Mulch shall
be confined to areas underneath shrubs and trees and is not a substitute for
ground cover plants.
   B.   Dimension of Landscaped Areas. Landscaped areas shall have a minimum
horizontal dimension of two and one-half feet (2.5') to count towards required
landscaping.
   C.   Corner Cutoff Area. Landscaping shall be installed and maintained in
compliance with the corner cutoff area standards established in Section
10.30.060  (Corner Cutoff Areas). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.36.050: LANDSCAPE AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Single-Unit, Two-Unit, and Three-Unit Residential Dwellings. All
required front and street-facing side setbacks, except for areas used for
parking, recreation, and exit and entry shall be landscaped. If a solid fence
is provided on a street side setback property line, the street side setback is
not required to be landscaped.
   B.   Residential Uses with Four or More Dwelling Units and Mixed-Use. All
required setbacks, except for areas used for parking, recreation, and exit and
entry, shall be landscaped.
   C.   Non-Residential Uses.  All required setbacks and setbacks that abut a
street, except for areas used for exit and entry, shall be landscaped. If an
industrial land use abuts an industrial district, side and rear setbacks are
not required to be landscaped. However, should an industrial use abut a single-
unit or multi-unit dwelling property, it shall be fully landscaped.
   D.   Landscaping along Parcel Perimeters. Landscape buffers shall be
installed and maintained along side and rear parcel lines between differing
zone districts, in accordance with the sections of this Article and the
following standards:
      1.   The following uses shall maintain a landscape buffer minimum of five
feet (5') in width:
         a.   Multi-unit dwelling residential;
         b.   Mixed-use;
      2.   The following uses shall maintain a landscape buffer minimum of five
feet (5') in width:
         a.   Non-residential;
         b.   Commercial, office, business park;
         c.   Industrial; and
         d.   Public Facilities.
   E.   Unused and Non-Landscaped Areas. All areas of a project site not
intended for a specific use, including areas planned for future phases of a
phased development, shall be maintained clear and free of refuse, debris, or
other accumulated matter.
   F.   Location of Trees. All trees shall be planted outside of meter boxes
and outside of any public utility easement(s). Trees planted adjacent to public
utility easement(s) shall have root barriers installed. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.36.060: LANDSCAPING MAINTENANCE:
   A.   All planting and other landscape elements required by this Article
shall be permanently maintained in good growing condition. Such maintenance
shall include, where appropriate, pruning, mowing, weeding, cleaning,
fertilizing, and regular watering.
   B.   Trees shall be maintained by property owners to be free from physical
damage or injury arising from lack of water, chemical damage, accidents,
vandalism, insects, and disease.
   C.   Property owners and occupants of parcels fronting on any portion of a
street shall maintain private trees and landscaping in such condition that the
trees or landscaping will not interfere with the public safety and convenience
in the use of streets or sidewalks. Such owners and occupants shall maintain
such trees so that there is an eight-foot (8')-high pedestrian clearance from
the top of the sidewalk or pathway, and a thirteen-foot (13')-high vehicular
clearance from the top of the curb or the top of the pavement. (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.38
PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10.38.010: Purpose And Applicability
10.38.020: General Provisions
10.38.030: Number Of Spaces Required
10.38.040: Shared Parking
10.38.050: Offsite Parking Facilities
10.38.060: Parking Facility Design Standards
10.38.070: Off Street Loading Requirements
10.38.080: Exceptions To Parking And Loading
10.38.010: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose.  The specific purpose of the parking and loading regulations
are to:
      1.   Establish off-street parking requirements that are appropriate to
their land use type and size of development.
      2.   Offer flexible means of minimizing the amount of area devoted to
vehicle parking.
      3.   Require that parking areas are designed to reduce potential
environmental impacts, including minimizing stormwater runoff and heat island
effects.
      4.   Ensure that on-site parking and loading areas are designed and
located to protect public safety; minimize congestion and conflict points on
travel aisles and public streets; and where appropriate, buffer surrounding
land uses from their impact.
      5.   Provide loading and delivery facilities in proportion to the needs
of allowed uses.
      6.   Protect neighborhoods from the effects of vehicular noise and
spillover traffic and parking generated by uses in adjacent nonresidential
districts and ensure adequate infrastructure to improve circulation.
   B.   Applicability.  The requirements of this Chapter apply to the
following:
      1.   Change In Use, Additions, and Enlargements. Whenever there is a
change in use, or increase in floor area, or other unit of measurement
specified in this chapter, and such change, increase or other unit of
measurement is such that it creates a need for an increase in the number of off
street parking spaces by fifty percent (50%) or more, such increase in off
street parking facilities shall be provided on the basis of the increased
requirements of the new use, or on the basis of the increased floor area, or in
other units of measurement; provided, however, that in case a change in use
creates a need for two (2) or fewer additional off street parking spaces, no
additional parking spaces shall be required.
      2.   Projects and Land Uses with an Approved Site Plan. The requirements
of this Section shall apply to all uses for which a site plan is approved in
accordance with the provisions of this Title.
      3.   Alterations that Increase the Number of Dwelling Units. The creation
of additional dwelling units through the alteration of an existing structure or
construction of an additional structure or structures requires the provision of
on-site parking to serve the new dwelling units. If the number of existing
parking spaces is greater than the requirements for the existing units, the
number of spaces more than the prescribed minimum may be counted toward meeting
the parking requirements for the new dwelling units. Where an existing use is
expanded, the parking requirements of this Chapter shall apply only to the
addition.
      4.   Non-Conforming Parking or Loading. In compliance with Article 5
(Nonconformities) and except as provided for in
Chapter 10.52  (Accessory Dwelling Unit) and
Chapter 10.54  (Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit), an existing use of land or
structure shall not be deemed to be non-conforming solely because of a lack of
on-site parking and/or loading facilities required by this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.38.020: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Units of Measurement. The units of measurement used in this Chapter
shall comply with the following:
      1.   For the purposes of this Chapter, "floor area" shall mean that floor
area used, or intended to be used, for service to the public as customers,
patrons, clients, patients, or tenants, including areas occupied by fixtures
and equipment used for the display or sale of merchandise. It shall not include
areas used principally for storage, or administrative offices incidental to a
retail or commercial service use.
      2.   In the case of mixed uses, the required off street parking shall be
the sum of the requirements for the various uses computed separately. Off-
street parking for one use shall not be considered as providing required
parking for any other use except as allowed for in this Chapter for specified
for shared uses.
      3.   If, in the calculation of the requirements of this section, a
fractional number results, fractions of one-half or greater shall be rounded up
to the nearest whole number, and fractions of less than one-half shall be
rounded down to the nearest whole number, except as otherwise provided.
   B.   Existing Parking and Loading Uses.  No existing parking or loading
areas may be reduced in amount or changed in design, location, or maintenance
below the requirements for such use, unless equivalent substitute facilities
are provided.
   C.   Maintenance.  Parking lots and pedestrian areas, including landscaped
areas, driveways, and loading areas, shall be maintained free of refuse,
debris, or other accumulated matter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.38.030: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
   A.   Minimum Standards. Each land use shall provide at least the minimum
number of off street parking spaces required by this Chapter, except where a
greater number of spaces is required through land use entitlement approval or
where an exception has been granted through approval of a minor deviation
permit in accordance with
Chapter 10.94  (Minor Deviation) or a discretionary permit.
   B.   Parking Schedule. The number of parking spaces required per land use is
established in Table 10.38-A (Parking Schedule).
Table 10.38-A
Parking Schedule
Use Spaces Required
Table 10.38-A
Parking Schedule
Use                                     Spaces Required
Residential Uses
                                        Two spaces for each dwelling unit. One
Single Unit Dwelling                    covered space shall be designated for
                                        each unit.
                                        One and one-half covered or uncovered
Two-Unit Dwellings, Three-Unit          spaces per dwelling unit.
Dwellings, and Multi-Unit Dwellings     Guest Parking: One uncovered space per
                                        10 units.
Multi-Unit Dwellings within Mixed-Use   One space for each dwelling unit.
Projects
                                        Refer to
Accessory Dwelling Unit/Junior          Chapter 10.52  (Accessory Dwelling
Accessory Dwelling Unit                 Unit) and
                                        Chapter 10.54  (Junior Accessory
                                        Dwelling Unit)
Multi-Unit Dwellings within Senior      One-half space per unit.
Citizen Projects                        Guest Parking: one space per five
                                        units.
Family Day Care                         None in addition to what is required
                                        for the residential use.
Single Room Occupancy (SRO)             One-half space per unit.
Community Care, Large (7 or more        Two spaces for the owner-manager plus
persons)                                one for every five beds and one for
                                        each non-resident employee.
Community Care, Small (up to 6 persons) None in addition to what is required
                                        for the residential use.
                                        If less than six residents = none other
                                        than what is required for the
Supportive Housing                      residential use.
                                        If more than six residents = One-half
                                        space per bed plus one visitor space
                                        per 10 beds.
Transitional Housing                    None in addition to what is required
                                        for the residential use.
   Public and Semi-Public Uses
Colleges and Trade Schools, Public or   One space for each employee, including
Private                                 teachers and administrators, plus one
                                        space for each three adult students.
                                        One space for each 60 square feet of
                                        floor area used for seating if seats
                                        are not fixed, or one space for each
Place of Assembly                       five seats. School classrooms
                                        associated with a place of assembly do
                                        not require parking in addition to that
                                        required for place of assembly seating.
Day Care Centers                        One space per employee plus two loading
                                        spaces.
Emergency Shelters                      One space per 500 square feet of floor
                                        area.
Hospitals and Clinics or Urgent Care    One space per 250 square feet of floor
                                        area.
                                        Elementary and Middle Schools: one
                                        space for each employee including
                                        teachers, administrators, and
                                        custodians, plus one space for each 50
Schools, Public or Private              students enrolled.
                                        High School: one space for each
                                        employee including teachers,
                                        administrators, and custodians, plus
                                        one space for each 25 students
                                        enrolled.
   Commercial Uses
   Vehicle Sale and Services
                                        Two spaces for self-service station.
Vehicle Fueling Station (including      See Retail Stores and Personal Service
alternative fuels and electrical        for parking requirements for
vehicle (EV) charging stations)         Convenience Stores accessory to a
                                        vehicle fueling station.
                                        One space per 500 square feet of
Vehicle Rental                          office/rental area.
                                        One space per 5,000 square feet of
                                        outdoor rental storage area.
                                        One space per 5,000 square feet of new
Vehicle Sales and Leasing               display area and requirements of
                                        automobile repair where applicable.
                                        One space for every two service bays.
Vehicle Repair                          One space per 500 square feet of non-
                                        service bay floor area.
                                        One space for each washing stall, not
Vehicle Washing                         including the stall.
                                        Two spaces if self-service station.
   Commercial/Retail Sales and Services
Banks and Financial Institutions        One space per 400 square feet of floor
                                        area.
                                        Athletic Clubs/Fitness Centers: one
                                        space per 200 square feet of floor
                                        area.
Entertainment and Recreation            Bowling Alleys: one space per lane.
                                        Theaters: one space per 20 seats.
                                        Other places of assembly without fixed
                                        seats: one space for each 60 square
                                        feet used for assembly.
                                        Drive-Through Only (no seating): one
                                        space per employee.
                                        Restaurants and Coffee Shops/Cafes,
                                        Quick Service: one space per 350 square
Eating and Drinking Establishments      feet of floor area.
                                        Restaurants, Full Service: one space
                                        per 200 square feet of floor area.
                                        Bars/Nightclub/Lounge: one space per
                                        500 square feet of floor area.
                                        One space for every 60 square feet. of
Funeral Parlors and Internment Services assembly area, plus one space per 250
                                        square feet. of office area.
   Food and Beverage Sales
Convenience Store                       See Retail Stores and Personal Service.
Liquor Store                            One space per 450 square feet of floor
                                        area.
   Lodging
Hotels and Motels                       One space per each room plus one space
                                        for every two employees.
   Mixed Uses
See "Unified Centers"
   Offices
Business and Professional Offices       One space per 500 square feet of floor
                                        area.
Medical/Dental Clinic or Offices        One space per 400 square feet of floor
(Includes Veterinary Services)          area.
Retail Stores and Personal Service      One space per 400 square feet of floor
                                        area.
Retail Stores which only handle large   One space per 600 square feet of floor
merchandise (household appliances, farm area.
implements and machinery)
Swap Meet/Flea Markets                  Five spaces per vendor, plus 10 spaces
                                        per one-half acre of gross use area.
   Industrial Uses
                                        One space per 1,000 square feet of
Animal Product Processing               gross floor area, plus one space for
                                        each two employees.
Brewery, Distillery, Winery with        One space for each 750 square feet of
Tasting Room                            gross floor area, plus one space for
                                        each two employees.
Brewery, Distillery, Winery without     One spaces for each 5,000 square feet
Tasting Room                            of gross floor area, plus one space for
                                        each two employees.
Industrial, Minor                       One spaces for each 2,500 square feet
Industrial, Major                       of gross floor area, plus one space for
Industrial, Hazardous                   each facility vehicle.

Junkyard                                One space for every 1,000 square feet
                                        of gross floor area.
Refuse Disposal Site                    One space for every 1,000 square feet
                                        of gross floor area.
Salvage and Dismantling Facility        One space for every 1,000 square feet
                                        of gross floor area.
                                        Minimum three parking spaces. One space
Storage Facility, Personal              per 200 storage units, plus one space
                                        per 300 square feet of office area.
                                        Minimum three parking spaces. One space
Storage Facility, Restricted            per 200 storage units, plus one space
                                        per 300 square feet of office area.
Warehousing and Distribution Facility   One space per 1,000 square feet of
                                        gross floor area.
Manufacturing, warehouse, wholesale,    One space per 1,000 square feet of
and distribution uses                   gross floor area.
   Unified Centers
Uses within a unified center as defined Three spaces for each 1,000 square feet
in Article 8 (Definitions).             of gross leasable area.
Uses not within a unified center as     The number of spaces otherwise required
defined in Article 8 (Definitions).     for the type of use by provisions of
                                        this Chapter.
   Utilities
Electric distribution substations,
electric transmission substations, gas  One space for each three employees of
regulator stations, public utility      the maximum working shift, plus one
pumping stations, reservoirs, water or  space for each company vehicle stored
gas storage tank farms, sewage          on the site. Where such facility is
treatment plants and other public       unmanned, no spaces need be provided.
utility structures and uses
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.38.040: SHARED PARKING:
Upon written application by the owner or lessee of any property, the shared use
of parking facilities by the following uses or activities may be authorized as
specified in this Chapter:
   A.   The off-street parking required for a use considered to be primarily a
daytime use may be provided as the parking facilities of a use considered to be
primarily a nighttime use, provided, however, that such parking area shall meet
the conditions identified in Section
10.38.030.
      1.   The following uses are considered typical daytime uses: banks,
business offices, retail stores, personal service shops, clothing or shoe
repair or service shops, manufacturing or wholesale structures and similar
uses. The following uses are considered typical nighttime uses: theaters, bars,
auditoriums other than those incidental to a public or private school, places
of assembly, and similar uses.
      2.   The following are conditions required for shared use of parking
facilities:
         a.   The parking facility shall be located within six hundred feet
(600') of such use.
         b.   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict in
the principal operating hours of the building or uses for which the shared use
of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
         c.   If the use, structure, or improvement requiring off street
parking is in one ownership and the required parking space provided is in
another ownership, partially or wholly, there shall be a written agreement or
authorization provided to the City where such owner or owners will commit to
maintaining such parking space so long as said structure or improvement is
maintained by said owner. The written agreement or authorization required shall
stipulate that the Title to and right to use the parcel or parcels upon which
the parking space is to be provided will be subservient to the Title to the
premises upon which the building is to be erected and that said parcel or
parcels are not and will not be made subject to any other covenant or contract
for use without prior written consent of the City. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.38.050: OFFSITE PARKING FACILITIES:
Parking facilities may be provided off site provided the following conditions
are met.
   A.   Location. Offsite parking facilities shall comply with the following
location standards:
      1.   Residential Uses. Any offsite parking facility shall be located
within six hundred feet (600') of the unit or use served, measured by the
shortest route of pedestrian access.
      2.   Nonresidential Uses. Any offsite parking facility shall be located
within six hundred feet (600') of the principal entrance containing the use(s)
for which the parking is required, measured by the shortest route of pedestrian
access, and all parking spaces are located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the perimeter of the parcel or building site.
      3.   Exception. In all commercial zone districts, off street parking
facilities may be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of the use for
which the spaces are required, measured by the shortest route of pedestrian
access.
   B.   Parking Agreement. A written agreement shall be recorded between the
landowner(s) and the City in a form satisfactory to the Community Development
Director shall include:
      1.   A guarantee among the landowner(s) for access to and use of the
parking facility; and
      2.   A guarantee that the spaces to be provided will be maintained and
reserved for the uses served for as long as such uses are in operation. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.38.060: PARKING FACILITY DESIGN STANDARDS:
All off-street parking areas shall be designed and developed consistent with
the following regulations:
   A.   Drive Aisle Dimensions.  All parking areas shall have sufficient room
for turning and maneuvering vehicles and shall be provided on the parcel in
compliance with the following:
      1.   Minimum drive aisle width for two-way traffic with ninety-degree
(90°) parking on both sides: twenty-seven feet (27').
      2.   Minimum drive aisle width for two-way traffic with ninety-degree
(90°) parking on one side: twenty-four feet (24').
      3.   Minimum drive aisle width for two-way traffic without parking on
either side or without parking on both sides: twenty feet (20').
      4.   Minimum drive aisle width for one-way traffic with parking on either
side or with parking on both sides: sixteen feet (16') .
      5.   Minimum drive aisle width for one-way traffic without parking on
either side or without parking on both sides: twelve feet (12').
   B.   Bumper Rails. Bumper rails or other barriers shall be provided where
needed for safety or to protect property, as determined by the Community
Development Director.
   C.   Ingress and Egress. Entrances and exits to parking lots and other
parking facilities shall not be more than necessary to allow access in and out
of the parcel and/or structure, as determined by the Community Development
Director and the City Engineer.
   D.   Minimum Dimensions for Residential Garages and Carports. Garages and
carports serving residential uses shall be constructed to meet the following
minimum inside dimensions.
      1.   A single car garage or carport shall have a minimum inside dimension
of eleven and a half feet (11.5') in width by eighteen feet (18') in length.
      2.   A two (2)-car garage or carport shall have a minimum inside
dimension of twenty feet (20') in width by eighteen feet (18') in length.
      3.   The vertical clearance for garage or carport parking spaces shall
not be less than seven feet six inches (7'6").
      4.   To determine the existing number of garage spaces for an existing
dwelling unit the following dimensions shall apply:
         a.   An existing garage with minimum interior dimensions of eight and
a half feet (8.5') in width and eighteen feet (18') in length shall qualify as
one existing enclosed parking space.
         b.   An existing garage with minimum interior dimensions of seventeen
feet (17') in width and eighteen feet (18') in length shall qualify as two (2)
existing enclosed parking spaces.
         c.   If the minimum interior dimensions of an existing garage parking
space exceed the minimum dimensions in this Subsection, the existing enclosed
space dimensions shall be maintained.
   E.   Minimum Parking Space Dimensions. Each parking space shall not be less
than twenty feet (20') in length and nine feet in width, exclusive of drive
aisles. Variations in the length of the parking space are allowed subject to
approval by the Community Development Director and can include wheel stops and
curb overhangs if the overall length is twenty feet (20'), and as long as a
four-foot (4') path of travel is maintained around the overhang if parking
spaces abut a walking path or sidewalk.
   F.   Compact Parking. Compact parking shall be evenly distributed in parking
areas or levels; it may not be located within twenty-five feet (25') of a ramp,
driveway, or ground floor pedestrian entrance. The following provisions shall
apply to a proposed parking lot with compact parking spaces:
      1.   Compact spaces shall be a minimum of eight and a half feet (8.5') in
width and sixteen and a half feet (16.5') in length.
      2.   Up to thirty percent (30%) of the parking spaces in any given
parking lot in the commercial, industrial, or multi-unit residential zone
districts may be designated as compact spaces. Other long-term parking areas
may also be considered by the Community Development Director. Single-unit
dwellings shall not use compact spaces.
      3.   Before any compact spaces are allowed, five standard size stalls
shall be provided. These five (5) standard size spaces shall be located on the
parcel closest to the main structure entrance.
      4.   At least fifty percent (50%) of the standard size spaces, excluding
the required five minimum and the required ADA-compliant parking spaces, shall
be located on the parcel closest to the main entrance (up to twenty-five (25)
spaces). On parcels exceeding seventy (70) spaces, twenty-five (25) standard
size and the required ADA-compliant spaces shall be located on the parcel
closest to the main entrance.
      5.   All compact parking spaces shall be clearly designated by pavement
markings or signs.
   G.   Electric Vehicle (EV) Parking Standards. Electric vehicle parking
standards for all uses and zoning districts established by this Title shall
comply with Government Code Section 65850.7 and California Green Building Code
Standards.
   H.   Repair and Maintenance Prohibited. No commercial repair work or
servicing of vehicles shall be conducted on a parking site unless screened from
public view.
   I.   Lighting. Parking areas shall have lighting capable of providing
adequate illumination for security and safety. Lighting standards shall be
energy efficient and in scale with the height and use of adjacent uses.
Lighting shall be so arranged as to deflect the light away from adjoining
properties.
   J.   Parking Screening, Fencing, and Landscaping. Parking facilities shall
comply with the following screening, fencing, and landscaping standards:
      1.   In a PO or C District, not less than fifty percent (50%) of the
interior of an off-street parking area shall be landscaped with trees and other
allowed landscape materials within ten (10) years of planting. Landscaped areas
shall be distributed throughout the parking area to the extent practical in
consideration of the size and design of the parking area.
      2.   Where an off street parking area in a commercial zoning district
adjoins an R or RM zoning district, a solid decorative-style wall or fence
shall be located on the property line adjacent to such districts, except in a
required front setback and within the area of a corner parcel on the street
side of a diagonal line connecting points located thirty feet (30') along the
property lines as measured from the intersection of the property lines at the
street corner. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.38.070: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability. Loading spaces are required when a structure is to be
occupied by a manufacturing establishment, storage facility, warehouse
facility, retail store, eating and drinking, wholesale store, market, hotel,
hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry-cleaning establishment, or other similar uses
requiring the receipt or distribution by vehicles or trucks of material or
merchandise for every new structure. The regulations in this Section shall
apply to existing and proposed uses with new structures, additions, or changes
of use, and shall govern design of both required and non-required loading
areas.
   B.   Loading Space Design Requirement. Required loading spaces shall comply
with Table 10.38-B (Loading Space Requirements).
Table 10.38-B
Loading Space Requirements
Table 10.38-B
Loading Space Requirements
Square Footage              Required Loading Spaces
0-6,999 square feet         0
7,000-40,000 square feet    1
40,001-90,000 square feet   2
90,001-150,000 square feet  3
150,001-230,000 square feet 4
230,001+ square feet        1 per each 100,000 square feet of portion thereof
 
   C.   Multi-Tenant Structures.  The square footage of the entire structure
shall be used in determining spaces for multi-tenant structures. A common
loading area may be required if each tenant space is not provided with a
loading area. Drive-in, roll-up doors for multi-tenant industrial projects may
be substituted for required loading areas.
   D.   Reduction in Number of Loading Spaces Required. The loading space
requirement may be waived if the Community Development Director finds that the
applicant has satisfactorily demonstrated that due to the nature of the
proposed use, such loading space will not be needed.
   E.   Additional Loading Spaces Required. The required number of loading
spaces shall be increased to ensure that trucks will not be loaded, unloaded,
or stored on public streets. Such requirement shall be based on the anticipated
frequency of truck pickups and deliveries and of the truck storage requirements
of the use for which the on-site loading spaces are required.
   F.   Location. The location of off-street loading areas shall comply with
following:
      1.   All required loading areas shall be located on the same parcel as
the use served.
      2.   No loading berth for vehicles over two-ton capacity shall be closer
than fifty feet (50') to any property in a Residential Zoning district unless
completely enclosed by building walls, or a uniformly solid fence or wall, or
any combination thereof, not less than ten feet (10') in height.
      3.   No allowable or required loading berth shall be located within
twenty-five feet (25') of the nearest point of any street intersection.
   G.   Alley Access. When the parcel upon which the loading spaces are located
abuts any alley, such loading space shall adjoin or have access from said alley
unless determined otherwise by the Community Development Director.
   H.   Dimensions. Loading spaces shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in
width, forty feet (40') in length, with a fourteen-foot (14') vertical
clearance.
   I.   Lighting. Loading areas shall have lighting capable of providing
adequate illumination for security and safety. Lighting standards shall be
energy efficient and in scale with the height and use of adjacent uses.
Lighting shall be so arranged as to deflect the light away from adjoining
properties.
   J.   Driveways for Ingress and Egress and Maneuvering Areas. Each on-site
loading space required by this Section shall be provided with driveways for
ingress and egress and maneuvering space of the same type and meeting the same
criteria required for on-site parking spaces. Truck-maneuvering areas shall not
encroach into required parking areas, travel ways, or street rights-of-way.
This requirement may be modified if the Community Development Director finds
that sufficient space is provided so that truck-maneuvering areas will not
interfere with traffic and pedestrian circulation. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.38.080: EXCEPTIONS TO PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Structures Constructed Before July 1, 2024. The parking area or space
requirements imposed by the provisions of this Code shall not apply upon a
Change of Occupancy, as defined by the Building Code, or a change in the
building code in affect at the time of the permit, for any building or
structure which was constructed before July 1, 2024.
   B.   Exceptions Within the Downtown Area. None of the provisions of this
Title which require the provision of off-street parking and off-street loading
spaces shall apply to any parcel of property which is located within the
Downtown Area as defined by the City Council of the City of Reedley. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.40
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10.40.010: Purpose and Applicability
10.40.020: Definitions
10.40.030: Sign Permit Required
10.40.040: Exempt Signs
10.40.050: Prohibited Signs And Locations
10.40.060: Signs Allowed By Zone
10.40.070: Sign Development Standards
10.40.080: Nonconforming Signs
10.40.090: Minor Deviations
10.40.100: Master Sign Program (MSP)
10.40.110: Appeals and Violations
10.40.010: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to establish regulations and
procedures for regulating signs, including the type, size, location, and
construction standards of signs by zone district. Signs have an obvious impact
on the character and quality of the City. The intent of these regulations is to
provide a set of standards for on-site and offsite signs to safeguard the life,
health, property, and the public welfare, while encouraging creativity, variety
and compatibility and enhancement of the image of the City.
   B.   Applicability. This Chapter regulates all signs on public and private
property, except where expressly stated otherwise. No sign shall be erected or
maintained anywhere in the City except in conformity with this Chapter. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.40.020: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this Chapter, this Title and the California
Building Code definitions shall apply to the construction, meaning and
application of words or phrases in this Chapter. As used in this Chapter, the
following definitions apply:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign that no longer advertises or identifies a legal business
establishment, product, or activity.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign with messages that visually change, or images that move
or appear to move, more frequently than once every twenty-four (24) hours,
regardless of the method by which the visual change is affected. This
definition does not include traditional barber poles, hand-held signs,
personally attended signs, commercial mascots, scoreboards, or signs which
merely display time or temperature. Animated signs include electronic message
signs, sometimes called electronic reader boards. A sign that displays a series
of still images which change more frequently than once per twenty-four (24)
hours, whether by digital, LED, or functionally equivalent method, is within
this definition.
AWNING: Any structure made of flexible fabric, metal, wood, or similar material
covering a frame attached to a building, whether or not the same is so erected
as to permit its being raised to a position flat against the building when not
in use.
AWNING SIGN: Any sign painted on or attached to or supported by an awning.
BANNER: Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or similar material attached to, or
appended on or from any structure, pole, line, or framing upon which there is a
temporary advertising message.
CABINET SIGN: A sign that contains all text, logo, or symbols within a single
enclosed cabinet and may or may not be illuminated. The terms "cabinet sign"
and "sign can" are used interchangeably.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign constructed or designed to allow for periodic
changes of copy, and for which the copy is changed not more than once each
twenty-four (24)-hour period. Examples include signs for an auditorium,
theater, church, meeting hall, or similar uses characterized by public assembly
and changing programs or events, or gas station prices. This definition does
not include animated signs or electronic reader board signs. A sign on which
the only copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or
temperature shall be considered a "public information sign" and not a
changeable copy sign for purposes of this Chapter.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: Any sign, other than a highway marker or any sign erected and
maintained by public authority, or a public utility which is designed, erected,
and maintained for the purpose of directing persons to a place, structure, or
activity.
DRIVE-THROUGH MENU BOARD SIGN: A sign erected as part of a drive-through
facility and used to display and order products and services available in
association with a drive-through business.
EMITTING SIGN: A sign that emits odors, visible smoke, vapor, or particles, or
produces noise or sounds that can be heard at the property line.
EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign which has light cast on its surface from an
artificial exterior source installed for the purpose of illuminating the sign.
FEATHER FLAG: A portable advertising medium, mounted on a pole that resembles a
sail.
FLAG: Any fabric or banner containing distinctive colors, patterns, or design
that displays the symbol(s) of a nation, state, local government, company,
organization, belief system, idea, or other meaning.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A permanent sign that is self-supporting in a fixed location
and not attached to a building. Freestanding signs are of two types: monument
and pole. Freestanding signs are of two (2) types: monument and pole. Flag
poles are not within this definition.
ILLEGAL SIGN: Any sign placed without proper approval or permits as required by
the Reedley Municipal Code at the time of sign placement. Illegal sign also
means any sign placed contrary to the terms or time limits of any permit and
any illegal nonconforming sign that has not been brought into compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter.
INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign whose illumination originates from within
the structure of the sign and the source of which is not visible from the
exterior of the sign.
MONUMENT SIGN: A type of permanent sign that is attached to a sign structure,
fence, or wall that is not an integral part of a building.
OFF SITE OR OFF PREMISES SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS: Any sign not located on the same
parcel as the use, product, or service it advertises.
PEDESTRIAN ACCESS: A doorway which has been designed for the primary use of the
patrons or customers of that commercial use.
PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED SIGN: A sign which is specifically located and designed to
be viewed from a pedestrian right of way.
PENNANT: Lightweight plastic, fabric, or other materials, suspended from a
rope, wire, or string designed to move in the wind. Pennants shall not include
banners as defined in this chapter or individual flags mounted on a single
pole.
POLE SIGN: A type of permanent freestanding sign that is mounted on a pole(s)
or other support(s) that are placed on and anchored in the ground or on a base
and that is independent from any building or other structure. Flag poles are
not within this definition.
POLITICAL SIGN: A sign advertising a candidate for political office, a
political party, policy position regarding a referendum, a position concerning
a recall election, or a measure scheduled for an election.
PORTABLE SIGN: A sign which is capable of being carried or moved by manual or
mechanical means from one location to another and which is not affixed to the
ground, a structure, or a vehicle. Portable signs also include blimps and
balloons which may or may not contain an advertising message. Includes sandwich
board, tip and roll, and hinged-wind signs.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign that projects from and is supported by a wall or a
facade of a structure and are also referred to as marquee signs.
PUBLIC INFORMATION SIGN: A sign on public property open to the public that is
erected or maintained by a public agency or that serves to fulfill a permit
condition imposed by a public agency, such as a sign erected to preserve the
safe and efficient control of traffic and parking or to provide notification of
essential governmental services. Display time shall be limited to three (3)
seconds with a one (1) second interval between displays on a stationary sign.
READER BOARD: A sign indicating the name, address, and type of businesses
within a structure.
ROOF SIGN: A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a structure.
ROOFLINE: The highest point of a parapet wall of the main roof structure or the
highest point of a parapet wall other than such architectural features as
cupolas, pylons, projections or minor raised portions of the roof.
SANDWICH BOARD SIGN: A portable sign with advertising messages mounted on two
(2) surfaces with two (2) edges connected and the other two (2) edges spread so
that the two (2) faces read from different directions.
SIGN: Any words or symbols used for visual communication including its
structure and component parts intended to be used to attract attention to an
activity.
SIGN AREA: The surface area of a sign including all elements such as board or
frames, perforated or a solid background, ornamental embellishments, arrows, or
other sign media.
SIGN COPY: Any words, letters, numbers, figures, designs, or other symbolic
representations incorporated into a sign face and/or its structure with the
purpose of attracting attention to the subject matter.
SIGN FACE: The panel surface of a sign which carries the advertising or
identification message.
SIGN HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the uppermost point used in measuring
the area of a sign to ground level of the foundation of the sign.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Any structure which supports or can support any sign. A sign
structure may or may not be an integral part of a building. For the purpose of
a freestanding sign, the sign structure shall include the aggregate area of the
sign including the sign copy and all structural elements of the sign.
SPECIAL EVENTS SIGN: Any sign advertising specific temporary events, such as
carnivals, festivals, exhibits, or parades, promotional sales, or grand
openings.
STATUE: A multiple-dimensional representation, including a sculpture. A statue
that contains commercial speech is a sign.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change to the integrity of a sign structure.
SUBDIVISION OR MULTIPLE UNIT HOUSING ENTRANCE SIGN: A sign identifying the name
of a subdivision or multi-unit residential dwelling project and consisting of
letters or symbols attached to a wall or a fence or freestanding sign located
within the boundaries of a recorded and developed subdivision or multi-unit
residential dwelling project.
TEMPORARY SUBDIVISION SIGN: A sign erected and maintained within the boundaries
of a recorded subdivision and indicating the name of the subdivision, the name
of the contractor and/or subdivider, the name of the owner and/or agent, and
giving information regarding directions, price or terms concerning the sale or
lease of parcels within the subdivision.
UNIFIED CENTER: A group of two (2) or more office, commercial or industrial
uses planned and designed to function as an integral unit on a single parcel or
contiguous parcels and which use common off-street parking and access,
landscaping, loading facilities and points of ingress and egress. Also known as
a Shopping Center or Unified Shopping Center.
WALL SIGN: A sign attached to or erected against the wall or facade of a
structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the plane of
the wall or facade.
WIND SIGN: Any display of streamers, pennants, whirligigs, or similar devices
made of flexible lightweight material, strung together, or attached in such a
manner as to move by wind pressure.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign viewable through or affixed in any manner to a window or
exterior glass door such that it is viewable from the exterior, including signs
located inside a structure but visible primarily from the outside of the
structure. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.40.030: SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Sign Permits. All signs, including banners, shall require a permit and
payment of applicable processing fees as provided in the Master Fee Schedule
unless exempted by this Chapter. No permit shall be issued unless the sign is
consistent with this Chapter, any applicable sign program, specific plan, or
the General Plan.
   B.   Administration.  Except for window signs, no sign may be placed or
erected without written approval issued by the Community Development Director
including banner signs and portable signs. In addition, building permits shall
be required for the erection of signs, except painted, window, or temporary
signs, following the issuance of written approval by the Director.
   C.   Applications. Applications for sign approval shall be made upon forms
provided by the Community Development Department. In addition to the
information supplied on the sign application form, supplemental information may
be required as deemed necessary by the Director, including, but not limited to,
engineered footing and foundation details for freestanding signs.
   D.   Review of Sign Applications. Permission for installation of a sign
shall be issued only after review by the Community Development Director who
shall approve, deny, or conditionally approve the sign application on the basis
that it conforms to the purpose and the standards of this Chapter.
   E.   Referral to Planning Commission. The Community Development Director, at
their discretion, may refer any application to the Planning Commission, which
may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the sign application. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.40.040: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following Signs and devices shall not be subject to the provisions of this
Chapter:
   A.   Address Signs.  Required address identification signs that are in
compliance with the California Building Code.
   B.   Governmental Signs. Signs placed by a governmental body or public
utility, required to be maintained by law, including, legal notices and such
temporary emergency or non-advertising signs as may be authorized by the City
Council.
   C.   Memorial. Memorial tablets or plaques placed by recognized historical
agencies.
   D.   Government Flags.  Flags of the national or State government.
   E.   Traffic Signs. Traffic or other signs erected by government agencies,
signs required by law or contract with a governmental agency and railroad
crossing signs.
   F.   Holiday Celebration Signs. Decorations or window signs to celebrate
nationally recognized holidays and local events.
   G.   Permanent Window Signs. Permanent window signs including hours of
operation, credit card signs and similar ancillary business signs.
Additionally, "open", "closed" and "help wanted" signs may be placed. Signs
indicating "open" and "closed" may be illuminated.
   H.   Political Signs.  Political signs, that adhere to the following
regulations:
      1.   Political signs are allowed on privately owned parcels with
permission of the property owner.
      2.   The combined area of a sign by any one candidate on any one parcel
shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet.
      3.   Political signs shall not be attached to trees, fence posts, or
utility poles.
      4.   Political signs shall not be illuminated either directly or
indirectly.
      5.   No political sign or portion thereof shall be placed in any street
right-of-way or on any City owned property.
      6.   No sign shall be placed in a corner cutoff area, or within thirty
feet (30') of intersecting curb lines of a street intersection or placed in
such a manner as to interfere with pedestrian traffic.
      7.   Political signs shall not be erected or placed more than sixty (60)
days before the date of the election.
      8.   All political signs shall be removed within fourteen (14) days
following the date of the election. Signs not removed within this period may be
removed by the City and the cost of removal assessed against the candidate.
   I.   Real Estate Signs.  It is the intent of the City Council, for purposes
of promoting the local economy, tourism, and for further purposes of
beautifying the City, to adopt standards regarding real estate signs, their
location and design.
      1.   For Sale or Lease. On-site or structure signs not exceeding four (4)
square feet for single-unit or two-unit dwellings, and sixteen (16) square feet
for multi-unit dwellings, business, and industrial sites of up to two (2) acres
in area, thirty-two (32) square feet total sign area for multifamily, business,
and industrial sites of two (2) acres or larger, and one in number per street
frontage.
      2.   Open House, On Site. On-site or structure signs, between the hours
ten o’clock (10:00) a.m. and seven o'clock (7:00) p.m. daily, not exceeding
four square feet per sign and one in number per site or structure.
      3.   Open House; Offsite Residential.  Open house signs, including for
two- and three-unit dwellings, between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) a.m.
and seven o’clock (7:00) p.m. daily, not exceeding four (4) square feet per
sign and one in number in the neighborhood of sales; not to be located in any
center median of a public road or in a sidewalk right-of-way; and directional
arrows with addresses not exceeding six (6) in number in the neighborhood of
sales. In adopting this exemption for off site residential open house signs,
the City Council finds as follows:
         a.   The City has a compelling interest to exempt certain signs to
further the purpose and objectives of this chapter and to allow for the use of
signs with minimal aesthetic impact because of their size and temporary nature.
         b.   The single-unit residential real estate industry is distinct from
other industries in that there are generally no storefronts available for
advertising and most homes are not located adjacent to heavily traveled
streets. This makes offsite signs that advertise available homes necessary for
potential buyers to find them.
         c.   Real estate signs do not advertise goods or services, but actual
locations. Directing potential buyers to an available home is necessary to
facilitate real estate transactions as potential buyers shall be able to find
and view the available homes.
         d.   Single-unit residential real estate sales are temporary and
infrequent as opposed to sales from commercial businesses. Exempting single-
unit residential open house real estate signs will not lead to a proliferation
of unsightly signs because they will be used only during very limited times
when there is an open house, will be removed at the end of each day of use, and
once a home is sold will no longer be used.
         e.   Exempting offsite open house real estate signs is necessary to
allow homeowners to efficiently advertise and sell their properties as quickly
as possible and to assist potential buyers in finding available homes within
our community. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.40.050: PROHIBITED SIGNS AND LOCATIONS:
Unless expressly allowed by another section of this Chapter or other applicable
law, the following sign types, locations, and materials are prohibited:
   A.   Any sign that is not permanently mounted or attached to a vehicle
parked for the purpose of calling attention to or advertising a special
business establishment.
   B.   Any sign or sign structure which has become a public nuisance due to
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, or abandonment.
   C.   Any sign which obstructs in any manner the ingress to, or egress from,
a door, window, fire escape, or other accessway required by building codes
adopted by the city.
   D.   Illegal Signs.
   E.   Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a
business conducted or a product sold as prescribed in this Chapter.
   F.   Any sign which encroaches into any City right-of-way and/or easement,
except an under canopy sign or projecting sign.
   G.   Pole signs.
   H.   Feather flags.
   I.   Any sign that flashes, blinks, moves, changes color, appears to change
color, changes intensity, or contains any part or attachment which does the
same.
   J.   Any unofficial sign, signal or device, or any sign, signal or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which
hides from view any official sign or signal.
   K.   Any light of any color of such brilliance as to blind or dazzle the
vision of drivers upon any roadway or highway nor shall any light be placed in
such position as to prevent the driver of a vehicle from readily recognizing
any traffic sign or signal.
   L.   Any sign located so that it interferes with visibility at an
intersection, public right-of-way, driveway, or other ingress/egress.
   M.   Any sign attached to any tree, either on public and or private
property.
   N.   Any sign using the City of Reedley's logo, official sign and seal, on
public or private property, without the City of Reedley's permission.
   O.   Any sign erected or maintained which has less horizontal or vertical
clearance from communication lines and energized electrical power lines than
that prescribed by the state, or rules and regulations duly promulgated by
agencies thereof.
   P.   Off Site or Off Premises Signs and Billboards.
   Q.   Emitting Signs.
   R.   Any sign which, in the opinion of the Community Development Director
and based upon applicable legal standards, is in conflict with the spirit or
intent of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.40.060: SIGNS ALLOWED BY ZONE:
Signs allowed by zoning district are listed as follows:
   A.   Residential Zone Districts. Signs in residential zoning districts shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Address Numbers and Nameplates. Address numbers and nameplates shall
be allowed subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Maximum Size. Address numbers and nameplates shall be limited to
a maximum two (2) square feet, or as otherwise required by the California
Building Code.
         b.   Placement. Nameplates shall be affixed flush to the subject
structure.
      2.   "For rent" and "for sale" signs shall be allowed.
      3.   For subdivisions, residential developments, and mobile home parks,
no more than one sign shall be erected at each driveway entrance to the
development. Signs shall not exceed sixty-four (64) square feet for all
readable surfaces, nor exceed ten feet (10') in height.
      4.   For subdivisions under construction, temporary signage and feather
flags may be located within active construction sites for a period not to
exceed two (2) years from the date of the last building permit issued on the
construction site. No permits required.
      5.   Public and quasi-public/institutional uses such as schools and
places of assembly shall comply with the allowed signage in the Neighborhood
Commercial (CN), Central and Community Commercial (CC), Commercial Service
(CS), and Industrial (I) Zone Districts.
      6.   Urban Reserve and Resource Conservation Open Space (UR and RCO) Zone
Districts. One freestanding or one flush mounted sign shall be allowed on the
property. Signs shall be limited to one hundred and fifty (150) square feet for
wall signs and limited to twenty feet (20') in height and sixty-four (64)
square feet in area if a freestanding sign. Sign limitations shall not apply to
airports, heliports, and helipads that are owned, operated, and under the
control of the City of Reedley. Public and quasi-public/institutional uses such
as schools and places of assembly shall comply with the allowed signage in the
Neighborhood Commercial (CN), Central and Community Commercial (CC), Commercial
Service (CS), and Industrial (I) Zone Districts.
   B.   Professional Office (PO) and Commercial Office (CO) Zone Districts.
Signs in professional office and commercial office zoning districts shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Wall Signs. Wall signs shall comply with the following:
         a.   Maximum Height. Not to exceed the top of the vertical wall
surface on which the sign is mounted. Signs mounted on a pitched roof may not
extend beyond the peak of the ridgeline of the roof.
         b.   Maximum Sign Area. One hundred and fifty (150) square feet of
sign area allowed per wall.
         c.   Number Per Business. One (1) wall sign is allowed on each wall
with a public (customer) entrance or service window, or on each wall visible
from a public street, other than a local residential street.
      2.   Canopy and Awning Signs. Canopy and awning signs shall comply with
the following:
         a.   Number Of Signs. One per canopy. Awning signs may be used in
addition to or instead of wall signs on the same structure façade.
         b.   Maximum Area. The sign area on each surface of an awning shall
not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the area of the individual surface.
         c.   Location and Colors. Awning signs shall be made of removable
materials and may be located on one of the three (3) exterior surfaces of a
canopy.
      3.   Freestanding Signs. Freestanding signs shall comply with the
following:
         a.   Maximum Height. Eight feet (8'), including base of sign.
         b.   Maximum Sign Area. Thirty-five (35) square feet per sign face.
         c.   Sign Design. Freestanding signs shall be designed as a monument
sign with a solid base extending a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the width
of the base, unless a different design is architecturally appropriate, as
determined by the Community Development Director. Individual businesses that
are listed on a freestanding sign for a multi-tenant site shall be limited to
primary tenants, as determined by the Director or their designee.
         d.   Number Per Site. One (1) freestanding sign will be allowed per
property.
         e.   Setbacks. A freestanding sign shall be set back a minimum of
three feet from any interior side property line and five feet from any street
front property line. Freestanding signs cannot be located within thirty feet
(30') of intersecting curb lines of a street intersection. Encroachment into a
setback may be allowed by the Community Development Director where the location
of existing improvements presents a functional hardship in compliance with the
required setback.
      4.   Directional Signs. Directional signs shall comply with the
following:
         a.   Maximum Height. Five feet (5').
         b.   Maximum Sign Area. Ten (10) square feet.
         c.   Number Per Site. One (1) per driveway from a drive-through lane,
public street or alley. Additional signs meeting the maximum height and area
may be allowed if they are not visible from the public rights of way.
         d.   Location. Within five feet (5') of a driveway that accesses the
parcel from a public street or alley. Placement of directional signs shall
ensure the sight safety of vehicles entering/leaving a parcel is not
compromised.
   C.   Neighborhood Commercial (CN), Central and Community Commercial (CC),
Commercial Service (CS), and Industrial (I) Zone Districts. Signs in the
neighborhood commercial, central and community commercial, commercial service,
and industrial zoning districts shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Wall Signs. Wall signs shall comply with the following:
         a.   Maximum Height. Not to exceed the top of the vertical wall
surface on which the sign is mounted. Signs mounted on a pitched roof may not
extend beyond the peak of the ridgeline of the roof.
         b.   Maximum Sign Area. Three hundred (300) square feet of sign area
allowed per wall.
         c.   Location on Wall. Wall signs shall be mounted flush against the
building and shall not project above the roof ridge or the top of the parapet.
         d.   Projecting Signs Included. Wall signs may include projecting
signs, subject to the following limitations:
            (1)   Maximum Height and Projection. Not to exceed roofline of wall
or structure to which projecting sign is attached. (Note: Bottom of sign shall
be a minimum of eight feet (8') from ground to provide proper clearance).
            (2)   Calculation of Area. One (1) square foot of sign area for
each linear foot of building frontage of the business to which sign pertains.
            (3)   Maximum Area. One hundred (100) square feet.
            (4)   Location. Projecting signs may extend over public rights of
way including public sidewalks not to exceed two-thirds of the distance from
the structure face to which the sign is attached to the curb face of said
sidewalk. This includes signs that have architectural features such as pop-out
elements visible from a public right-of-way.
            (5)   Overall Size. Calculation of sign area is included in overall
allowable square footage of wall signs.
      2.   Canopy and Awning Signs. Canopy and awning signs shall comply with
the following:
         a.   Number Of Signs. Awning signs may be used in addition to or
instead of allowable wall signs on the same building façade.
         b.   Maximum Sign Area. The area of signs on each surface of an awning
shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the area of the individual
surface.
         c.   Location And Colors.  Awning signs may be made of metal or other
removable materials and may be located on one of the three exterior surfaces of
a canopy.
      3.   Freestanding Signs. Freestanding signs shall comply with the
following:
         a.   Maximum Height. Twenty feet (20'), including base and supports.
         b.   Maximum Sign Area. Sixty-four (64) square feet per sign face.
         c.   Animated Signs. Animated signs shall be permitted on freestanding
signs and shall be included in the calculation of maximum sign area.
         d.   Sign Design. Freestanding signs shall be designed as a monument
sign with a solid base extending a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the width
of the base, unless a different design is architecturally appropriate, as
determined by the community development director or their designee.
         e.   Number Per Site. Up to two (2) freestanding signs will be allowed
per commercial or industrial site.
         f.   Sign Bases and Frames. Freestanding signs shall be either housed
in a frame, or set onto a base, presenting a solid, attractive, and well-
proportioned appearance. The size and shape of the frame or base shall be
proportionate to the size and mass of the sign and should be low profile in
design. Pole type signs are not allowed.
         g.   Setbacks. A freestanding sign shall be set back a minimum of
three feet (3') from any interior side property line and five feet (5') from
any street front property line. In compliance with Section
10.30.060  (Corner Cutoff Areas), placement of freestanding signs shall ensure
the sight safety of vehicles entering/leaving a parcel is not compromised.
Encroachment into a setback or into a corner cutoff area may be allowed by the
Community Development Director or their designee if the location of existing
improvements presents a functional hardship in compliance with the required
setback and the proposed location would not be detrimental to public health,
safety, or welfare.
         h.   Exception. Unified Centers or shopping centers shall be allowed
one (1) freestanding sign within fifty feet (50') of each vehicular access
point into the center consistent with an approved master sign program.
         i.   Landscaping. Freestanding signs shall be located in a landscaped
area proportionate to the size of the sign. Landscaping may be waived by the
Community Development Director or their designee where the location of existing
improvements presents a functional hardship in compliance with the required
landscaping.
      4.   Directional Signs. Directional signs shall comply with the
following:
         a.   Maximum Height. Five feet (5').
         b.   Maximum Area. Ten (10) square feet.
         c.   Number Per Site. One (1) per driveway from a drive-through lane,
public street, or alley. Additional signs meeting the maximum height and area
may be allowed if they are not visible from the public rights of way.
         d.   Location. Not less than three feet (3') from a drive-through lane
or driveway that accesses the parcel from a public street or alley. In
compliance with Section 10.30.060 (Corner Cutoff Areas), placement of
directional signs shall ensure the sight safety of vehicles entering/leaving a
parcel is not compromised.
      5.   Reader Board. Reader board signs shall comply with the following:
         a.   Maximum Area. Sixty-four (64) square feet.
         b.   Maximum Height (if freestanding). Six feet (6').
         c.   Location. No reader board which is a freestanding sign may be
located closer than five feet (5') to any neighboring property line or to any
point of ingress/egress.
      6.   Temporary Signs. Temporary signs shall comply with the following:
         a.   Banners (such as those provided for special events and grand
openings).
         (1)   Maximum Height. Not to exceed roofline of nearest building or
building affixed to but in no case shall any part of a banner be higher than
thirty-five feet (35') from the surface of the ground.
         (2)   Maximum Area. Fifty (50) square feet per banner.
         (3)   Allowable Time. Banner signs may not be used for more than sixty
(60) calendar days per calendar year per event, with a maximum of four (4)
events per year.
         (4)   Number Per Business. A maximum of two (2) banner signs are
allowed for each business. For each business, one banner sign per garage bay is
allowed if hung on the inside of the bay and is not seen when the business is
closed.
         (5)   Location. Banners shall not be affixed to trees or landscaping.
         (6)   Changeable Message Sign. A business that enters into an
agreement with the City, or as part of a master sign program, to not use banner
signs, may be allowed a changeable message sign to be incorporated into its
freestanding monument sign, or as a building wall sign, provided that the
overall sign area for the business is not increased.
         b.   Pennants.  Pennants shall hang or be suspended no lower than
eight feet (8') above grade level. Pennants shall be maintained in good
condition, without rips, tears, and similar damage. No permit required.
      7.   Portable signs. Portable signs shall comply with the following:
         a.   Number Per Site. Two (2).
         b.   Location. May be placed on private sidewalk with no permit
required, or public sidewalk with approved encroachment permit, in front of the
subject business, but shall permit a minimum of four feet (4') of passage area
on sidewalk.
         c.   Allowable Display Time. During normal business hours.
      8.   Window Signs. Maximum Area. Up to fifty percent (50%) of the area of
each individual window may be covered with a window sign or graphic. No permit
required.
      9.   Pedestrian Signs. Pedestrian signs shall comply with the following:
         a.   Number. Two (2) signs per business that projects or hangs above a
sidewalk on each side of a structure with a public entrance.
         b.   Size. Each sign may be a maximum of eight (8) square feet in size
and shall hang or be suspended no lower than eight feet above grade level.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.40.070: SIGN DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Measurement for Computing Sign Area. For the purposes of this Chapter,
measurements for computing the areas of a given sign shall be made as follows:
      1.   Where a sign has two (2) faces containing sign copy which are
oriented back-to-back and separated by not more than twenty-four inches (24")
at any point, the area of the sign shall be measured using one sign face only.
      2.   Where a sign is composed of letters individually mounted or painted
on a building wall, without a border or decorative enclosure, the sign area
shall mean any area enclosed by the minimum imaginary rectangle of vertical and
horizontal lines which fully contains all extremities of each word and/or
logographic symbol of the sign.
      3.   For signs comprised of individual letters attached to the business
structure, including module letters and logographic symbols, the sign area
shall mean any area enclosed by the minimum imaginary rectangle of vertical and
horizontal lines which fully contains all extremities of each word and/or
logographic symbol of the sign. Each word and/or logographic symbol shall be
measured separately in computing the total sign area. Shadow box borders and
other border trims which are an intrinsic part of the building, either
architecturally or structurally, shall not be included in determining sign
area.
      4.   For single unit signs containing letters or logographic symbols on
cabinets or panels, the sign area shall mean the area enclosed by the minimum
imaginary rectangle of vertical and horizontal lines which fully contains the
perimeter of the cabinet or panel sign.
      5.   For projecting and freestanding signs containing letters and/or
logographic symbols, the sign area means the area enclosed by the minimum
imaginary rectangle of vertical and horizontal lines which fully contains all
extremities of the sign, supporting structures such as sign bases and columns
are not included in the sign area provided, they contain no lettering or
graphics except for addresses or required tags.
      6.   Where a sign consists of one or multiple -dimensional objects such
as balls, cubes, clusters of objects, or sculptural or statue type trademarks,
the sign area shall be measured as the area of the smallest rectangle within
which the object(s) can be enclosed, when viewed from a point where the largest
area of the object(s) can be seen.
   B.   Special Use Standards.
      1.   Drive-Through Menu Boards. No more than two drive- through menu/
order boards are allowed for each drive-through lane of a food and/or beverage
establishment. Each sign shall not exceed sixty-four (64) square feet and shall
be no taller than six feet.
      2.   Recycling Collection Facilities (Small and Large). Signs may be
installed for small and large recycling collection facilities consistent with
the following standards:
         a.   Recycling facilities may have identification signs up to a
maximum of twenty percent (20%) per wall/side or sixteen (16) square feet,
whichever is larger, in addition to informational signs on recycling
containers, in the case of a wheeled facility, the side will be measured from
the pavement to the top of the container.
         b.   Directional signs, bearing no advertising message, may be
installed if necessary to facilitate traffic circulation, or if the facility is
not visible from the public right-of-way.
         c.   The Community Development Director may authorize increases in the
number and size of signs upon findings that it is compatible with adjacent
businesses.
      3.   Gateway Signs. Gateway signs may be installed consistent with the
following standards:
         a.   Gateway sign applications shall be processed consistent with
Chapter 10.96 (Site Plan Review) of this Title.
         b.   The applicant shall enter into an agreement with the City
describing the operations and maintenance of the gateway sign. The agreement
shall be approved by the City Council. Upon approval by the City Council the
agreement shall be executed by the City Manager.
         c.   Gateway signs may be installed in locations along major
thoroughfares in the City. Only one gateway sign shall be allowed at each
intersection specified below. The allowed intersections are as follows:
            (1)   West Manning Avenue and I Street.
            (2)   North Reed Avenue and South Avenue.
            (3)   East Manning Avenue and North Buttonwillow Avenue.
            (4)   East Dinuba Avenue and South Buttonwillow Avenue.
         d.   The maximum height of any gateway sign structure shall not exceed
twenty feet (20') above adjacent grade.
         e.   Any electrically activated changeable sign, incorporated into the
design of a gateway sign, shall not have a display area greater than one
hundred and fifty (150) square feet.
         f.   The architectural design of the sign shall be a monument sign, as
defined in this Title, that is compatible with its surroundings and shall
include a city message approved by the City Manager.
         g.   Gateway signs may only contain display area messages which
include announcements for events, products, professions, businesses, and
services performed or located in the City of Reedley but not located on the
property on which the sign is located.
         h.   The sign shall not display or depict messages that are sexually
explicit, pornographic, or suggestive of these; exhibit violent activity;
advertise any adult entertainment business, products or locations; advertise
tobacco products or casinos; or display political ads.
         i.   Usage shall not create dangerous distractions for the viewing
public. Gateway signs shall not be located in the corner cutoff area in
compliance with Section 10.30.060 (Corner Cutoff Areas).
         j.   Sign display area messages shall be displayed for not less than a
static time of eight (8) seconds, with message changes being accomplished in
two seconds or less.
         k.   Sign display area messages shall not scroll, flash, or feature
animation or motion pictures.
         l.   The City shall have the ability to submit city related messages
for display which may include, but not be limited to, the following: meeting,
recreational events and activity announcements, public safety, and service
messages or other necessary or informational notices. These requested displays
noting content and duration will be provided in advance, as much as possible.
City use of announcement display time shall be provided as readily as possible.
No fees or other compensation to the property owners, tenants, sign proprietor
or any others shall be required from the City for the City's preemptive use.
         m.   The City shall have the ability to post immediate public safety
notifications and warnings as deemed necessary by the City Manager. No fees or
other compensation to the property owners, tenants, sign proprietor or any
others shall be required from the City for the City's preemptive use.
         n.   The electronics system display area of the sign shall have and
use adjustment hardware, software, or other component, to automatically
increase or reduce the brightness of the sign illuminating devices, to
accommodate the optimum brightness for viewing the message in any light
condition.
         o.   The technology currently being deployed for electronic message
center signs is from light emitting diodes (LEDs), but there may be alternate,
preferred, and superior technology available in the future. Any other
technology that operates under the requirements stated above shall not require
an ordinance change for approval. Any other technology that is not capable of
operating under the requirements stated above shall be prohibited and requires
an ordinance change before approval.
   C.   Design Criteria.
      1.   Design Compatibility. The design of all signs shall be compatible
and harmonious with the colors, materials and architecture of the building and
the immediate vicinity. Freestanding signs shall be finished with the same or
compatible materials as the structure(s) on the site.
      2.   Size. Notwithstanding applicable sign standards elsewhere in this
Chapter, sign size shall be proportionate to the size and scale of the parcel
and building upon which the sign is proposed. Sign dimensions as specified in
this Chapter are maximum allowable dimensions; it may be necessary that signs
be smaller than the maximum allowed to be proportionate in size and scale to
achieve the design objectives of this section.
      3.   Unified Center Signs. Individual tenant signs within multi-tenant
centers shall be coordinated in size, location, materials, and illumination.
      4.   Logos and Trademarks. The use of established corporate colors or
logos shall not be prohibited by this section.
      5.   Lighting Intensity. The light emitted or reflected by a sign, or
emitted by a light source, shall be of reasonable intensity and shall be
compatible with the architecture of the building and the immediate vicinity.
Artificial light sources shall be shielded to prevent light spillage, glare, or
annoyance to persons on or inside adjoining properties or to public or private
rights of way.
      6.   Illumination. Internally illuminated signs, where the entire face of
the sign is illuminated rather than just the graphics, are not consistent with
the desired character of signs within the city and are discouraged.
Illumination of established corporate logos or trademarks shall not be
prohibited by this provision.
      7.   Screening. Guywires, angle irons, braces and other support or
construction elements shall be screened or hidden from view.
      8.   Maintenance. All signs and their supporting members shall be kept in
good repair and always maintained in good structural condition. (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
10.40.080: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
The lawful use of a sign existing on the effective date of this Chapter,
although such use does not conform to the provisions of this Chapter, may be
continued; provided, however, a nonconforming sign which has been abandoned, or
the use for which it is advertised has ceased to function for a period of
twelve (12) months or more, shall be brought into conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter.
   A.   No nonconforming sign shall in any manner (except for face changes) be
structurally altered, reconstructed, or moved without being made to comply with
the provisions of this Chapter; unless the moving, alteration, or
reconstruction results in the elimination of the nonconformity.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the painting, maintenance, or
repairing of such sign, including the face and changing of copy.
   C.   If, at any time, any sign in existence or maintained on the effective
date of this Chapter, which does not conform to the provisions of this Chapter,
is destroyed by fire, accident, explosion, or act of nature, such sign may be
rebuilt in the condition prior to destruction without having to conform to the
provisions of this Title, as determined by the Community Development Director.
   D.   The Community Development Director shall immediately cause the removal
of any sign which, in their judgment is found to be within the public right-of-
way and/or easements and/or is found to place citizens in immediate peril, by
any or a combination of the following methods using sound judgment under the
circumstances:
      1.   Removal or modification of said sign by the City with business owner
(or property owner if business has ceased operations) to be billed for time and
materials.
      2.   Notification orally or in writing to the business owner causing the
removal of said signs within a twenty-four (24)-hour period or lesser period of
time, as prescribed by the Community Development Director.
      3.   Immediate citation of the business owner (or property owner if
business has ceased operations) or party responsible for said sign. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.40.090: MINOR DEVIATIONS:
   A.   Minor Deviation Allowed. A minor deviation of up to ten percent (10%)
in allowable sign area standards may be granted by the Community Development
Director, or their designee, upon written request, subject to such conditions
as the Director may impose without any notice or appeal, if the Director finds
that granting the minor deviation would not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to property and improvements in the area in which the
property is located.
   B.   Findings. A minor deviation may be granted upon making the following
findings:
      1.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
which apply to the property involved or the existing or intended use of the
property which do not apply generally to other properties in the same zoning
district.
      2.   Granting of a minor deviation will not negatively impact surrounding
properties. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.40.100: MASTER SIGN PROGRAM (MSP):
   A.   Projects Requiring a Master Sign Program. The following project require
a Master Sign Program:
      1.   Non-residential Projects. All new unified centers containing two (2)
or more existing or proposed individual uses within the professional office,
commercial, and industrial zones.
      2.   Mixed-Use Projects. All new mixed-use projects of three or more
separate non-residential tenants. On-site residential tenants may be included
in the Master Sign Program in addition to the three or more separate non-
residential tenants.
      3.   Alternative Designs. Projects which seek flexibility for sign
designs which are of a high quality, and which contribute to the attractiveness
and economic viability of their surroundings, but which do not meet the
standards for their location.
   B.   Required Submittals. An application of approval of a Master Sign
Program shall contain the following information:
      1.   A site plan showing the location of structures, parking lots,
driveways, and landscaped areas.
      2.   An accurate indication on the site plan of the proposed location of
each proposed sign and existing sign which is to remain.
      3.   List of allowed sign types (wall signs, freestanding signs, etc.).
      4.   Computation of the maximum area for individual signs, the height of
signs, and the number of freestanding signs allowed.
      5.   Sign dimensions (if tenants are not known, generic dimensions or
maximum allowed dimensions may be presented).
      6.   Color schemes, lettering, and graphic styles (if tenants are not
known, generic styles may be presented).
      7.   Lighting and sign construction materials.
      8.   Any proposed alternative sign standards that would only apply to
signs within the Master Sign Program.
   C.   Review Authority. A Master Sign Program shall be reviewed and approved
by the Community Development Director.
   D.   Required Findings. A Master Sign Program may be approved if the
following findings are made:
      1.   The proposed signs are compatible in style and character with any
structure to which the signs are to be attached, any surrounding structures,
and any adjoining signs on the parcel.
      2.   Future tenants will be provided with adequate opportunities to
construct, erect, or maintain a sign for identification.
      3.   Directional signs and business addresses are adequate for pedestrian
and vehicular circulation and emergency vehicle access.
      4.   Light and glare will not negatively affect nearby residential uses.
      5.   Additional findings for alternative designs which do not conform to
some or all the applicable sign standards:
         a.   The sign design and materials are of equal or greater quality
than existing signs in the surrounding area and the standard requirements for
signs on the parcel.
         b.   The sign design and materials of are equal or greater quality
than that which is required by the applicable sign.
         c.   The design of the proposed sign(s) would contribute positively to
the attractiveness of the area.
         d.   The alternative design would not be incompatible with nearby
residential uses.
         e.   The location of the sign would not be unnecessarily distracting
to motorists and would not cause inconvenience to pedestrians.
   E.   Conditions. Reasonable conditions of approval may be imposed by the
Community Development Director or their designee to achieve the purposes of
this Section and ensure compatibility with adjacent land uses and signs.
   F.   Appeals. Master Sign Program decisions are subject to the appeal
provisions of Section
10.40.110  (Appeals and Violations) of this Chapter.
   G.   Modifications and Amendments. The Community Development Director or
their designee may approve minor amendments to a Master Sign Program that are
in substantial conformance with the original approval. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.40.110: APPEALS AND VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Appeals. Any applicant or aggrieved person may appeal any application
under this Chapter in compliance with Section
10.88.050  (Appeals) of this Title.
   B.   Enforcement. Violations shall be processed consistent with
Chapter 10.112  (Administration and Enforcement) of this Title. (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
ARTICLE 4. STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC LAND USES
CHAPTER 10.50
STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC LAND USES
SECTION:
10.50.010: Purpose, Intent, And Applicability
10.50.020: Alcohol Beverage Sales Establishments
10.50.030: Bed And Breakfast Inns
10.50.040: Body Art
10.50.050: Density Bonus And Concessions For Affordable Housing
10.50.060: Emergency Shelters
10.50.070: Single Room Occupancy Facility (SRO)
10.50.080: Supportive And Transitional Housing
10.50.090: Mixed Use
10.50.100: Temporary Construction And/Or Sales Office
10.50.110: Mobile Home Parks
10.50.120: Mobile And Fixed Vending Establishments
10.50.130: Portable Self-Storage Containers
10.50.140: Recycling Facilities
10.50.150: Short-Term Rentals
10.50.160: Restaurant
10.50.170: Solid Waste And Recycling Enclosures
10.50.180: Utility Towers And Lines
10.50.190: Wireless Telecommunications And Cell Towers
10.50.010: PURPOSE, INTENT, AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to provide site planning,
operational, and development standards for specific land uses and activities
established in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development Standards)
that require additional standards to ensure compatibility with adjacent land
uses.
   B.   Intent. The standards and procedures established in this Chapter are
intended to ensure that all development in the City is:
      1.   Compliant with State and Federal law;
      2.   Consistent with the General Plan;
      3.   Consistent with all applicable City of Reedley and Fresno County
regulations; and
      4.   Harmonious with existing and future development.
   C.   Applicability.  The provisions of each of the following Sections apply
to the use identified in the Section title, as allowed in the applicable zoning
district by Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development Standards), or as
determined by the Community Development Director.
   D.   Measurement of Distance.  Wherever a distance or location/separation
requirement is applied in this Chapter, the distance or location/separation
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects, from one property line to another property line of the parcel on
which the use(s) is located. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.020: ALCOHOL BEVERAGE SALES ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Purpose, Intent, and Applicability. The purpose and applicability of
the standards established in this Section are as follows:
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to protect and promote
public health, safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare.
      2.   Intent. The provisions in this Section are intended to:
         a.   Protect residential, commercial, industrial, civic areas while
minimizing adverse impacts of existing uses.
         b.   Protect the public from the harmful effects attributable to the
sale of alcoholic beverages.
         c.   Provide opportunities for alcoholic beverage sale activities to
operate in a mutually beneficial relationship to each other and to other
commercial and civic services.
         d.   Provide mechanisms to address problems often associated with the
public consumption of alcoholic beverages.
         e.   Provide properly maintained alcoholic beverage sale
establishments.
      3.   Applicability. The provisions in this Section shall apply to all
alcohol beverage sales establishments where allowed in compliance with Article
2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development Standards).
   B.   Regulations for Previously Approved Alcohol Sales Establishments. Legal
alcohol sales establishments existing before the adoption of this Code shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Automated Deemed Approved Status. All land uses engaged in the sale
of alcoholic beverages, including bona fide eating places, which were legal
uses prior to the adoption of this Code, shall automatically become deemed
approved uses and shall be issued a Conditional Use Permit in compliance with
Chapter 10.100  (Conditional Use Permit). Each deemed approved use shall retain
this status if it complies with the standards established in this Section and
the conditions of the approved Conditional Use Permit issued hereunder.
      2.   Notification to Operators and/or Owners. The Community Development
Director shall notify the owner and/or operator of each deemed approved alcohol
beverage sales establishment of the use's deemed approved status. Such notice
shall be sent via certified return receipt mail as well as regular U.S. mail
and shall include a copy of the development and operational standards
established in this Section. The notice shall include the statement that the
alcohol beverage sales establishment is required to comply with the standards
of this Section; and that the use is required to comply with all other aspects
of the deemed approved regulations and Conditional Use Permit. Failure of any
person to receive notice given in compliance with this Section shall not affect
the deemed approved status of the alcohol beverage sales establishment use.
      3.   Authority to Modify or Terminate. None of the provisions established
in this Section shall restrict the Community Development Director's authority
to require modification or termination of any deemed approved alcohol beverage
sales use which does not comply with this Section and the Deemed Approved
letter issued hereunder or which has been declared a nuisance by the Chief of
Police.
      4.   Abandonment. Whenever a deemed approved use discontinues active
operation for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, such deemed approved
use shall not be resumed. Related structures may be used thereafter only for an
approved land use established in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and
Development Standards.
      5.   Retention of Deemed Approved Status. A alcohol beverage sales
establishment shall retain its deemed approved status only if it conforms with
the following standards:
         a.   The alcohol beverage sales establishment does not result in
adverse effects to the health, peace, or safety of persons residing or working
in the surrounding area.
         b.   The alcohol beverage sales establishment does not result in
repeated nuisance activities within the premises or in close proximity of the
premises, including, but not limited to, disturbance of the peace, illegal drug
activity, public drunkenness, drinking in public, harassment of passersby,
gambling, prostitution, sale of stolen goods, public urination, theft,
assaults, batteries, acts of vandalism, excessive littering, loitering,
graffiti, illegal parking, excessive loud noises, especially in the late night
or early morning hours, traffic violations, curfew violations, lewd conduct, or
police detentions and arrests, or any conduct or activity prohibited by Title
5, Chapter 1 or 8 or Title 4, Chapter 2 of the Reedley City Code.
         c.   The alcohol beverage sales establishment does not result in
violations to any applicable provision of any other City, State, or Federal
regulation, ordinance, or statute.
         d.   The alcohol beverage sales establishment's upkeep and operating
characteristics are compatible with and will not adversely affect the
livability or appropriate development of abutting properties and the
surrounding neighborhood.
   C.   Ceased Operations. If an existing alcohol sales establishment or a
deemed approved alcohol sales establishment no longer wants to sell and or
serve distilled spirits, this request shall be processed in accordance with
Chapter 10.88  (Zone Clearance).
   D.   Performance and Operational Standards Violations. The following
standards shall apply when an alcohol beverage sales establishment is accused
of being in violation with the standard established in this Section:
      1.   Public Hearing Required. Upon receiving a notice from the Chief of
Police that an alcohol beverage sales establishment is in violation of the
standards established in this Section, the Community Development Director shall
schedule a public hearing before the Planning Commission. Notification of the
public hearing shall comply with the procedures established in Section
10.110.040  (Noticing and Public Hearing Procedures).
      2.   Violations Processing Procedures. The purpose of the public hearing
is to receive testimony on whether the operating methods of the alcohol
beverages sales establishment are causing negative impacts in the surrounding
area and whether the alcohol-related Conditional Use Permit and/or deemed
approved activity should be modified, revoked, or allowed to remain the same.
      3.   At the public hearing, the Planning Commission, using their
independent judgement, shall determine whether the alcohol beverages sales
establishment conforms to the standards established in this Section, and may
continue to operate, or if reasonable changes or modifications are required to
ensure life, health, and safety concerns of the public are addressed.
      4.   The decision of the Planning Commission shall be based upon
information compiled by the Chief of Police and the Community Development
Director, and testimony from the business owner and all other interested
parties. The determination of the Planning Commission shall become final ten
(10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) after the date of
decision unless appealed to the City Council in compliance with Section
10.110.040 (Noticing and Public Hearing Procedures).
      5.   Appeals. Within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized
holidays) after imposition of conditions of approval on a deemed approved
activity and/or alcohol-related Conditional Use Permit or the revocation of
deemed approved status and/or alcohol-related Conditional Use Permit, the
following may take place:
         a.   An appeal may be taken to the City Council by the owner of a
deemed approved activity and/or alcohol-related Conditional Use Permit or any
other interested party. Such an appeal shall be made on a form prescribed by
the City. The appeal shall state specifically wherein it is claimed there was
an error or abuse of discretion by the Planning Commission or wherein its
decision is not supported by the evidence in the record. The appeal shall be
accompanied by such information as may be required to facilitate review. Upon
receipt of the appeal and the required appeal fee in accordance with the
adopted Master Fee Schedule, the City Clerk shall set the date for
consideration thereof.
         b.   The City Clerk or their designee shall give written notice to:
the applicant; the appellant in those cases where the applicant is not the
appellant; the adverse party or parties, or to the attorney, spokesperson, or
representative of such party or parties; other interested groups and
neighborhood associations who have requested notification; and to similar
groups and individuals as appropriate, of the date and place of the hearing on
the appeal.
         c.   In considering the appeal, the City Council shall determine
whether the established use conforms to the applicable performance standards
and/or conditions of approval and may continue or revoke a deemed approved
status; or require such changes in the existing use or impose such reasonable
conditions of approval as are, in its judgment, necessary to ensure conformity
to said performance standards.
         d.   The City Council shall vote on the appeal within forty-five (45)
calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) after its first hearing of
the appeal. If the City Council is unable to decide on the appeal at that
meeting, it shall appear for a vote on each regular meeting of the City Council
thereafter until decided. The decision of the City Council on the appeal to the
conditions of approval imposed by the Planning Commission shall be final.
   E.   Enforcement. The Police Department, Community Development Director, and
code enforcement shall designate the appropriate personnel to enforce the
provisions of these regulations.
   F.   Inspection and Right of Entry. The officials responsible for
enforcement of this code, or their duly authorized representatives, may enter
on any site or into any structure for the purpose of investigation, provided
they shall do so in a reasonable manner, whenever they have cause to suspect a
violation of any provision of these regulations, or whenever necessary to the
investigation of violations to the deemed approved performance standards or
conditions of approval prescribed in these regulations. An owner or occupant or
agent thereof who refuses to permit such entry and investigation shall be
guilty of infringing upon the violations and penalties as outlined in this Code
and State law and subject to related penalties thereof. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.50.030: BED AND BREAKFAST INNS:
   A.   Applicability and Where Allowed. Bed and breakfast inns, as defined in
Article 8 (Definitions), shall be allowed only in compliance with the
regulations established in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development
Standards) and this Section.
   B.   Development and Operational Standards. Bed and breakfast inns serving
tourists and visitors for sleeping facilities may be provided in existing
residential structures in compliance with the following standards:
      1.   Retention of Primary Residence. The structure shall serve as the
primary residence of the owner or manager, and the bed and breakfast use shall
be operated as an accessory use to the owner's or manager's residence.
      2.   Alteration of Existing Residential Structure.  The property proposed
for use is suitable for conversion to a bed and breakfast inn, and the
conversion will not alter the historical, architectural, or scenic character
and appearance of the property.
      3.   Parking. Parking requirements for bed and breakfast inns shall
comply with the parking regulations established in Section 10.38 (Parking and
Loading). All required parking shall not be located in a manner which detracts
from the residential appearance of the structure.
      4.   Meals. Meals served on-site shall be limited to continental
breakfasts, and no meals shall be served other than to guests of the bed and
breakfast rooms.
      5.   Adequate Utility Services Required. Adequate water and sewer
facilities shall be available or provided and said use shall not significantly
increase traffic impacts or be detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare
of the surrounding areas.
      6.   Impacts on Surrounding Land Uses. The applicant shall submit
sufficient information to enable the applicable approving entity to determine
the impact on the neighborhood.
      7.   Signs. Sign standards for bed and breakfast inns shall comply with
the standards established in
Chapter 10.40  (Sign Regulations).
      8.   Structure Conversions. Structures proposed for conversion to bed and
breakfast inns shall comply with Building Code standards upon conversion. Smoke
detectors, fire extinguishers, and any other requirements consistent with all
applicable City, State, and Federal fire codes shall be required after a review
of the premises. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.040: BODY ART:
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this Section is to establish
citywide body art facility and body art practitioner regulations. The standards
established in this Section are intended to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of all residents and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations of time, manner, and place of business to eliminate the potential
for adverse secondary effects from such businesses and activities.
   B.   Applicability. All body art facilities shall comply with the standards
established in this Section. Additionally, body art facilities shall comply
with all provisions of the California Safe Body Art Act, California Health and
Safety Code Sections 119300 and 119301, and shall obtain the required permits
from the Fresno County Department of Public Health.
   C.   Definitions. Definitions for terms used in this Section are located in
Article 8 (Definitions).
   D.   Development and Operational Standards. Every body art facility and/or
body art practitioner shall be subject to the following in addition to all
other requirements of law:
      1.   No body art facility shall operate between ten o’clock (10:00) p.m.
and eight o’clock (8:00) a.m.
      2.   All body art activity shall be performed only by body art
practitioners in a permitted and authorized body art facility, except as
otherwise specifically authorized in this Section.
      3.   Window displays shall be limited to ancillary retail items and shall
not show any areas defined in "specified anatomical areas" in Article 8
(Definitions).
      4.   Construction of a body art facility must comply with California
Health and Safety Code and the Fresno County Department of Public Health
requirements.
      5.   Decontamination and sterilization areas must meet all Fresno County
Department of Public Health requirements.
      6.   Temporary or mobile body art facilities or events are not authorized
by this Section.
   E.   Measurement of Distance. Distance shall be measured in compliance with
Subsection
10.50.010  D. (Measurement of Distance) of this Chapter.
   F.   Permanent Cosmetics or Makeup. Permanent cosmetics or makeup may be
performed as an incidental service in a beauty shop, day spa, or other service
or retail establishment, subject to the issuance of a body art practitioner
permit by the Fresno County Department of Public Health.
   G.   Permits Required. The following permits shall be obtained before the
establishment of a body art facility:
      1.   All body art facilities are required to obtain approval of a
Conditional Use Permit prior to operating as a body art facility, in compliance
with
Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use Permit).
      2.   The operator and all associated body art practitioners of the body
art facility shall obtain and comply with all permits required by the Fresno
County Department of Public Health.
      3.   All body art facilities and body art practitioners are subject to
all the requirements of the state of California Safe Body Art Act.
      4.   If, at any time, a body art facility permit is revoked by Fresno
County, all body art activities and body art practitioners shall cease
operations until the permit is reinstated.
      5.   The public health facility permit issued by Fresno County shall be
posted and exhibited at all times in an area visible to the public and clients.
      6.   All body art practitioners shall display practitioner permits issued
by Fresno County in an area visible to the public and clients.
      7.   Reedley Business License.
   H.   Permit Suspension or Revocation. A Conditional Use Permit may be
revoked or suspended upon failure to maintain the appropriate permits issued by
the Fresno County Department of Public Health or failure to adhere to
requirements of this Section and Code. Revocation proceedings shall be
initiated in accordance with Section
10.100.100  (Suspension and Revocation). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.050: DENSITY BONUS AND CONCESSIONS FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING:
   A.   Residential development shall comply with the allowability of density
bonuses, incentives, exemptions, and concessions in compliance with State
Density Bonus Law (Government Code Section 65915, as revised).
   B.   Government Code Section 65915 requires the City to provide incentives
for affordable housing, senior housing, students housing, land donations, and
childcare facilities. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.060: EMERGENCY SHELTERS:
   A.   Purpose, Intent, and Applicability. The purpose, intent, and
applicability of the regulations established in this Section are as follows:
      1.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this Section is to establish
development and operational standards for emergency shelters. The standards
established in this Section are intended to ensure needs for displaced and
homeless individuals are met. This Section shall be interpreted and applied
consistent with the policies and guidelines of the General Plan, Housing
Element, requirements of the California Government Code, and all applicable
requirements of the California Health and Safety Code.
      2.   Applicability. The standards and procedures established in this
Section shall apply to all existing and proposed emergency shelters operated
within the City. It is the sole responsibility of the operator of an emergency
shelter to ensure compliance with the standards of this Section.
   B.   Exemption. The standards established in this Section shall not apply in
situations of City or Statewide designated disasters or catastrophic
conditions, but only for the duration of the designated disaster or
catastrophic condition.
   C.   Development and Operations Standards. Emergency shelters shall comply
with all standards established by this Subsection, in addition to all
applicable City, State, and Federal health and safety codes such as, but not
limited to, the California Building Code, California Fire Code, California
Health and Safety Code, as well as any applicable zoning standards for the
development and use of the property on which the emergency shelter is located
(see Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development Standards)).
      1.   Maximum Number of Beds. The maximum number of beds allowed in an
emergency shelter shall not exceed thirty-five (35) except:
         a.   In response to a disaster; or
         b.   As authorized by a Site Plan Review approved by the Community
Development Director, subject to appeal to Planning Commission.
      2.   Required Parking. Parking for emergency shelters shall comply with
the parking standards established in
Chapter 10.38  (Parking and Loading).
      3.   Waiting and Intake Areas.  An enclosed or screened waiting area,
such as provided in a courtyard building configuration, shall be provided
between the intake area and the public right-of-way.
      4.   Location Requirements. No emergency shelter shall be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') from a public elementary school, public middle
school, public high school, public library, or public park. The distance
between an emergency shelter shall be measured in compliance with Subsection
10.50.010  D. (Measurement of Distance).
      5.   On-Site Management. Emergency shelters shall comply with the
following on-site management standards:
         a.   On-Site Personnel. The emergency shelter shall provide at least
one on-site supervisor at all times during hours of operation when clients are
present.
         b.   Designated Personnel Area. A designated area for on-site
personnel shall be located near the primary shelter entrance(s) for the purpose
of controlling and monitoring admittance into the facility.
         c.   Emergency Contact Information. Emergency contact information
shall be posted on the exterior of the facility adjacent to the primary
entrance(s), as well as on the interior of the facility in a location that is
accessible to all clients.
      6.   Shower and Restroom Facilities. Toilets, sinks, and showers shall be
provided on-site. The emergency shelter operator shall ensure all restroom and
shower facilities comply with the applicable provisions of the California
Building Code.
      7.   Personal Storage. A private storage area or closet shall be provided
with each on-site bed. The emergency shelter operator shall conduct routine
inspections of each on-site client's personal space to verify compliance with
this Subsection.
      8.   Outdoor Storage. Emergency shelters shall screen all outdoor storage
areas from all public rights-of-way and on-site and adjacent parking
facilities. The emergency shelter operator shall ensure that all outside
storage areas be maintained at all times.
      9.   Hours of Operation. Emergency shelters shall establish and maintain
set hours of operation for client intake and discharge. These hours shall be
clearly displayed at the primary entrance(s) to the shelter.
      10.   Discharging of Clients. In the event an emergency shelter client is
socially disruptive, a threat to the safety of others, or in violation of the
emergency shelter facility rules, the emergency shelter operator shall retain
the right to discharge that client immediately. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.070 SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY FACILITY (SRO):
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish development and
operational standards for single room occupancy facilities.
   B.   Development and Operational Standards. Single room occupancy (SRO)
facilities shall comply with the same restrictions and development standards
that apply to other residential dwellings of the same type in the same zone
district, except as otherwise established in this Section.
      1.   Where Allowed. SRO facilities shall be allowed in compliance with
Article 2 (Zones, Allowed Uses, and Development Standards).
      2.   Density. An SRO facility shall conform to the density standards
established by the General Plan.
      3.   Length of Stay. Tenancy of each SRO unit shall not be for less than
thirty (30) days.
      4.   Size. Excluding any bathroom area and closet(s), each SRO unit shall
have a minimum size of one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
      5.   Living Areas. The SRO facility shall provide living space, shower
and toilet facilities, laundry facilities including washers and dryers, kitchen
facilities, and secure storage areas for its intended residents. Facilities
shall be provided so that all members of a family may be housed together,
regardless of age and gender.
      6.   Parking. Parking shall be provided in compliance with
Chapter 10.38  (Parking Regulations).
   C.   Conversion of Existing Structures. An existing structure may be
converted to an SRO facility, consistent with the provisions of this Section.
Any such conversion must bring the entire structure up to current building code
standards, including accessibility and adaptability standards, unless otherwise
exempted by the Building Official.
   D.   Relocation of Tenants. If any SRO unit is found to be unsafe to occupy
due to danger to the health and safety of the residents, the costs, and
expenses of relocation of any tenant from that unit shall be the responsibility
of the owner in compliance with the provisions of the California Health and
Safety Code. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.080: SUPPORTIVE AND TRANSITIONAL HOUSING:
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose and intent of this Section is as
follows:
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish development and
operational standards for supportive and transitional housing units and
facilities in compliance with the Housing Element and California Government
Code.
      2.   Intent. The standards established in this Section are intended to
comply with the California Government Code and demonstrate the City's
commitment to assisting displaced persons find stable housing.
   B.   Applicability. The standards established in this Section shall apply to
all supportive and transitional housing facilities established where
specifically allowed in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development
Standards).
   C.   Permit Requirements. In addition to the permit requirements for
supportive and transitional housing facilities established in Article 2 (Zones,
Allowable Uses, and Development Standards), supportive and transitional housing
facilities shall be considered a residential use of property and shall be
subject only to those standards which apply to other residential dwellings in
the same zoning district.
   D.   Development and Operational Standards for Supportive and Transitional
Housing Facilities. Supportive and transitional housing facilities shall comply
with the following development and operational standards:
      1.   Length of Stay. The length of time a client shall reside at a
supportive or transitional housing facility shall comply with the following:
         a.   Supportive Housing. No limit on length of stay.
         b.   Transitional Housing. A minimum stay of six (6) months and a
maximum stay of twenty-four (24) months per client.
      2.   Living Areas. The facility hall have adequate living space, shower
and toilet facilities, laundry facilities including washers and dryers, and
secure storage areas for some residents. Facilities shall be provided on site
so that all members of a family may be housed together, regardless of age and
gender.
      3.   Support Services. Supportive and transitional housing facilities
shall provide supportive services. Supportive services include, but are not
limited to, a combination of subsidized, permanent housing, intensive case
management, medical and mental health care, drug and alcohol treatment,
employment services, and benefits advocacy. The following is required when
providing basic support services:
         a.   If a facility offers drug or alcohol abuse counseling appropriate
State and/or Federal licensing shall be required.
         b.   The facility shall identify a transportation system which
provides clients access to social services, housing, and employment
opportunities.
         c.   The facility shall provide mechanisms for residents to contact
social services.
         d.   The facility shall provide on-site meal preparations or food
provisions and disbursement.
         e.   The facility shall provide childcare services and ensure school-
age children are enrolled in school during their stay at the facility.
      4.   Parking. Parking for supportive and transitional housing facilities
shall comply with the parking standards established in
Chapter 10.38  (Parking Regulations).
      5.   In compliance with the California Health and Safety Code, any
supportive or transitional housing facility found to be unsafe to occupy due to
danger to the health and safety of the clients, the costs and expenses of
relocation of any client from the community shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the facility. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.090: MIXED USE:
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The intent of this Section is to encourage more
dense and orderly development of urban uses which include gathering places
where residents may interact, work, and obtain goods and services in the same
general location. A mixed use project shall emphasize pedestrian activities and
linkages, priority transit routes and facilities to serve the development, and
reduce the number of vehicle miles traveled (VMT) by promoting alternative
modes of transportation, including pedestrian pathways, bicycling pathways, and
public transportation as major facets in the design of each project. The
Community Development Director shall use their discretion to modify the project
design, including, but not limited to: requiring that all or a portion of the
ground (street) level floor space be dedicated to residential uses,
accessibility from adjacent public and/or private sidewalks, requiring parking
areas and open space orientation that encourages accessibility to pedestrians
and separates pedestrians from vehicles, requiring dedicated footpaths, and
requiring any other modification to project design that encourages pedestrian
use, including its interaction with the surrounding planned and existing
development, street patterns, neighborhoods, and the City.
   B.   Applicable Zone Districts Where a Mixed Use Project is Allowed. Mixed
use projects shall be allowed in compliance with Article 2 (Zones, Allowable
Uses, and Development Standards).
   C.   Mandatory Mix of Land Uses.  Each application governed by this Section
shall have a residential component integrated with a use or uses allowed as
described below.
      1.   Office and Commercial Zone Districts. All allowable uses listed in
the underlying district whether "by right" or "conditional" use may be
integrated with a residential use into the proposed project. If the underlying
and residential uses are both allowed "by right", a Site Plan Review
application will be required. If the underlying use is a "conditional" use and
the integration of a residential use is proposed, then, a Conditional Use
Permit application will be required in compliance with
Chapter 10.100  (Conditional Use Permit).
      2.   Industrial Zone Districts. Only the allowable "by right" uses listed
in the underlying district and all uses whether "by right" or "conditional" use
in the CC and CS zone districts, may be integrated with a residential use, in
compliance with the following findings:
         a.   The project site shall be a minimum of one (1) acres.
         b.   In the ML zone district the integration of a residential use
shall be developed in compliance with the High Density Residential.
         c.   The subject property shall not share a common property line on
two (2) or more sides with a designated MH zone district.
         d.   The project shall be architecturally unified throughout the
entire site and compatible with surrounding development.
         e.   A project may be phased over time; however, each phase shall
contain an integration of a minimum of two (2) of the mix of uses.
         f.   Shall be processed in accordance with
Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use Permit). The Planning Commission shall be
responsible for acting on proposed project application and shall either
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the project. The decision of the
Commission shall be appealable to the City Council in accordance with
Conditional Use Permit processing requirements.
   D.   Development Standards. Mixed use projects shall comply with the
following development standards:
      1.   The development standards of the underlying zone district shall
generally guide the development of the subject property.
      2.   The mix of residential use with allowed office/commercial/industrial
uses shall occur both in the horizontal and vertical axes except that the
Community Development Director may waive the requirement for a vertical mix of
use, if the design of the project, or the inclusion of a residential component
to an existing development illustrates performance standards that meet the
intent of the Section by providing an integrated network of pedestrian pathways
connecting the places of residences with places of work, commerce, and open
space areas.
      3.   If modifications to the development standards are proposed, the
applicant is required to provide supporting evidence for the modification of
the general standards, which shall be submitted with the project application.
      4.   For a project to qualify as mixed-use, at least one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet of the buildable project site must have a
qualifying commercial component. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.100: TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION AND/OR SALES OFFICE:
   A.   Length of Time. Temporary construction and/or subdivision sales offices
may be located within or adjacent to active construction sites for a period not
to exceed twenty-four (24)-months from the date of the last Building Permit
issued on the construction site.
   B.   Removal of Offices. Offices shall be removed at the expense of the
owner, unless, prior to the expiration of two (2) years, a renewal of time is
granted by the Community Development Director, subject to the appeal to the
Planning Commission. A temporary construction and/or sales office shall not be
permitted until an application for a Zone Clearance shall be made to and
approved by the Community Development Director. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.110: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Where Allowed. Mobile homes and mobile home parks shall be allowed in
compliance with the Mobile Home Parks Act and Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses,
and Development Standards).
   B.   Processing and Review of Mobile Home Parks. Notwithstanding the
standards and procedures established in California Code of Regulations, Title
25 - Mobile Home Park Regulations, for the purposes of this Title, mobile home
parks are considered to require the same consideration in their location as
applied to similar dwellings in the same zone district in compliance with the
General Plan.
   C.   Development Standards. Notwithstanding the standards and procedures
established in California Code of Regulations, Title 25 - Mobile Home Park
Regulations, mobile home shall comply with the following development standards.
      1.   Allowed Density. The maximum density shall comply with the density
standard established in the General Plan.
      2.   Clearances, Setbacks, and Yard Spaces. Mobile home parks (not the
individual spaces) shall comply with the following development standards:
         a.   Front yard - twenty feet (20').
         b.   Interior side yard- ten feet (10').
         c.   Street side yard- ten feet (10').
         d.   Interior rear yard- ten feet (10').
         e.   Street rear yard- twenty feet (20').
      3.   Parking. All parking areas and spaces shall be designed and
constructed in compliance with
Chapter 10.38  (Parking and Loading).
      4.   Signs. Signs for mobile home parks shall comply with the standards
established in
Chapter 10.40  (Sign Regulations).
      5.   Landscaping and Screening. In addition to the landscaping standards
established in
Chapter 10.36  (Landscaping), mobile home parks shall provide permanently
maintained landscaped areas and site screening as follows:
         a.   A landscaped border along the entire street frontage yard areas
and along the rear yard if such yard is adjacent to a public right-of-way.
         b.   A screen wall or fencing, seven feet (7') in height, along the
perimeter of the mobile home park. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.120: MOBILE AND FIXED VENDING ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to promote the health, safety,
comfort, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare for the citizenry of
Reedley by requiring that new fixed vending establishments provide food service
to residents and customers with a high level of cleanliness, quality, and
safety.
   B.   General Standards. Mobile vendors and fixed vending establishments
shall comply with the following general standards:
      1.   Where Allowed. A fixed vending establishment, as defined in Article
8 (Definitions), shall consist of not less than one mobile vendor at any given
time on private property. The subject property must be located within an
approved zoning district as established in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses,
and Development Standards).
      2.   Hours of Operation. Hours of operation shall be limited from seven
o’clock (7:00) a.m. to ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. when the fixed vending
establishment is within five hundred feet (500') of a residential structure.
      3.   Permission to Operate. Vendors shall only transact business with
written permission from the property owner. A copy of the written permission to
operate in a specific location signed by the private property owner shall be
kept within the vending unit at all times.
      4.   Compliance with Health and Safety Standards. A fixed vending
establishment and vendors must comply with California Health and Safety Code
and the County of Fresno Department of Public Health requirements.
      5.   Alcohol Sales Prohibited. No alcoholic beverages may be served or
consumed within the establishment at any time, unless they have an active
Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) license and/or have received a Conditional Use
Permit.
      6.   Maintenance. All vending units shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      7.   Vending Unit Drivers. Drivers of vending units must have a current
California driver's license, current auto insurance (including liability), and
current vehicle registration.
      8.   California Building Code Compliance. All fixed vending establishment
facilities shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Reedley
Municipal Code, American Disabilities Act (ADA), and California Building Code.
      9.   Mobile Vendor Location. Mobile vendors shall not interfere or impair
the safe and convenient passage of pedestrians, obstruct any pedestrian
walkway, including a handicapped loading zone, or reduce its clear width, or
pose a hazard to public safety. Mobile vendors shall not interfere with the
circulation or parking of vehicles in the required parking area of any existing
site or be located directly in front of an approach (property entryway).
      10.   Drive-Through Prohibited. No vending unit shall have a drive-
through.
      11.   Establishments Subject to Inspection. The vending unit shall be
subject to inspection by the County of Fresno Environmental Health Department,
and the City of Reedley Community Development Department, Police and Fire
Departments, at any time.
      12.   Cessation of Operations. If, at any time, a vendor's license/permit
is revoked or suspended by the County of Fresno, the vendor shall immediately
cease all operations at the prescribed location until the permit is reinstated.
      13.   Revocation. The Site Plan Review authorizing the establishment may
be revoked by the Community Development Director or suspended upon failure of a
vendor to maintain the appropriate permits issued by the Fresno County
Department of Public Health or failure to adhere to requirements of the Reedley
City Code. Revocation proceedings shall be initiated and processed in
compliance with Section
10.96.130  (Violation and Revocation).
      14.   Business License Required. Each vendor must obtain and keep current
a City of Reedley Business License.
   C.   Site and Development Standards. Fixed vending establishments shall
comply with the following site and development standards:
      1.   The minimum parcel size shall measure six thousand (6,000) square
feet.
      2.   For each vendor there shall be a designated pad measuring a minimum
of ten feet (10') by twenty-two feet (22'). A location pad for each vendor must
be identified on the site plan.
      3.   Each vending unit must be located ten feet (10') from any property
line adjacent to a street, five feet (5') from any interior property line, and
five feet (5') from any rear property line.
      4.   The applicant must demonstrate that there is sufficient access,
parking, and maneuvering space available at the site on which the vending unit
will operate.
      5.   A five-foot (5') clear space shall be maintained around all sides of
each vending unit.
      6.   The applicant is required to provide one lavatory for every two (2)
proposed vending unit spaces provided. The applicant will also be required to
ensure regular service of each lavatory.
      7.   Mobile vendors shall provide a sufficient number of covered trash
receptacles to hold materials discarded by its customers and the vendor shall
empty the receptacles as necessary.
      8.   Any power required for the vending unit shall be self-contained and
shall not draw its power from off-site or public right-of-way. No power cable
or equipment shall be extended at grade or overhead across any public street,
alley, or sidewalk.
   D.   Advertising and Signs. In addition to
Chapter 10.40  (Sign Regulations), mobile and fixed vending establishments
shall comply with the following sign and advertising standards:
      1.   Off-site signs are prohibited.
      2.   The distribution of handbills and/or advertisements on- or off-site
is allowed.
      3.   Off-site advertising shall not be displayed in or upon any vending
unit (fair, carnival, circus, festival, special event, or civic event).
   E.   Sound Amplification. Mobile and fixed vending establishments shall
comply with the following sound amplification standards:
      1.   Any music for the outdoor dining facility shall be from a single
source and comply with the noise level standards established in the General
Plan's Noise Element. Instances of live, amplified and/or music (i.e., disc
jockey, singer, band) is allowed only on Fridays and Saturdays, and will
require a Special Event Permit to be acquired prior to the activity taking
place in compliance with Title 3, Chapter 5 (Special Sales and Events) of the
Reedley City Code.
      2.   No mobile food vehicle vendor shall use or maintain any outside
sound amplifying equipment, lights, or noisemakers, such as bells, horns, or
whistles.
      3.   Vending units shall not use strobe lights or other similar devices
aimed at directing attention to the mobile vending business.
   F.   Design Standards. Mobile and fixed vending establishments shall comply
with the following design standards:
      1.   Tables and chairs shall be removable unless otherwise approved by
the Community Development Director.
      2.   Space heaters and/or heat lanterns may be provided so long as the
use and operation of any such heater complies with all applicable building and
fire codes and does not present a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public.
      3.   Umbrellas shall be removable and spaced to provide for pedestrian
access. The umbrella must be made from approved fire retardant material.
      4.   A "No Smoking" sign shall be posted next to the order window or
area. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.130: PORTABLE SELF-STORAGE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
placement and operation of portable storage containers.
   B.   Intent. The standards established in this section are intended to
protect the residential character of the neighborhood.
   C.   Applicability. Portable storage units shall comply with the standards
established for each zone district as specified in Subsection D, below.
   D.   Residential Zone Districts Standards. It is unlawful for any person to
place or allow the placement of a portable storage unit(s) on property with a
residential zone district classification unless the placement complies with
this section.
      1.   Portable storage unit(s) shall be allowed to be placed in the
following locations:
         a.   On the driveway or a parking area that is not located within the
public right-of-way.
         b.   On the side or rear yard if approved vehicular access exists at
the side or rear of the site.
      2.   No more than two (2) portable storage units shall be placed on the
property at any time.
      3.   The portable storage unit(s) shall be located at such property for a
maximum of thirty (30) consecutive days, including the days of delivery and
removal. The limited purpose is the portable storage of furniture, clothing, or
other household belongings, coming from or to a structure on the property.
      4.   The ancillary placement of a portable storage unit(s) for a
construction/rehabilitation project that requires a Building Permit shall be
noted on the Building Permit. The portable storage unit(s) shall be allowed to
remain as long as the Building Permit is active and shall be removed within ten
(10) calendar days from the issuance of the Building Permit expiring or being
finaled.
      5.   The property owner and owner/supplier of the portable storage unit
shall each be independently responsible for ensuring that the portable storage
unit(s) is maintained in good condition, free from evidence of deterioration,
weathering, discoloration, graffiti, rust, ripping, tearing, or other holes or
breaks, at all times.
      6.   Portable storage unit(s) shall be used for storage purposes only and
shall not be occupied by persons or animals at any time.
      7.   Portable storage unit(s) shall not be used to store solid waste,
construction debris, demolition debris or any illegal or hazardous material.
Upon reasonable notice to the property owner, the City may inspect the contents
of any portable storage unit(s) at any time to ensure that it is not being used
to store said materials.
      8.   No electrical connections shall be allowed within or around the
portable storage unit(s).
      9.   Placement of a portable storage unit in the City's right of way or
upon any public street, at any time, is prohibited. The City Engineer may waive
this prohibition for a period not to exceed five (5) consecutive days.
   E.   Industrial Zone District Standards. Portable storage unit(s) are
allowed in the industrial zone districts.
      1.   Placement of a portable storage unit(s) for permanent or semi-
permanent use in an industrial zone district shall require a Building Permit.
Applicable work shall be done in conformance with the California Building Code.
      2.   Portable storage unit(s) are prohibited on industrially zoned
property on which the primary use is nonconforming residential use unless
placed in accordance with Paragraph E.3 or E.4 of this Section.
      3.   No more than three (3) portable storage units per fifty thousand
(50,000) square feet of gross leasable area shall be placed on the property at
any time.
      4.   The property owner and owner/supplier of the portable storage unit
shall each be independently responsible for ensuring that the portable storage
unit(s) is maintained in good condition, free from evidence of deterioration,
weathering, discoloration, graffiti, rust, ripping, tearing, or other holes or
breaks, at all times.
      5.   Portable storage unit(s) shall be used for storage purposes only and
shall not be occupied by persons or animals at any time.
      6.   Portable storage unit(s) shall not be used to store solid waste,
construction debris, demolition debris or any illegal or hazardous material.
Upon reasonable notice to the property owner, the City may inspect the contents
of any portable storage unit(s) at any time to ensure that it is not being used
to store said materials.
      7.   No electrical connections shall be allowed within or around the
portable storage unit(s).
      8.   Placement of a portable storage unit in the City's right of way or
upon any public street adjacent to industrially zoned property is prohibited.
   F.   Commercial Zone District Standards. Portable storage unit(s) are
allowed in the commercial zone districts, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Placement of a portable storage unit(s) for permanent or semi-
permanent use in a commercial zone district shall require a building permit.
Applicable work shall be done in conformance with the California Building Code.
      2.   Portable storage unit(s) are prohibited on commercially zoned
property on which the primary use is a nonconforming residential use placed in
accordance with Paragraph F.3 or F.4 of this Section.
      3.   Any storage units shall be screened with sight obscuring fencing or
landscaping.
      4.   No more than two (2) portable storage units shall be placed on the
property at any time.
      5.   The property owner and owner/supplier of the portable storage unit
shall each be independently responsible for ensuring that the portable storage
unit(s) is maintained in good condition, free from evidence of deterioration,
weathering, discoloration, graffiti, rust, ripping, tearing, or other holes or
breaks, at all times.
      6.   Portable storage unit(s) shall be used for storage purposes only and
shall not be occupied by persons or animals at any time.
      7.   Portable storage unit(s) shall not be used to store solid waste,
construction debris, demolition debris or any illegal or hazardous material.
Upon reasonable notice to the property owner, the City may inspect the contents
of any portable storage unit(s) at any time to ensure that it is not being used
to store said materials.
      8.   No electrical connections shall be allowed within or around the
portable storage unit(s).
      9.   Placement of a portable storage unit in the City's right-of-way or
upon any public street adjacent to commercially zoned property is prohibited.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.140: RECYCLING FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The intent of the standards established in this
Section are to exercise reasonable control over the installation and location
of recycling facilities such that the aesthetic and safety values of
residential, commercial, and industrial areas are maintained.
   B.   Permits Required. No person shall allow the placement, construction, or
operation of any recycling facility without first obtaining all necessary
permits from the Planning Division in compliance with Article 2 (Zones,
Allowable Uses, and Development Standards).
   C.   Permits For Multiple Sites. A single Administrative Permit may be
approved to allow more than one reverse vending machine(s) or small collection
facility located on different sites under the following conditions:
      1.   The operator of each of the proposed facilities is the same;
      2.   The proposed facilities are determined by the Community Development
Director to be similar in nature, size, and intensity of activity; and
      3.   All the applicable criteria and standards established in Subsection
E (Processing Facilities) of this Section are met for each such proposed
facility.
   D.   Reverse Vending Machine(s). Reverse Vending Machines, as defined in
Article 8 (Definitions), shall meet all applicable criteria and standards
listed, provided that the Community Development Director may modify such
standards as an exercise of discretion upon a finding that such modifications
are reasonably necessary to implement the general intent and purpose of this
Section. The standards for reverse vending machines are as follows:
      1.   A reverse vending machine shall be established in conjunction with
an existing or allowed commercial use or community service facility or in
conjunction with an approved conditional use which is in compliance with all
zoning, building, and fire codes of the City;
      2.   A reverse vending machine shall be located in an area convenient for
customer access and shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation;
      3.   A reverse vending machine shall not occupy parking spaces required
by the primary use;
      4.   A reverse vending machine shall occupy no more than fifty (50)
square feet of floor space per installation, including any protective
enclosure, and shall be no more than eight feet (8') in height;
      5.   A reverse vending machine shall be constructed and maintained with
durable waterproof and rustproof material;
      6.   A reverse vending machine shall be clearly marked to identify the
type of material to be deposited, operating instructions and the identity and
phone number of the operator or responsible person to call if the machine is
inoperative;
      7.   In addition to the standards established in
Chapter 10.40 (Sign Regulations), a reverse vending machine shall have a sign
area of a maximum of four (4) square feet per machine, exclusive of operating
instructions;
      8.   A reverse vending machine shall be maintained in a clean, litter
free condition on a daily basis;
      9.   Operating hours shall be at least the operating hours of the primary
use of the parcel;
      10.   A reverse vending machine shall be illuminated to ensure
comfortable and safe operation if operating hours are between dusk and dawn;
and
      11.   More than one (1) reverse vending machine shall not be allowed.
   E.   Small Collection Facilities. Small Collection Facilities, as defined in
Article 8 (Definitions), shall meet all applicable criteria and standards
listed, provided that the Community Development Director may modify such
standards as an exercise of discretion upon a finding that such modifications
are reasonably necessary to implement the general intent and purpose of this
Section. The standards for small collection facilities are as follows:
      1.   Small collection facilities shall only be established in conjunction
with an existing or allowed commercial use or community service facility or in
conjunction with an approved conditional use which is in compliance with all
zoning, building, and fire codes of the City;
      2.   Small collection facilities shall be no larger than six hundred
(600) square feet and shall not occupy any required parking established for the
host use other than approved by the Community Development Director;
      3.   Small collection facilities shall be set back at least ten feet
(10') from any street line or as necessary in order not to obstruct pedestrian
or vehicular circulation;
      4.   Small collection facilities shall accept only glass, metals, plastic
containers, papers, and reusable items. Used motor oil may be accepted with
permission of the local public health official;
      5.   Small collection facilities shall use no power driven processing
equipment except for reverse vending machines;
      6.   Small collection facilities shall use containers that are
constructed and maintained with durable waterproof and rustproof material,
covered when site is not attended, secured from unauthorized entry or removal
of material, and shall be of capacity sufficient to accommodate materials
collected and collection schedule;
      7.   Small collection facilities shall be maintained free of litter and
other undesirable materials, and mobile facilities, at which truck or
containers are removed at the end of each collection day, shall be swept at the
end of each collection day;
      8.   Small collection facilities shall store all recyclable material in
containers or in the mobile unit vehicle and shall not leave materials outside
of containers when attendant is not present;
      9.   Small collection facilities shall not exceed noise levels of sixty
(60) dBA as measured at the adjacent property line(s) of an abutting
residential zone or a property occupied for residential use, otherwise shall
not exceed seventy (70) dBA;
      10.   Attended facilities located within two hundred feet (200') of a
residential zone or a property occupied for residential use shall operate only
during the hours between nine o’clock (9:00) a.m. and seven o’clock (7:00)
p.m.;
      11.   Containers for the twenty-four (24)-hour donation of materials
shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any property zoned or occupied for
residential use unless there is a recognized service corridor and acoustical
shielding between containers and the residential use;
      12.   The facility shall be clearly marked to identify the name and
telephone number of the facility operator and the hours of operation and
display a notice stating that no material shall be left outside the recycling
enclosure or containers;
      13.   Signs shall comply with the standards established in
Chapter 10.40 (Sign Regulations);
      14.   The small collection facility shall not be located over existing
landscaping;
      15.   No additional parking spaces will be required for customers of a
small collection facility located at the established parking lot of a host use.
One (1) space may be provided for the attendant, as determined by the Community
Development Director;
      16.   Mobile recycling units shall have an area clearly marked to
prohibit other vehicular parking during hours when the mobile unit is scheduled
to be present.
      17.   Occupation of parking spaces by the facility and by the attendant
may not reduce available parking spaces below the minimum number required for
the primary host use unless all of the following conditions exist:
         a.   The facility is located in a convenience zone district or a
potential convenience zone as designated by the California Department of
Conservation; and
         b.   A parking study shows that existing parking capacity is not
already fully used during the time the recycling facility will be on the site.
      18.   The facility shall comply with all provisions of this Section or
shall be found in noncompliance with this Title and, therefore in violation,
and shall cause removal from the site following appropriate notice by the
Community Development Director. Such notice shall consist of a written
statement addressing the violations, and the processor shall be given thirty
(30) calendar days to comply. If at the end of thirty (30) calendar days the
conditions are not met, the facility shall be removed from the site the
following day, ending the thirty (30)-day time limit.
   F.   Large Collection Facilities. Large Collection Facilities, as defined in
Article 8 (Definitions), shall meet all applicable criteria and standards
listed, provided that the Community Development Director may modify such
standards as an exercise of discretion upon a finding that such modifications
are reasonably necessary to implement the general intent and purpose of this
Section. The standards for large collection facilities are as follows:
      1.   Facility shall not abut a property zoned for residential use or
abuts an existing residential use(s);
      2.   Facility shall meet all applicable noise standards as set out in
Subsection F.8 of this section.
      3.   Setbacks, screening, and landscape requirements shall be those
provided for the zone district in which the facility is located.
      4.   All exterior storage of material shall be in sturdy containers which
are covered, secured, and maintained in good condition. Storage containers for
flammable material shall be constructed of nonflammable material. Oil storage
must be in containers approved by the Fire Department and Fresno County Public
Health Official.
      5.   Site shall be maintained free of litter and any other undesirable
materials and will be cleaned of loose debris on a daily basis.
      6.   Space will be provided on site for six (6) vehicles or the
anticipated peak customer load, whichever is higher, to circulate and to
deposit recyclable materials; except where the Community Development Director
and City Engineer determines that allowing overflow traffic above six (6)
vehicles is compatible with surrounding business and public safety.
      7.   One parking space will be provided for each commercial vehicle
operated by the processing center. Parking requirements will otherwise be as
mandated by the zone in which the facility is located except that parking
requirements for employees may be reduced when it can be shown that parking
spaces are not necessary such as when employees are transported in a company
vehicle to a work facility.
      8.   Noise levels shall not exceed sixty (60) dBA as measured at the
adjacent property line(s) of an abutting residential zone or a property
occupied for residential use, or otherwise shall not exceed seventy (70) dBA.
      9.   If the facility is located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
property zoned or occupied for residential use, it shall not be in operation
between seven o’clock (7:00) p.m. and eight o’clock (8:00) a.m.
      10.   Containers provided for after-hours donation of recyclable
materials will be at least one hundred feet (100') from any property zoned or
occupied for residential use, shall be of sturdy, rustproof construction, shall
have sufficient capacity to accommodate materials collected and shall be secure
from unauthorized entry or removal of materials.
      11.   Donation areas will be kept free of litter and any other
undesirable material; facility shall display a notice stating that no material
shall be left outside the recycling center.
      12.   Facility will be clearly marked with the name and phone number of
the facility operator and the hours of operation; identification and
informational signs will meet the standards of the zone; and directional signs
may be installed with the approval of the Community Development Director, if
necessary, to facilitate traffic circulation or if the facility is not visible
from the public right-of-way.
      13.   Power driven processing ancillary to a large collection facility,
including aluminum foil, and can compacting, baling, plastic shredding, or
other light processing activities necessary for efficient temporary storage and
shipment of material, may be approved by the Community Development Director if
the facility meets the noise standards or any other conditions that may be
placed on the use, subject to appeal to the Planning Commission.
      14.   No dust, fumes, smoke, vibration, or odor above ambient level shall
be detectable on neighboring properties.
   G.   Processing Facilities. Processing Facilities, including Light
Processing Facilities and Heavy Processing Facilities, as defined in Article 8
(Definitions), shall meet all applicable criteria and standards listed,
provided that the Community Development Director may modify such standards as
an exercise of discretion upon a finding that such modifications are reasonably
necessary to implement the general intent and purpose of this Section. The
standards for processing facilities are as follows:
      1.   Processing facilities shall not abut a property zoned, occupied, and
or planned for residential use.
      2.   Processing facilities shall operate in a wholly enclosed building
except for incidental storage, or within an area enclosed on all sides by fence
or wall not less than eight feet (8') in height and landscaped on all street
frontages.
      3.   Processing facilities shall be located at least two hundred and
fifty feet (250') from property zoned, occupied, and or planned for residential
use.
      4.   Power driven processing shall be permitted, provided all noise level
requirements are met.
      5.   A light processing facility shall not shred, compact, or bale
ferrous metals other than food and beverage containers.
      6.   Processing facilities may accept used motor oil for recycling from
the generator in accordance with the Health and Safety Code.
      7.   Setbacks, screening, and landscaping requirements shall be those
provided for the zoning district in which the facility is located.
      8.   All exterior storage of material shall be in sturdy containers or
enclosures which are covered, secured, and maintained in good condition.
Storage containers for flammable material shall be constructed of nonflammable
material. Oil storage must be in containers approved by the Fire Department or
Fresno County Health Official. No storage, excluding truck trailers and
overseas containers, shall be visible above the height of the fencing.
      9.   The site shall be maintained free of litter and any other
undesirable materials, will be cleaned of loose debris on a daily basis and
will be secured from unauthorized entry and removal of materials when
attendants are not present.
      10.   Space shall be provided on site for the anticipated peak load of
customers to circulate, park and deposit recyclable materials. If the facility
is open to the public, space will be provided for a minimum of ten (10)
customers or the peak load, whichever is higher, except where the Community
Development Director and City Engineer determines that allowing overflow
traffic is compatible with surrounding businesses and public safety.
      11.   One parking space will be provided for each commercial vehicle
operated by the processing center. Parking requirements will otherwise be as
mandated by the zone in which the facility is located except that parking
requirements for employees may be reduced when it can be shown that parking
spaces are not necessary such as when employees are transported in a company
vehicle to a work facility.
      12.   Noise levels shall not exceed sixty (60) dBA as measured at the
property line of residentially zoned, planned and or occupied property, or
otherwise shall not exceed seventy (70) dBA.
      13.   If the facility is located within five hundred feet (500') of
property zoned or planned for residential use, it shall not be in operation
between seven o’clock (7:00) p.m. and eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. The facility
will be administered by on-site personnel during the hours the facility is
open.
      14.   Any containers provided for after hours donation of recyclable
materials will be at least fifty feet (50') from any property zoned, planned,
or occupied for residential use; shall be of sturdy, rustproof construction;
shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate materials collected; and shall be
secure from unauthorized entry or removal of materials.
      15.   Donation areas shall be kept free of litter and any other
undesirable material. The containers shall be clearly marked to identify the
type of material that may be deposited. The facility shall display a notice
stating that no material shall be left outside the recycling containers.
      16.   Sign requirements shall comply with
Chapter 10.40 (Sign Regulations).
      17.   No dust, fumes, smoke, vibration, or odor above ambient level shall
be detectable on neighboring properties. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.150: SHORT-TERM RENTALS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish development and
operational standards for short-term rentals to ensure protection of the health
and safety of residents and guests and to protect the environment.
   B.   Applicability. Any property owner or professional property management
company who leases, rents, or otherwise makes available for compensation a
short-term rental unit for a period of fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days
shall comply with all standards established in this Section.
   C.   Zone Clearance Required. A Zone Clearance shall be obtained and
approved in compliance with
Chapter 10.82  (Zone Clearance).
   D.   Definitions. The definitions of terms and phrases used in this Section
are defined in Article 8 (Definitions).
   E.   Operational Standards. Failure to comply with the standards in this
Section may result in enforcement measures as established in
Chapter 10.112  (Administration and Enforcement) of this Title.
      1.   Business License Required. All short-term rentals shall be required
to obtain and maintain a Business License from the Administrative Services
Department. All operators shall pay required and applicable fees, taxes, and or
assessments.
      2.   Posting of Standards. The owner of the short-term rental shall post
a sign at a conspicuous location within the unit advising occupants of all
rules and operational standards imposed upon occupants under this Section.
      3.   Required Signs. Each short-term rental property shall be equipped
with no more than a single informational sign not to exceed two (2) square feet
in area. Each sign shall be clearly visible from the street, include the City's
Code compliance hotline/reporting contact phone number, the maximum allowed
number of occupants, and the maximum number of vehicles permitted.
      4.   Habitable Space. Only the habitable interior portions of a dwelling
shall be used as a short-term rental. No tents, camper trailers, recreational
vehicles, or other exterior structures or spaces are permissible as short-term
rentals.
      5.   Local Contact Person. A local contact person shall be personally
available by telephone on a twenty-four (24)-hour basis and maintain the
ability to be physically present at the short-term rental within thirty (30)
minutes of contact by code enforcement, the Police Department, or the guest(s),
and has access and authority to assume management of the short-term rental in
order to respond to and remedy calls or complaints. Calls or complaints about
physical conditions or circumstances that constitute an immediate threat to the
public health and safety shall obligate the local contact person to immediately
contact the appropriate law enforcement, fire, or other authority.
      6.   Length of Stay. No short-term rental shall exceed thirty (30)
consecutive calendar days per stay.
      7.   Signs and Advertising. In addition to the standards established in
Chapter 10.40  (Sign Regulations), no on-site exterior signs shall be posted
advertising the availability of a short-term rental at the short-term rental
property.
      8.   Noise. It is unlawful for any owner, occupant, renter, lessee,
person present upon, or person having charge or possession of a short-term
rental to make or continue or cause to be made or continued any loud,
unnecessary or unusual noise which disturbs the peace and quiet of any
neighborhood or which causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person
of normal sensitivity residing in the area, or violates any provision of
Chapter 5, Section 1-18  (Noise Control) of the Reedley Municipal Code.
      9.   Parking. Parking for short term rental units shall comply with the
standards established in
Chapter 10.38  (Parking Regulations).
      10.   Outdoor Activities. Occupants shall not engage in outdoor
activities on a short-term rental property between the hours of ten o’clock
(10:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. that involve the use of swimming
pools, hot tubs, spas, tennis, play equipment, and other similar and related
improvements. The hours between ten o'clock (10:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:
00) a.m. are considered to be "quiet time," where all activities at a short-
term rental property shall be conducted inside of a short-term rental unit so
that no outdoor activity will disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood
adjacent to a short-term rental property or cause discomfort or annoyance to
any reasonable person of normal sensitivity residing in the area.
   F.   Findings and Decision.
      1.   Application. The Community Development Director shall review all
applications and shall record the decision in writing with the findings
established in this Section on which the decisions is based.
      2.   Findings. The Community Development Director shall base their
decision on the following findings:
         a.   The short-term rental as proposed is consistent with the General
Plan and the development and design standards established by this Title.
         b.   The short-term rental is consistent with the all other municipal
codes and applicable laws.
         c.   The short-term rental is consistent with the character of the
existing neighborhood.
         d.   The short-term rental will not adversely impact the intended
purpose of the zone district it is situated in.
         e.   The short-term rental will not adversely impact the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.160: RESTAURANT:
Restaurants, as defined in Article 8 (Definitions) and allowed in Article 2
(Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development Standards), shall comply with the
following standards:
   A.   Meal Service Required. A restaurant shall serve meals to guests at all
times the establishment is open for business. An establishment shall not be
considered a restaurant if it serves alcohol without meal service being
provided with the exception that alcohol sales to restaurant patrons may
continue for up to two (2) hours after meal service has ceased to allow guests
to comfortably complete their meals.
   B.   Real Offer or Holding Out to Sell Meals. The restaurant shall make an
offer or holding out of sales of meals to the public by maintaining and
displaying a printed menu and/or a menu board. A two-thirds (2/3) majority of
the items offered on the menu shall be available at any given time the
establishment is open. The mere offering of meals without actual sales shall
not be deemed sufficient.
   C.   Substantial Sales. A restaurant shall make actual and substantial sales
of meals to guests for compensation. Substantial sales shall mean that no less
than sixty percent (60%) of total revenue shall be generated from food service
and no more than forty percent (40%) of revenue from the sales of alcohol.
   D.   Qualifying Meals. Meals means the usual assortment of foods commonly
ordered at various times of the day for the cuisine served. The service of
snack foods and/or appetizers alone shall not be deemed compliant with this
requirement. Meals shall be prepared on the premises. The heating of food
prepared elsewhere shall not constitute a meal.
   E.   Maintenance. The premises on which the restaurant is located shall be
equipped for meal service and maintained. The premises must possess and
maintain appliances for the cooking of a variety of foods such as stoves,
ovens, broilers, or other devices, as well as pots, pans, or containers that
can be used for cooking. The premises shall possess the necessary utensils,
table service, and condiment dispensers with which to serve meals to the
public.
   F.   Health Department Compliance Required. A restaurant shall comply with
all local health department standards.
   G.   Bar and/or Lounge Areas. A restaurant may have a separate lounge or bar
area provided that the restaurant and bar/lounge area operate as a single
entity. The physical layout, entry location(s), spatial connection between the
areas, and operational characteristics, among other factors, shall be used to
determine compliance. Any bar/lounge area cannot remain open when the dining
area is closed. However, the dining area may be open while the bar/lounge area
is closed.
   H.   State Alcohol and Beverage Control (ABC) Compliance. To the extent that
ABC regulations conflict with the standards established in this Section, a
restaurant shall comply with all ABC regulations related to bona fide public
eating places, meals, and restaurants. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.170: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Public Works. Trash bins, trash cans or dumpsters shall be provided as
required through the Public Works Department. Trash bins, trash cans or
dumpsters shall be kept within a trash enclosure or screened from any public
right-of-way.
   B.   Maintenance. All trash container areas shall be maintained in a manner
which prevents the accumulation of trash, debris, rubbish, and litter outside
of receptacles approved by the Public Works Department. Trash bins shall also
be maintained free of graffiti. Trash enclosures in commercial areas shall be
maintained and operated in such a manner as to not impede traffic due to the
doors being allowed to swing open for an extended period of time. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.180: UTILITY TOWERS AND LINES:
   A.   Application. The standards established in this Section shall not be
construed as to limit or interfere with the construction, installation,
operation, and maintenance of any land use coming under the jurisdiction of the
public utilities commission, which uses are related to the public utility
purposes of water and gas pipes, mains and conduits, telegraph and telephone
lines, pole mounted repeaters, telephone booths, sewers, and sewer mains,
electric light and power distribution and transmission lines, except as
provided for in this Section.
   B.   Procedure. The routes of proposed gas or electric transmission lines
shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and recommendations. The
City Engineer shall confine its review to the route, placement and height of
such towers or lines.
      1.   Power transmission lines shall be those lines which are intended to
transmit gas or electric energy from:
         a.   The source of such energy to a receiving substation.
         b.   A receiving substation to a distribution substation.
      2.   Prior to the acquisition of rights-of-way, the following plans and
information shall be submitted to the Engineering Division for its review and
recommendations:
         a.   The location of the proposed route.
         b.   Type of towers and transmission lines.
         c.   Approximate height of towers or size of lines.
         d.   Widths of rights-of-way.
         e.   Other pertinent data.
      3.   The City Engineer shall recommend such modifications as are deemed
necessary to protect health, safety, and welfare.
      4.   The City Engineer shall complete its review and make its findings
within thirty (30) days after the filing of said plans and data.
   C.   Appeals. The recommendations of the City Engineer may be appealed to
the City Council within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized
holidays) of the completion of the review and findings. The appeal shall be
placed on the agenda of the City Council's within forty-five (45) calendar days
after appeal has been filed with the City Clerk. The City Council shall review
the findings and recommendations and shall act to uphold, modify, or disapprove
the recommendations of the City Engineer. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.50.190: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND CELL TOWERS:
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The intent of these regulations is to exercise
reasonable control over the installation of any satellite antenna to ensure
safety the values of residential, commercial, and industrial areas are
maintained.
   B.   Applicability. This Section applies to every dish antenna installed or
modified on or after the effective date hereof and to every dish antenna
existing as of the effective date hereof, which was installed or modified
without plans and a Building Permit approved by the City. No satellite
television antenna shall be erected, constructed, maintained, or operated
except in compliance with the standards established in this Section.
   C.   Plans and Permit. No dish antenna shall be installed or modified except
in compliance with the application, conditions of approval, and a Building
Permit approved by the City. In addition to complying with structural and
electrical requirements of this Section, the plans filed with the Building
Permit shall include a site plan showing all dish antenna and site specific
information and details necessary for the City to determine compliance with all
applicable standards of this Section. Additional supplemental information may
be required if a Variance or Conditional Use Permit is needed.
   D.   Allowed Locations; Exception Procedures and Limitations. If a usable
satellite signal cannot be obtained by locating the antenna in the back half of
any parcel in the single-unit residential zone district, the antenna may be
located in the side or front area of the property, provided that a Director's
Determination is made prior to such installation. In requesting a variance, the
applicant must show that a usable satellite signal is not obtainable from the
rear yard location on the property and that the construction and erection
otherwise comply with City building and electrical regulations.
   E.   Certain parcels of land in the City may not be able to accommodate
satellite dish antennas because of existing site conditions and adverse effects
on the surrounding neighborhoods. In such instances the Community Development
Director may withhold approval to construct, install and/or maintain a
satellite dish antenna, unless conditions and/or equipment would change to
reverse the ruling of the Director.
   F.   General Standards Applicable to All Dish Antennas. Every dish antenna
shall be installed, modified, and maintained in compliance with this Section
and the following standards:
      1.   All satellite dish antennas located in residential districts shall
be located to minimize the visual impact on surrounding properties and from
public rights-of-way and adjacent properties by use of screens, fences, and/or
landscaping without impeding the efficiency of the dish.
      2.   No satellite dish antenna shall occupy or interfere with access to
any required parking space or driveway.
      3.   All satellite dish antennas shall be subject to front and side yard
setback regulations, except in residential districts.
      4.   Satellite dish antennas shall not emit light or employ reflective
materials.
      5.   Not more than one (1) satellite television antenna per parcel shall
be allowed in any zone district with exceptions allowed by Director's
Discretion.
      6.   Prior to installation of a satellite dish antenna, all appropriate
permits must be obtained from the City.
      7.   The installation of all satellite dish antennas shall be in
conformance with manufacturer's installation specifications and, in the absence
of such specifications, the design of footings, anchorage and fasteners shall
be completed by a California registered architect, civil or structural
engineer, to meet the current California Building Code.
      8.   Antennas shall meet all manufacturer specifications, be of
noncombustible and corrosive resistant material and be erected in a secure,
wind resistant manner.
      9.   The electrical system shall be designed and installed in accordance
with the current Electrical Code.
      10.   All electrical wiring associated with antennas shall be installed
underground or hidden from view.
      11.   A satellite dish antenna shall be maintained in a safe and
aesthetically acceptable condition for the duration of the time it exists on
the property.
      12.   Every metal antenna must be adequately grounded for protection
against a direct strike by lightning.
   G.   Satellite Antenna Requirements; Nonresidential.  In commercial,
industrial, open space, and other nonresidential zone districts:
      1.   Prior to installation of a satellite dish antenna, all appropriate
permits and approvals shall be obtained from the City.
      2.   Antennas may be ground mounted, roof mounted, or aboveground pole
mounted. Roof mounted and aboveground pole mounted antennas shall not exceed
one hundred fifty feet (150').
      3.   Roof mounted antennas shall be located on a flat portion of the roof
with parapets and/or an architecturally matching screening plan.
      4.   No advertising of any kind shall be allowed on satellite dish
antennas. A manufacturer's identification label and/or any government required
identification or safety labels may be affixed to the back side of the dish or
to the structural supports of the antenna.
      5.   No more than one satellite dish antenna shall be installed at any
commercial or industrial establishment whether or not sales of the antennas
takes place, except that the Community Development Director may grant
additional antennas if it is demonstrated that such additional antennas will
meet the provisions and intent of this Section.
   H.   Satellite Antenna Requirements; Residential Districts. Prior to
installation of a satellite dish antenna, all appropriate permits and approvals
shall be obtained from the City. In residential districts or for residential
uses in other zone districts.
      1.   All satellite dish antennas shall be located only in the back half
of any parcel as ground mounted units only.
      2.   All satellite dish antennas shall not extend beyond the property
lines of the parcel on which it is erected.
      3.   Only one satellite dish antenna shall be installed per parcel or
multi-unit dwelling.
      4.   Satellite dish antennas shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height
including any platform or structure upon which said antenna is mounted or
affixed. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.52
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU)
SECTION:
10.52.010: Purpose and Intent
10.52.020: Applicability
10.52.030: Application
10.52.040: General Plan Density Exemption
10.52.050: General Requirements For Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
10.52.060: Location
10.52.070: Number Of Units Allowed Per Parcel
10.52.080: Development Standards
10.52.090: Deed Restriction
10.52.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose. The provisions of this Chapter are intended to set standards,
in compliance with California Government Code Section 66310 et seq., for the
development of accessory dwelling units (ADU) to increase the supply of smaller
and affordable housing while ensuring such housing remains compatible with the
existing neighborhood.
   B.   Intent. The regulations in this Chapter are intended to:
      1.   Implement the provisions of the General Plan Housing Element;
      2.   Assure compliance with California Government Code and other relevant
housing legislation;
      3.   Encourage the development of ADUs;
      4.   Streamline and minimize governmental constraints on residential
development; and
      5.   Minimize potential adverse impacts on the public health, safety, and
general welfare that may be associated with ADUs. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.52.020: APPLICABILITY:
Except as otherwise provided by this Section or State law, ADUs shall be
ministerially permitted only where allowed in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses,
and Development Standards). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.52.030: APPLICATION:
   A.   Ministerial Approval. An application for an ADU that complies with all
applicable requirements of this Chapter and State law shall be approved
ministerially through the Building Permit process. A Building Permit
application for an ADU on a parcel with an existing single-unit dwelling shall
be acted upon within sixty (60) days of the Building Permit application being
complete.
   B.   Failure to Act. If the City has not acted upon the completed
application within sixty (60) days, the application shall be deemed approved.
   C.   Applicant's Right to Delay. The Building Permit applicant may request a
delay in the City's processing of the Building Permit, which shall result in
the tolling of the sixty (60)-day period, in compliance with Government Code
Section 66317. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.52.040: GENERAL PLAN DENSITY EXEMPTION:
As provided by Government Code Section 66319, ADUs are not considered new or
separate dwelling units and, therefore, are exempt from the density limitations
of the General Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.52.050: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADUS):
All ADUs shall comply with the following general requirements.
   A.   Accessory to Primary Residential Use. ADUs shall be accessory to an
existing or proposed primary dwelling.
   B.   Where Allowed. ADUs shall be located on a parcel zoned to allow single-
unit or multi-unit residential dwellings and that contains an existing or
proposed primary dwelling.
   C.   Separate Conveyance. ADUs shall not be sold or otherwise conveyed
separately from the primary dwelling, except as otherwise provided in
Government Code Section 66341.
   D.   Rental Terms. ADUs shall not be rented for a term of less than thirty
(30) consecutive days.
   E.   Owner Occupancy Not Required. The property owner is not required to
occupy the ADU or primary dwelling located on the parcel.
   F.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles, as defined in Article 8
(Definitions), shall not be used as ADUs. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.52.060: LOCATION:
An ADU shall be allowed in the following locations:
   A.   Within an existing or proposed single-unit dwelling, including attached
garages, storage areas, or similar attached areas;
   B.   Within an existing or proposed multi-unit dwelling structure in areas
that are not used as livable space, including, but not limited to, storage
rooms, boiler rooms, passageways, attics, basements, or garages;
   C.   An existing or proposed detached accessory structure;
   D.   Above a garage that is attached to or detached from the primary
dwelling.
   F.   When located within an existing accessory structure, the accessory
structure shall only be enlarged to provide ingress and egress. An expansion
needed to provide ingress and egress shall be limited to a maximum of one
hundred and fifty (150) square feet, shall provide exterior access, and shall
provide side and rear setbacks adequate for fire and safety. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-
10-2024)
10.52.070: NUMBER OF UNITS ALLOWED PER PARCEL:
An ADU shall comply with the following allowance standards.
   A.   One ADU and one JADU on a parcel with an existing or proposed single-
unit dwelling. See
Chapter 10.54 (Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU)).
   B.   No more than one (1) ADU on a parcel where there are multiple detached
single-unit dwellings.
   C.   No more than two (2) detached ADUs on a parcel with a proposed or
existing multi-unit dwelling. Two (2) or more attached dwellings on a single
lot shall be considered a multi-unit dwelling.
   D.   Within an existing multi-unit dwelling structure, multiple ADUs shall
be allowed in areas that are not used as livable space, including but not
limited to storage rooms, boiler rooms, passageways, attics, basements, or
garages. A structure with two (2) or more attached dwellings on a single lot
shall be considered a multi-unit dwelling structure. The number of ADUs allowed
is limited to a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the number of multi-
unit dwellings within the structure. In no case shall less than one (1) ADU be
allowed. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.52.080: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
An ADU shall comply with the with the following development standards:
   A.   Setbacks. ADUs shall comply with the following setback requirements:
      1.   Attached Unit. An attached ADU shall be subject to the same front
setback requirement applicable to the primary dwelling, unless it precludes
development of an ADU that is at least eight hundred (800) square feet, at
least sixteen feet (16') in height with four-foot side and rear yard setbacks
and complies with all other development standards of this Chapter or State law.
The interior side, street side, and rear setbacks shall be a minimum of four
feet (4'). No rear, street side, or interior side setback is required for an
accessory dwelling unit that is located fully within an existing single-unit
dwelling, provided a separate exterior access is provided for the ADU.
      2.   Conversion of Existing Living Space or Existing Accessory Structure.
An ADU or portion of an ADU located within the existing space of an existing
dwelling or within an existing detached accessory structure shall not require a
setback from the rear, street side, or interior side property lines.
      3.   Existing Garage. No setback shall be required for an existing garage
that is converted to an ADU, except as required for fire and safety. A setback
of four feet (4') from the interior side, street side, and rear property lines
is required for an ADU constructed above an existing garage.
      4.   Replacement of Existing Structures. For an ADU constructed in
generally the same location and to the same dimensions as an existing
structure, setbacks of four feet (4') from the interior side, street side, and
rear property lines shall be provided.
      5.   New Detached Unit. A new detached ADU shall comply with the front
setback of the underlying zoning district, unless it precludes development of
an ADU that is at least eight hundred (800) square feet, at least sixteen feet
(16') in height with four-foot (4') side and rear yard setbacks and complies
with all other development standards of this Chapter. A detached ADU shall be
located a minimum of four feet (4') from the interior side, street side, and
rear property lines.
   B.   Living Area Allowed Per Unit. Garages and carports shall be excluded
when calculating the living area of a primary dwelling. ADUs shall comply with
the following living area square footage standards:
      1.   The minimum size of an ADU is one hundred and fifty (150) square
feet of living area.
      2.   The maximum size of a detached ADU is one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet of living area.
      3.   The maximum size of an attached ADU is fifty percent (50%) of the
living area of the existing or proposed primary dwelling, or one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet, whichever is greater.
      4.   A detached, new construction ADU may be combined with one JADU that
complies with the requirements of Chapter 10.54 (Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit
(JADU)). When combined with a JADU, the maximum size of the ADU is limited to
eight hundred (800) square feet, regardless of the number of bedrooms.
      5.   Square footage is measured from the exterior walls at the building
envelope, excluding any garage area or unenclosed covered porch areas. For the
purposes of measurement, all attached and/or interior storage areas,
mezzanines, lofts, attics (except those less than seven feet in height accessed
by a crawlspace and/or other code compliant access), and similar uses shall be
counted in the total square footage.
   C.   Height. ADU height shall be measured in accordance with Section
10.30.030  (Height Measurements and Exceptions). ADUs are limited to a maximum
height of eighteen feet (18'), except as established below:
      1.   Detached Units Located Adjacent to Transit Services. If a detached
accessory dwelling is located within a half-mile of a major transit stop or
high-quality transit corridor, as defined in Article 8 (Definitions), the unit
is limited to a maximum height of eighteen feet (18'), and may be up to two
feet (2') taller, for a maximum of twenty feet (20'), if necessary to match the
roof pitch of the primary dwelling unit.
      2.   Detached Units on Multi-Unit Residential Dwelling Parcels. If a
detached accessory dwelling is located on a parcel with a multi-story, multi-
unit dwelling structure, the detached accessory dwelling unit is limited to a
maximum height of eighteen feet (18').
      3.   ADUs Above Detached Garages. An accessory dwelling unit located
above a detached garage is limited to a maximum height of twenty-five feet
(25').
      4.   Attached Units.  An accessory dwelling attached to the primary
dwelling is limited to the height allowed in the underlying zoning district.
   D.   Parking. One off-street parking space is required for an ADU in
addition to that required for the main dwelling, except as established below.
      1.   No off-street parking shall be required if any of the following
circumstances exist:
      2.   The ADU is located within one-half mile of public transit as defined
in Article 8 (Definitions).
      3.   The ADU is located on a property with a Historic Overlay zone.
      4.   The ADU is part of the existing primary residence or an existing
accessory structure.
      5.   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to the
occupant of the ADU.
      6.   Where there is a car share vehicle located within one block of the
ADU.
      7.   To qualify for an exception, the applicant must provide supporting
evidence, such as a map illustrating the location of the accessory dwelling
unit and its proximity to public transit or car share vehicle or on a lot with
an Historic Overlay zone, or proof of local parking permit requirements.
      8.   The required off-street parking space may be covered or uncovered
and shall be permitted in tandem and in setback areas, unless the Community
Development Director determines that such parking is not feasible due to
specific site topographical or fire and life safety conditions.
      9.   If a garage, carport, or covered parking is demolished in
conjunction with the construction of an ADU or converted to an accessory
dwelling unit, replacement parking is not required.
   E.   Access. An ADU shall have exterior access that is separate from the
exterior access for the primary dwelling. A passageway that provides access to
the ADU from a street is not required. For the purpose of this Section, a
passageway is defined as a pathway that is unobstructed clear to the sky and
extends from a street to one entrance of an ADU.
   F.   Fire Sprinklers. Fire sprinklers shall be required if required for the
primary residence.
   G.   Way Finding. Each ADU shall display a numerical address in compliance
with the current Residential Code as adopted and amended by the City.
   H.   Utilities. All utilities servicing the ADU shall be installed in a
manner consistent with the California Building Code. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.52.090: DEED RESTRICTION:
Before issuance of a Building Permit for an ADU, a deed restriction shall be
recorded against the title of the property in the County Recorder's office and
a copy filed with the Community Development Department. The deed restriction
shall run with the land and bind all future owners. The form of the deed
restriction shall be provided by the Department and shall provide that:
   A.   A prohibition on the sale of the ADU separate from the sale of the
single-unit dwelling residence, except as otherwise provided in Government Code
Section 66341.
   B.   A prohibition on short-term rentals and rental terms shorter than
thirty (30) consecutive days.
   C.   An acknowledgment that water pressure may change if the ADU is using or
is proposed to be using the same water connection as primary dwelling.
   D.   An acknowledgment that additional nonpermeable surfaces may affect the
water drainage pattern on the parcel.
   E.   An acknowledgment that the deed restriction runs with the land and
shall be enforced against future property owners.
   F.   The deed restriction shall be enforceable by the City. Failure of the
property owner to comply with the deed restriction may result in legal action
against the property owner, and the City is authorized to obtain any remedy
available to it at law or equity, including, but not limited to, obtaining an
injunction enjoining the use of the ADU in violation of the recorded
restrictions or abatement of the illegal unit. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.54
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (JADU)
SECTION:
10.54.010: Purpose
10.54.020: Applicability
10.54.030: Application
10.54.040: General Plan Density Exemption
10.54.050: General Requirements For Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs)
10.54.060: Location
10.54.070: Development Standards
10.54.080: Deed Restriction
10.54.010: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose. The provisions of this Section are intended to set standards,
in compliance with Government Code Section 66310 et seq., for the development
of junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs) to increase the supply of smaller
and affordable housing while ensuring that they remain compatible with the
existing neighborhood. It is not the intent of this ordinance to override
lawful use restrictions as set forth in Conditions, Covenants, and
Restrictions.
   B.   Intent. The regulations in this Chapter are intended to:
      1.   Implement the provisions of the General Plan Housing Element;
      2.   Assure compliance with California Government Code and other relevant
housing legislation;
      3.   Encourage the development of JADUs;
      4.   Streamline and minimize governmental constraints on residential
development; and
      5.   Minimize potential adverse impacts on the public health, safety, and
general welfare that may be associated with JADUs. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.54.020: APPLICABILITY:
Except as otherwise provided by this Section or State law, JADUs shall be
ministerially permitted only where allowed in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses,
and Development Standards). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.54.030: APPLICATION:
   A.   Ministerial Approval. An application for a JADU that complies with all
applicable requirements of this Chapter and State law shall be approved
ministerially through the Building Permit process. A Building Permit
application for a JADU on a parcel with an existing single-unit dwelling shall
be acted upon within sixty (60) days of the Building Permit application being
complete.
   B.   Failure to Act. If the City has not acted upon the completed
application within sixty (60) days, the application shall be deemed approved.
   C.   Applicant's Right to Delay. The Building Permit applicant may request a
delay in the City's processing of the Building Permit, which shall result in
the tolling of the sixty (60)-day period, in compliance with Government Code
Section 66335. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.54.040: GENERAL PLAN DENSITY EXEMPTION:
As provided by Government Code Section 66319), JADUs are not considered new or
separate dwelling units and, therefore, are exempt from the density limitations
of the General Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.54.050: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (JADUS):
All JADUs shall comply with the following general requirements.
   A.   Accessory to Primary Residential Use. JADUs shall be accessory to an
existing or proposed primary dwelling.
   B.   Where Allowed. JADUs shall be located on a parcel zoned to allow
single-unit residential dwellings.
   C.   Amount Per Parcel. Only one (1) JADU is allowed per parcel.
   D.   Separate Conveyance. JADUs shall not be sold or otherwise conveyed
separately from the primary dwelling, except as otherwise provided in
Government Code Section 66340.
   E.   Rental Terms. JADUs shall not be rented for a term of less than thirty
(30) consecutive days.
   F.   Owner Occupancy Required. The property owner is required to occupy the
JADU or the remaining portion of the single-unit dwelling or an ADU located on
the same parcel.
   G.   Deed Restriction. Shall file a deed restriction in compliance with
Section
10.54.080  (Deed Restriction) of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.54.060: LOCATION:
A JADU shall be allowed in the following locations:
   A.   Within a Single-Unit Dwelling. Within the walls of an existing or
proposed single-unit dwelling. Enclosed uses within the residence, such as
attached garages, shall be considered a part of the existing or proposed
single-unit residence.
   B.   Combined with a Detached, New Construction Accessory Dwelling Unit.
When combined with a JADU, the maximum size of the accessory dwelling unit is
limited to eight hundred (800) square feet, regardless of the number of
bedrooms. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.54.070: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A JADU shall comply with the with the following development standards:
   A.   Minimum Living Area. The minimum size of a JADU shall be one hundred
anf fifty (150) square feet of living area.
   B.   Maximum Living Area. A JADU shall not exceed five hundred (500) square
feet in living area.
   C.   Kitchen. The JADU shall contain an efficiency kitchen. The efficiency
kitchen shall be removed when the JADU use ceases.
   D.   Sanitation. A JADU may include a full bathroom, or the occupants of the
JADU may share the bathroom facilities within the remainder of the single-unit
dwelling. If the bathroom facility is shared, an interior entry into the main
living area of the single-unit dwelling shall be provided.
   E.   Entrance. The JADU shall include an exterior entrance separate from the
main entrance to the existing or proposed single-family dwelling. If a bathroom
facility is not shared with the single-unit dwelling, the junior accessory
dwelling may, but is not required to, include an interior entry into the main
living area, which may include a second interior doorway for sound attenuation.
   F.   Parking. Off-street parking shall not be required for a junior
accessory dwelling unit. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.54.080: DEED RESTRICTION:
Before issuance of a Building Permit for a junior accessory dwelling unit, a
deed restriction shall be recorded against the title of the property in the
County Recorder's office and a copy filed with the Community Development
Director. The deed restriction shall run with the land and bind all future
owners. The form of the deed restriction shall be provided by the Director and
shall provide that:
   A.   The JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary dwelling
associated with the JADU.
   B.   The JADU is restricted to the approved size and to other attributes
allowed by this Chapter.
   C.   Owner-occupancy in the primary dwelling unit or the newly created JADU
shall be required.
   D.   A prohibition on short-term rentals and rental terms shorter than
thirty (30) days.
   E.   An acknowledgment that water pressure may change if the JADU is using
or is proposed to be using the same water connection as primary dwelling.
   F.   An acknowledgment that additional nonpermeable surfaces may affect the
water drainage pattern on the parcel.
   G.   The deed restriction runs with the land and may be enforced against
future property owners.
   H.   The deed restriction may be removed if the owner eliminates the JADU,
as evidenced by, for example, removal of the kitchen facilities. To remove the
deed restriction, an owner may make a written request of the Community
Development Director, providing evidence that the JADU has in fact been
eliminated. Any Building Permits required in the removal shall be approved by
the Director's determination. The Director may then determine whether the
evidence supports the claim that the JADU has been eliminated. Appeal may be
taken from the Director's determination consistent with other provisions of
this Zoning Code. If the JADU is not entirely physically removed but is only
eliminated by virtue of having a necessary component of a JADU removed, the
remaining structure and improvements shall otherwise comply with applicable
provisions of this Zoning Code.
   I.   The deed restriction shall be enforceable by the City. Failure of the
property owner to comply with the deed restriction may result in legal action
against the property owner, and the City is authorized to obtain any remedy
available to it at law or equity, including, but not limited to, obtaining an
injunction enjoining the use of the JADU in violation of the recorded
restrictions or abatement of the illegal unit. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.56
 MULTI-UNIT DWELLING DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10.56.010: Purpose And Intent
10.56.020: Applicability
10.56.030: Approval Authority
10.56.040: Site Planning And Design Standards
10.56.050: Architectural Design Standards
10.56.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to provide architectural and
site design standards for multi-unit dwelling residential development projects
(referred to as "projects" or the "project").
   B.   Intent. It is the intent of these standards to provide applicants and
property owners a clear understanding of the City's expectations for
development, and further the goals, policies, and actions of the General Plan,
which encourage high quality design and streamlining of housing development.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.56.020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General. The standards contained in this Chapter are written as
requirements, rather than guidelines; therefore, all qualifying multi-unit
dwelling residential projects applying for streamlined approval in accordance
with Subsection B (Applicability), below, shall comply with each standard
contained in this Chapter. Proposed projects shall also comply with all
applicable development requirements in the Reedley City Code, including but not
limited to Building Permit requirements, Zoning Code requirements, Grading
Permit requirements, and development standards such as height, setbacks, floor
area ratio.
   B.   Applicability. The standards established in this Chapter shall apply to
the following projects:
      1.   Eligible Streamlined Approval Projects. A project that qualifies for
streamlined approval in compliance with Government Code Section 65913.4.
      2.   Multi-Unit Residential Structure. Any residential structure
containing two or more attached residential dwelling units, each of which is
for the occupancy by one or more persons, including duplexes, triplexes,
fourplexes, apartments, condominiums, and townhouses.
      3.   Mixed-Use. A structure consisting of residential and non-residential
uses (i.e., commercial retail, retail service, office, civic, institutional)
with at least two-thirds of the square footage designated for residential use,
transitional housing, or supportive housing.
   C.   Objective Standards. As defined by Government Code Section 65913.4,
objective design standards are standards that involve no personal or subjective
judgement by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an
external and uniform benchmark. The standards established in this Chapter shall
be mandatory for all projects identified in Subsection A, above, for which a
streamlined approval process is requested pursuant to Government Code Section
65913.4.
   D.   Exceptions to the Design Standards. Projects seeking exceptions or
deviations to the standards established in this Chapter, or projects which do
not qualify for a streamlined approval process in compliance with Government
Code Section 65913.4, shall have the option to apply for Director's Discretion
subject to appeal to the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.56.030: APPROVAL AUTHORITY:
The Community Development Director shall use the standards established in this
Chapter to review and approve developments that meet all the criteria
established in Government Code Section 65913.4. The Director's approval can be
appealed in compliance with Section
10.88.050 (Appeals). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.56.040: SITE PLANNING AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Project Density. The residential density of the project shall be
compliant with the maximum density allowed within that land use designation
unless the applicant qualifies for and requests additional density pursuant to
the Density Bonus Law in Government Code Section 65915.
   B.   Structure Orientation and Location. Projects shall comply with the
following structure orientation and location standards:
      1.   Separation Between Multiple Structures. There shall be a minimum of
ten feet (10') between structures. The space between structures shall be
unobstructed, accessible to all residents, and include sidewalks, sitting
areas, or live plantings.
      2.   Controlled Vehicular Entries. Controlled vehicular entries (e.g.,
gates, boom barrier, guard booth) shall be located a minimum of twenty feet
(20') from the property line to provide adequate stacking space for vehicles
entering the site/parking structure.
   C.   Entry Connection. All structure entries shall be connected to a public
sidewalk by a pedestrian walkway a minimum of four feet (4') in width.
   D.   Parking and Circulation. Qualifying projects shall comply with the
following parking and circulation standards:
      1.   Parking Requirement. Projects shall provide a minimum of one parking
space per unit, unless the development falls within any of the categories
described below and in Government Code Section 65913.4(e)(1). All other
projects shall provide the minimum number of parking spaces required by
Chapter 10.38  (Parking and Loading).
         a.   The development is located within one-half (0.5) mile of public
transit.
         b.   The development is located within an architecturally and
historically significant historic district.
         c.   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to
the occupants of the development.
         d.   When there is a car share vehicle located within one (1) block of
the development.
      2.   Parking Areas Adjacent to Residential Structures. Parking areas
adjacent to residential structures shall be separated by a walkway a minimum of
four feet (4') in width, exclusive of a parking space overhang. See Figure
10.56-1 (Example Parking Area).
      3.   Parking Space Location. Parking spaces shall be located a minimum of
ten feet (10') from any curb cut entering the parcel to provide adequate
ingress/egress. The distance shall be measured from the property line to the
first parking space. See Figure 10.56-1 (Example Parking Area).
Figure 10.56-1
Example Parking Area
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3479.png]
 
      4.   Pedestrian Circulation. All structures, entries, facilities,
amenities, and parking areas shall be internally connected with pedestrian
pathways. Pedestrian pathways shall have at least one connection to the public
sidewalk along each street frontage. See Figure 10.56-1 (Example Parking Area).
   E.   Lighting. Projects shall comply with the following lighting standards:
      1.   Lighting Required. All structures, entryways, stairwells, porch
areas, parking areas, refuse enclosures, active outdoor/landscape areas, gates,
and pedestrian pathways shall include lighting for safety and security. See
Figure 10.56-2 (Lighting Design).
      2.   Lighting Spill. Lighting shall be fully shielded, directed downward
(not above the horizontal plane), and shall not spill onto or be directed
toward adjacent properties. See Figure 10.56-2 (Lighting Design).
Figure 10.56-2
Lighting Design
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3481.png]
 
   F.   Utility and Service Areas. Projects shall comply with the following
utility and service standards:
      1.   Refuse Enclosures. Trash, recycling, organic waste, and green waste
bins and dumpsters shall be consistent with fire and building codes and shall
be housed in a covered refuse enclosure with a gate that screens the trash
receptacles. Sizing of the enclosures shall conform to solid waste provider
requirements.
      2.   Refuse Enclosure Access. Refuse enclosures shall have both a
vehicular access gate with a concrete apron, and a pedestrian entrance. Gates
shall be opaque. Access shall conform to solid waste provider requirements.
   G.   Open Space. Projects shall provide either private open space or common
open space with outdoor amenities in compliance with the following open space
standards. Eligible projects are not required to provide both private open
space and common open space with outdoor amenities, unless otherwise proposed
by the applicant.
      1.   Private Open Space. A project which includes private open space
shall provide private open space for all dwelling units in compliance with the
following:
         a.   Private open space shall be provided in the form of a private
yard, porch, balcony, roof garden, or patio.
         b.   Private open space shall be contiguous to the dwelling unit it
serves.
         c.   Private open space located at ground level shall be a minimum of
one hundred and twenty (120) square feet in area with a minimum dimension of
ten feet (10') in width and depth.
         d.   Private open space located above ground level shall be a minimum
of sixty (60) square feet in area with a minimum dimension of six feet (6') in
width and depth.
      2.   Common Open Space with Outdoor Amenities. A project which includes
common open space shall provide common open space with outdoor amenities for
all dwelling units in compliance with Table 10.56-A (Outdoor Amenities) and the
following:
         a.   Projects shall provide common outdoor open space with outdoor
amenities in accordance with this Subsection. This is achieved through the
implementation of passive or active amenities. Applicants shall provide passive
amenities or active amenities but do not need to provide both unless otherwise
proposed. Required amenity areas may be combined into a single area if the
minimum requirements for each amenity area are met within the combined area.
            (1)   Passive Amenities. Passive amenities include community
gardens, outdoor gathering/seating area, picnic/barbeque area, pet area/dog
park, or courtyard/ plaza. Each passive amenity area shall include a minimum
seating capacity of one for each ten (10) units and at least one of the
following: trellis, gas fire pit, BBQ, or picnic table.
            (2)   Active Amenities. Active recreation amenities include
playgrounds, tot lots, sport court or field, outdoor fitness area, swimming
pool, exercise structure or complex, clubhouse with associated kitchen,
recreation hall, or community room.
         b.   Common outdoor open space shall be unobstructed, accessible to
all residents of the structure it serves, and shall have no dimension less than
ten feet (10') in any direction.
         c.   Internal courtyards and common areas shall be visible from the
street, parking areas, pedestrian pathways, and/or interior structure entries.
Table 10.56-A
Outdoor Amenities
Table 10.56-A
Outdoor Amenities
** Important Note: Provide a minimum of one or the other
Number of Units in Project Required Passive         Required Active
                           Recreational Amenities   Recreational Amenities
2-15                       0                        0
16-32                      2 with a minimum area of 0
                           200 sq. ft. total
32-64                      2 with a minimum area of 2 with a minimum area of
                           300 sq. ft. total        500 sq. ft. total
65-100                     2 with a minimum area of 2 with a minimum area of
                           400 sq. ft. total        800 sq. ft. total
101+                       2 with a minimum area of 2 with a minimum area of
                           500 sq. ft. total        1,000 sq. ft. total
 
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.56.050: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Blank Walls. To avoid the appearance of blank walls, street facing, and
publicly visible walls shall incorporate a minimum of one of the following
features:
      1.   A change in contrasting color or material a minimum of every thirty
feet (30');
      2.   Bay windows, box windows, or other similar projecting windows that
project a minimum of one foot from the structure façade a minimum of every
fifteen feet (15'); and
      3.   Above-ground balconies located a minimum of one every thirty feet
(30') on each floor. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.58
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES REQUIRING BIOSAFETY LEVELS 2-3 CONTAINMENT
SECTION:
10.58.010: Purpose And Intent
10.58.020: Applicability
10.58.030: Locational Requirements
10.58.040: Application Requirements
10.58.050: Conditions Of Approval
10.58.060: Required Recommendations
10.58.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to regulate research and
development activities requiring Biosafety Levels 2-3 containment in order to
ensure the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the City of Reedley
and to ensure that all research and development activities shall operate in
accordance with the regulations of the Reedley Municipal Code, conditions of
approval, the laws and regulations of Fresno County, the laws and regulations
of the State of California, and the laws and regulations of the Federal
government. Biosafety Level 4 shall not be permitted within the City of
Reedley. It is also the purpose of this Chapter to establish regulations
necessary for biological research activities requiring Biosafety Levels 2-
3 containment, except such activities regulated under the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.58.020: APPLICABILITY:
This section shall apply to research and development activities that require
Biosafety Levels 2-3 containment as defined by the most recent version of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institutes of Health -
Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories manual, except such
activities regulated under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of
1988 (CLIA). Biosafety Level 4 shall not be permitted within the City of
Reedley. The section applies to facilities that handle biological agents
derived from the human body or other infectious material for the purpose of
providing information for the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of any
disease or impairment of, or the assessment of the health of, human beings. If
there is ambiguity on the applicability of this section, the Director shall
determine such application and use to be applicable to this section. Activities
shall include but not be limited to the following:
   A.   Warehousing and storage of biological agents that require Biosafety
Levels 2-3 containment;
   B.   Medical and or pharmaceutical research using biological agents that
require Biosafety Levels 2-3 containment;
   C.   Manufacturing and production using biological agents that require
Biosafety Levels 2-3 containment;
   D.   Chemical research, development, and or production using biological
agents that require Biosafety Levels 2-3 containment;
   E.   Agricultural product development, research, and other uses that use
biological agents requiring Biosafety Levels 2-3 containment; and
   F.   Any use not specified above but uses biological agents requiring
Biosafety Levels 2-3 containment. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.58.030: LOCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Such use(s) shall be located no closer than two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') from any sensitive use(s). A sensitive use shall be defined as a
religious institution, post-secondary educational institution, public education
facility, structure, and or building, any public building regularly frequented
by children and senior citizens, essential government operation, library,
public park, community center, public trail, public building, a residential
zone district and or a residentially occupied structure.
   B.   Such use(s) shall be located no closer than two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') from any flood fringe and/or floodway areas.
   C.   Such use(s) shall be located no closer than two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') from the Kings River.
   D.   Such use(s) shall be located no closer than two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') from Traver Creek.
   E.   Only the City Council shall approve a request to modify from the
locational requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.58.040: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
A Conditional Use Permit application shall be required to operate within the
City of Reedley subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Pre-Application Meeting. The applicant shall have a pre-application
meeting with owners and tenants of real property within two thousand five
hundred feet (2,500') from the affected property prior to application
submittal. Proof of such meeting shall be provided in the application submittal
in order for the application to be deemed complete. An invite to such meeting
shall be extended, and proof provided thereof, to the Kings Canyon Unified
School District, Alta Irrigation District, Fresno County Department of Public
Health, Reedley Community Development Department, Reedley Fire Department, and
the Reedley Police Department. The applicant is responsible to provide due and
timely notice to the owners and tenants of real property and the aforementioned
entities. A meeting summary shall be provided to the Reedley Community
Development Department within forty-eight (48) hours of said meeting. A
conditional use permit application cannot be deemed complete without the
applicant or the applicant's representative holding a pre-application meeting.
   B.   Application. In addition to submittal requirements for a conditional
use permit application, the applicant shall provide the following information:
      1.   Type of facility;
      2.   Activities to occur onsite of the facility;
      3.   Full and complete list of biological agents that require Biosafety
Levels 2-3 containment;
      4.   Full and complete list of flammable agents and the proximity to
biological agents;
      5.   Full and complete description of handling procedures and prohibited
practices that may increase the likelihood for exposure to infectious agents;
      6.   Identification and description of effective and appropriate personal
protective equipment to be used to minimize exposure to infectious or
potentially infectious germs, chemicals, biological agents, laboratory
aerosols, diseases, or any and all items which may potentially pose a danger to
the public;
      7.   Floor plan showing location and placement of personal protective
equipment, safety signage, fire hose(s), sprinklers and or fire suppression
system(s), emergency exits, and placement of gate and or wall mounted lock box
(es);
      8.   Full and complete effective decontamination and disinfection
procedures for laboratory surfaces and equipment;
      9.   Containment plan for biological agents;
      10.   Care plan for any and all animals stored on- or offsite;
      11.   A list of all job classifications;
      12.   Commit to hold quarterly neighborhood meetings with owners and
tenants of real property within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of the
affected property to report out any and all safety incidents, the
implementation of current and or new safety protocols, and listening to
concerns from the public. Meeting summaries shall be posted to the company's
website. Failure to hold quarterly neighborhood meetings shall result in
revocation of the conditional use permit application approval and business
license; and
      13.   A Waste Management Plan which shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
         a.   Required training plan for onsite and offsite personnel and
contractors;
         b.   Collection schedule;
         c.   Waste containment protocols;
         d.   Treatment measures for waste accumulated onsite prior to waste
removal; and
         e.   Emergency Action Plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.58.050: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Other Approvals. The applicant or their authorized representative shall
provide a copy of all approvals from Fresno County, the State of California,
and or the Federal government.
   B.   Release of Liability. The applicant or their authorized representative
shall prepare an agreement to be executed indemnifying the City from any
claims, damages, injuries, or liabilities of any kind associated with the use/
business or the prosecution of the applicant or licensee or its members and or
personnel for violation(s) of the laws and regulations of Fresno County, the
State of California, and or the Federal government.
   C.   Neighborhood Meetings. The applicant or their authorized representative
shall hold quarterly neighborhood meetings with owners and tenants of real
property within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of the affected
property to report out any and all safety incidents, the implementation of any
and all current and new safety protocols, and listening to any and all concerns
from the public. Meeting summaries shall be posted to the company's website.
Failure to hold quarterly neighborhood meetings shall result in the revocation
of the conditional use permit application approval and business license.
   D.   Reimbursement Agreement. The applicant or their authorized
representative shall agree to reimburse the City of Reedley for any court costs
and attorney fees that the City may be required to pay as a result of any legal
challenge related to the City's approval.
   E.   Inspections. The applicant or their authorized representative shall
agree to and permit, without any obstruction, City, County, and Federal
inspectors and authorize agents to conduct safety and compliance inspections.
   F.   Business License. The applicant or their authorized representative
shall at all times maintain a current and valid business license. Failure to do
so will result in revocation of the conditional use permit application
approval. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.58.060: REQUIRED RECOMMENDATIONS:
   A.   The Police Chief of their designee shall make a recommendation to the
Community Development Director, prior to the Planning Commission's
consideration of the conditional use permit application, for security measures
for each application based upon the information provided in the application
submittal. Recommended security measures shall be determined on a case-by-case
basis upon review by the Police Chief or their designee. The applicant shall be
required to implement recommendation(s).
   B.   The Fire Chief or their designee shall make a recommendation to the
Community Development Director, prior to the Planning Commission's
consideration of the conditional use permit application, for the inclusion of
safety measures for each application based upon the information provided in the
application submittal. Recommended safety measures shall be determined on a
case-by-case basis upon review by the Fire Chief or their designee. The
applicant shall be required to implement recommendation(s). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-
10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.60
SMOKE SHOP AND TOBACCO STORE
SECTION:
10.60.010: Conditional Use Permit Required
10.60.020: Concentration Of Establishments
10.60.030: Proximity To Sensitive Uses
10.60.040: Glazing And Window Transparency
10.60.050: Neighborhood Meetings
10.60.010: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
There shall be no City of Reedley Business License issued for any new smoke
shop and/or tobacco store wishing to establish business in the City without a
Conditional Use Permit processed and approved in compliance with Chapter 10.100
(Conditional Use Permit). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.60.020: CONCENTRATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS:
Existing smoke shops and/or tobacco stores shall not be allowed to relocate to
a site that would create an over-concentration in one area. Over concentration
shall be presumed to apply when a relocating smoke shop and/or tobacco store is
sought to be opened within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property boundary
of a currently permitted and operating smoke shop and/or tobacco store. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.60.030: PROXIMITY TO SENSITIVE USES:
Existing Smoke Shops and/or Tobacco Stores shall not be permitted to relocate
and seek to be opened within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property
boundary of a Sensitive Use. "Sensitive Uses" shall be defined as "religious
institution, school, regularly established boys' club or girls' club or public
building regularly frequented by children, public park, public trail or public
building; or within six hundred feet (600') of any residential zone." (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.60.040: GLAZING AND WINDOW TRANSPARENCY:
The windows of the business shall not be transparently visible and
unobstructed. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.60.050: NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS:
Prior to the submission of a Conditional Use Permit application, the applicant
shall have a neighborhood meeting, providing notice of said meeting to property
owners, business owners, and tenants within two thousand feet (2,000') of the
proposed business. The Community Development Department shall be invited to
attend said neighborhood meeting. Proof of said neighborhood meeting shall be
provided to the Community Development Department in order for the application
to be reviewed for completeness. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
ARTICLE 5. NONCONFORMITIES
CHAPTER 10.70
GENERAL NONCONFORMING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10.70.010: Purpose And Intent
10.70.020: Establishment Of Nonconforming Uses And Structures
10.70.030: Continuation And Maintenance
10.70.040: Legal Substandard Parcels
10.70.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to allow continued utility and
economic viability of uses, structures, parcel features, and parcels that were
lawful before the adoption, or amendment of this Zoning Code, but which would
be prohibited, regulated, or restricted differently under the current terms of
this Zoning Code or future amendments.
   B.   Intent. It is the intent of this Chapter to allow for legal
nonconforming uses to exist under the limited conditions established in this
chapter while limiting their enlargement or expansion. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.70.020: ESTABLISHMENT OF NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Nonconforming Use. A nonconforming use is a use of a structure and or
land which was lawfully established and maintained before the adoption of this
Title, but which, under this Title, does not conform with the use regulations
for the zoning district in which it is located. This Chapter is intended to
limit the number and extent of nonconforming uses by prohibiting their
enlargement and their reestablishment after abandonment and by prohibiting the
alteration of the structures they occupy and their restoration after
destruction within a reasonable period of time.
   B.   Nonconforming Structure. A nonconforming structure is a structure which
was lawfully erected before the adoption of this title, but which, under this
title, does not conform with the standards of coverage, setback space, height
of structures or distance between structures prescribed in the regulations for
the zoning district in which the structure is located.
   C.   Nonconforming Parking or Loading. An existing use of land and or
structure shall not be determined to be nonconforming solely because of a lack
of on-site parking and/or loading facilities required by this Code, provided
that facilities used for on-site parking and/or loading as of the date of
adoption of this Code are not subsequently reduced in number to less than
required by this Code. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.70.030: CONTINUATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   A use lawfully occupying a structure or a parcel on the date this
Zoning Code became effective, or amendments thereto, which does not conform
with the use regulations for the zoning district in which the use is located
shall be deemed to be a nonconforming use and may be continued, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
   B.   A structure lawfully occupying a parcel on the date this Zoning Code
became effective, or of amendments thereto, which does not conform with the
standards of coverage, front setback, side setbacks, rear setback, or distances
between structures prescribed in the regulations for the zoning district in
which the structure is located, shall be deemed to be a nonconforming structure
and may be used and maintained except as otherwise provided in this section.
   C.   Routine maintenance and repairs may be made to a structure or parcel
with a nonconforming use or on a nonconforming structure. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.70.040: LEGAL SUBSTANDARD PARCELS:
   A.   Legal Substandard Parcels. The following parcels shall be excluded from
the minimum parcel area requirements, referred to as "legal substandard
parcels":
      1.   Any parcel having an area, frontage, width or depth, less than the
minimum prescribed for the district in which the site is located, which is
shown on a duly approved and recorded subdivision map, or for which a deed or
valid contract of sale was of record prior to the adoption of this title, and
which had a legal area, frontage, width and depth at the time that the
subdivision map, deed or contract of sale was recorded;
      2.   Any parcel of record in any area thus far or hereafter annexed to
the city, of record as of the time of such annexation, and which was not in
violation of any area requirement of any county ordinance on zoning or
subdivisions, in effect at the time of such annexation; or
      3.   Certain parcels mentioned in Paragraphs 1 and 2, above, relating to
the effect of eminent domain.
   B.   No parcel with common side parcel lines with another parcel under
common ownership shall be deemed to be a legal substandard parcel within the
exception of the minimum parcel area requirements.
   C.   If the area of a parcel is reduced below the minimum requirement, such
parcel shall be deemed to be a legal substandard parcel under the provisions of
Subsection
10.70.040.A (Legal Substandard Parcels), and any existing structure on the
parcel shall be deemed to be nonconforming.
   D.   If a required setback is reduced below the minimum requirement or
eliminated, any affected structure shall be deemed nonconforming; however, such
structure may be altered or enlarged if such alterations or enlargements comply
with all other requirements of the zoning district in which the parcel is
located.
   E.   Where a group of legal substandard parcels have common side parcel
lines and are under a common ownership and have in the aggregate less than the
minimum area requirement, the City may require a voluntary lot merger of said
parcels to form a single legal substandard parcel pursuant to Government Code
66451.10 and Title 11. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.72
NONCONFORMING PARCELS
SECTION:
10.72.010: Continuation Of Legal Nonconforming Parcels
10.72.020: Modification Of Legal Nonconforming Parcels
10.72.010: CONTINUATION OF LEGAL NONCONFORMING PARCELS:
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a parcel having an area,
frontage, width, or depth, less than the minimum prescribed for the zoning
district in which the parcel is located, which is shown on a duly approved and
recorded subdivision map, or for which a deed or valid contract of sale was of
record before the adoption of this title, and which had a legal area, frontage,
width and depth at the time that the subdivision map, deed or contract of sale
was recorded, may be used for any allowed use listed for the zoning district in
which the parcel is located, but shall be subject to all other regulations of
the applicable zone district. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.72.020: MODIFICATION OF LEGAL NONCONFORMING PARCELS:
Nonconforming parcels may be used for development subject to compliance with
all other provisions of this part and other applicable laws. A Nonconforming
parcel may not be further reduced in area or dimension. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
CHAPTER 10.74
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10.74.010: Continuation of Legal Nonconforming Structures
10.74.010: CONTINUATION OF LEGAL NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Alterations and Additions to Nonconforming Structures. No nonconforming
structure shall be altered or enlarged to increase the nonconformance with
applicable coverage, front setback, side setbacks, rear setback, height, or
distance regulations for the zoning district in which the structure is located
unless the alteration or enlargement shall conform to the standards prescribed
in the regulations prescribed for the zoning district in which the structure is
located. No nonconforming structure shall be moved or reconstructed unless the
new location shall conform to the standards prescribed in the regulations
prescribed for the zoning district in which the structure is located.
   B.   Restoration of Damaged Structure. Whenever a nonconforming structure is
destroyed by fire, earthquake, human caused-incident, or other natural
calamity, the structure may be restored and the nonconforming use may resume,
provided that:
      1.   A building permit for the restoration is issued within twenty-four
(24) months of the incident and a certificate of occupancy is issued within
thirty-six (36) months of building permit issuance.
      2.   If a building permit for restoration is not issued within twenty-
four (24) months of the incident, then the structure shall not be restored
except in full conformity with the regulations of the applicable zone district
in which it is located, and the nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
      3.   If a certificate of occupancy is not issued within thirty-six (36)
months of building permit issuance, then the structure shall not be restored
except in full conformity with the regulations of the applicable zone district
in which it is located, and the nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
      4.   If additional time is needed, a request in writing to the Community
Development Director shall be submitted.
   C.   Demolition. An existing nonconforming structure that is demolished
shall lose any legal nonconforming status and may only be replaced or rebuilt
if the entire structure is made to comply with all currently applicable Zoning
Code requirements unless:
      1.   The existing structure is commercial or industrial and is altered in
accordance with all of the following criteria:
         a.   The alterations only involve the replacement of the footings,
cripple walls, stem walls, or similar structural components between the
structure's footings and the finished floor of the first story;
         b.   The alterations are only undertaken to the minimum extent
necessary to maintain a safe structure;
         c.   The existing exterior wall elements or principal support
structure remain in place at all times and provide necessary structural support
to the structure upon completion of the alterations; and
         d.   No new floor area is added.
      2.   The existing structure is residential and is altered in accordance
with all of the following criteria:
         a.   The alterations only involve the replacement of the footings,
cripple walls, stem walls, or similar structural components between the
structure's footings and the finished floor of the first story; and
         b.   The existing first story exterior wall elements remain in place
at all times and provide necessary structural support to the structure upon
completion of the alteration. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.78
ABATEMENT/EXTENSION OF NONCONFORMING USES/STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10.78.010: Purpose And Intent
10.78.020: Applicability And Permit Applications
10.78.030: Required Findings
10.78.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide regulations for
abatement and extension of nonconforming structures that were lawful before the
adoption, or amendment of this Zoning Code, but which would be prohibited,
regulated, or restricted differently under the current terms of this Zoning
Code or future amendments.
   B.   Intent.  It is the intent of this section to discourage the long-term
continuance of nonconformities, providing for their eventual elimination, while
allowing them to exist under the limited conditions established in this
Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.78.020: APPLICABILITY AND PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
A nonconforming structure may undergo normal maintenance and repairs, provided
no structural alterations are made except as provided in Section
10.74.010.C (Demolition), unless the Planning Commission allows more extensive
work through Conditional Use Permit approval, subject to appeal to the City
Council. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.78.030: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
The Planning Commission shall issue a Conditional Use Permit for extensive work
on a nonconforming structure only if all of the following findings can be made:
   A.   The altered structure will not significantly increase any identified
impact such as traffic, on-street parking or noise.
   B.   The altered structure will be compatible with any existing
nonconforming and conforming use on-site.
   C.   The altered structure will not impair the character and integrity of
the neighborhood.
   D.   The altered structure will not impair the utility or value of adjacent
property or the general welfare of the neighborhood.
   E.   The altered structure is not detrimental to the public peace, health,
safety, morals, or welfare. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
ARTICLE 6. PERMIT PROCESSING PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 10.80
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10.80.010: Purpose
10.80.020: Multiple Permit Applications
10.80.030: Additional Permits May Be Required
10.80.010: PURPOSE:
This Article establishes the overall structure for the application, processing,
review, and action on ministerial and discretionary permit applications and
identifies and describes those permits and other approvals required by this
Zoning Code. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.80.020: MULTIPLE PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Concurrent Filing. An applicant for a development project that requires
the filing of more than one application (e.g., Site Plan Review, Conditional
Use Permit, Tentative Map), shall file all related applications concurrently,
together with all application fees, unless these requirements are waived by the
Director.
   B.   An application that involves both ministerial and discretionary
approvals shall be processed concurrently starting with the discretionary
review type required for the project. The ministerial application shall only be
processed until after the discretionary application has been approved and the
applicable appeal period has passed. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.80.030: ADDITIONAL PERMITS MAY BE REQUIRED:
An applicant shall obtain all necessary permits before starting work or
establishing a new land use. Nothing in this Zoning Code shall eliminate the
need to obtain any permits required by:
   A.   Any other Reedley City Code provisions, including Building, Grading,
Fire, or other construction permits, or subdivision approval as required by
Title 11 (Subdivision Regulations); or
   B.   Any applicable County, regional, State, or Federal regulations. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.82
ZONE CLEARANCE
SECTION:
10.82.010: Purpose
10.82.020: Applicability
10.82.030: Review Authority
10.82.040: Application Requirements
10.82.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish procedures for conducting a Zone
Clearance to verify that new or expanded uses or structures comply with all the
applicable requirements of this Code and with any applicable policies or
standards of the General Plan and any operative plans. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.82.020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Establishment of Allowed Land Uses. A Zone Clearance is required to
confirm the establishment of a new land use is allowed as a matter of right and
that no Conditional Use Permit or other entitlements are required prior to
securing a Business License and commencing operations.
   B.   When Required. A Zone Clearance shall be required for:
      1.   A Zone Clearance shall be required for the development of a single-
unit dwelling residence, with or without an accessory dwelling unit(s) and/or
junior accessory dwelling unit.
      2.   A Zone Clearance shall be required for the development of a two-unit
dwelling residence, with or without an accessory dwelling unit(s) and/or junior
accessory dwelling unit.
      3.   A Zone Clearance shall be required to confirm the construction of
such a structure is allowed as a matter of right and that such a project is
compliant with, and without any deviations from, all applicable development
standards of the zone district prior to securing a Building Permit. If a
proposed project or land use does not meet the threshold for a Zone Clearance,
it shall be required to secure the applicable entitlement application(s) needed
for approval.
      4.   A Zone Clearance shall be required for all Home Occupations and
Short-Term Rentals prior to the issuance of a Business License. (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
10.82.030: REVIEW AUTHORITY:
If the Community Development Director determines that the proposed land use or
structure is allowed as a matter of right by this Code and conforms to all the
applicable development and operational standards, the Director shall issue a
Zone Clearance. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.82.040: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applications for a Zone Clearance shall be submitted in accordance with
the provisions of this title accompanied with the applicable fees proscribed in
the Master Fee Schedule.
   B.   The Community Development Director shall require that the Zone
Clearance application be accompanied by a written operational statement, plans,
and other related materials necessary to show that the proposed development,
alteration, or use of the site complies with all applicable provisions of this
Code. The Director may require attachments of other written or graphic
information, including, but not limited to, statements, numeric data, site
plans, floor plans, and building elevations and sections, as record of the
proposal's conformity with applicable regulations of this Code.
   C.   Public notice is not required for the department to consider approval,
conditional approval, or denial of a Zone Clearance application. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.84
HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS AND PERMIT
SECTION:
10.84.010: Purpose
10.84.020: Review Authority
10.84.030: Application Processing Procedures
10.84.040: Prohibited Home Occupations
10.84.050: Standards
10.84.060: Conditions Of Approval
10.84.070: Appeals
10.84.080: Modification
10.84.090: Termination Of Home Occupation
10.84.100: Violation And Revocation
10.84.010: PURPOSE:
The intent of this Chapter is to establish a procedure for the conduct of an
art or profession, the offering of a service or the conduct of a business, or
the handicraft manufacture of products within a residential dwelling, which use
is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the structure for dwelling
purposes and which does not change the character thereof, in compliance with
the regulations prescribed in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.020: REVIEW AUTHORITY:
The Community Development Director or their designee shall review the Home
Occupation Permit application and approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
permit based on the criteria for home occupations established in this Chapter.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.030: APPLICATION PROCESSING PROCEDURES:
A complete application for a Home Occupation Permit that fully complies with
this Chapter shall be filed, processed, and acted upon as specified in
Chapter 10.82 (Zone Clearance). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.040: PROHIBITED HOME OCCUPATIONS.:
The following specific businesses are not permitted as home occupations:
   A.   Adult-oriented business as defined in
Title 3 Chapter 12;
   B.   Ambulance services;
   C.   Animal boarding and or pet grooming services that are not mobile;
   D.   Automotive/vehicle repair that is not mobile;
   E.   Automotive/vehicle sales where vehicles are parked at the residence;
   F.   Barber, beauty, nail salons that are not mobile;
   G.   Businesses that involve hazardous materials or chemicals outside
typical home or hobby use, as deemed so by the Community Development Department
and subject to appeal to the Planning Commission;
   H.   Large scale carpentry and cabinet-making;
   I.   Firearms manufacturing and or repairs of any kind;
   J.   Furniture sales of any kind;
   K.   Gymnastic facilities;
   L.   Kennels;
   M.   Massage parlor that is not mobile;
   N.   No more than three Home Occupations are permitted on one parcel at any
given time;
   O.   Laboratories of any type;
   P.   Marijuana grow and or distribution;
   Q.   Mini-storage;
   R.   Mortuaries;
   S.   Instructional services for more than six (6) students at one time;
   T.   Pharmacies;
   U.   Large scale copy centers;
   V.   Recording studios of any kind;
   W.   Repair, fix-it, or plumbing services that are not mobile;
   X.   Restaurants;
   Y.   Retail sales that require people to pick up items at the home
occupation location;
   Z.   Tanning salon with tanning beds;
   AA.   Tattoo, body piercing.
   BB.   Towing service that is not mobile;
   CC.   Welding, metal working, and machine businesses that are not mobile;
   DD.   Yoga instruction or personal fitness training for more than six (6)
people at one time;
   EE.   Any use identified in the commercial zone districts unless it conforms
to the home occupation standards described herein; and/or
   FF.   Any other use(s) that the Director determines would be detrimental to
the public health, safety, and general welfare or would be incompatible with
nearby residential uses. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.050 STANDARDS:
The applicant of a Home Occupation Permit shall comply with the following
standards:
   A.   A home occupation within a dwelling unit shall be clearly incidental to
the use of the structure as a dwelling.
   B.   The existence of a home occupation shall not be apparent beyond the
boundaries of the site.
   C.   The building shall maintain the appearance of a single-unit dwelling at
all times. Window displays of products produced on the premises shall not be
allowed.
   D.   There shall be no storage of equipment or supplies outside of any
accessory structure(s), garage(s), or dwelling unit, provided that any required
off street parking space is maintained.
   E.   The sale of goods shall be limited to the products of the home
occupation, and no other merchandise or goods shall be sold, kept, or displayed
for the purpose of sale on the premises.
   F.   A home occupation may involve the performance of business and
professional services in which goods, wares and merchandise are not
commercially created, sold, or exchanged.
   G.   A home occupation shall not involve the performance of any repair
services on the premises.
   H.   A home occupation shall not involve the use of any material or
mechanical equipment not recognized as being part of normal household or hobby
uses, as deemed so by the Community Development Department and subject to
appeal to the Planning Commission.
   I.   No motor power other than electrically operated motors shall be used in
connection with a home occupation.
   J.   A home occupation shall not create any radio or television interference
or noise audible beyond the walls of the dwelling.
   K.   Not more than three (3) vehicles used in connection with the home
occupation shall be kept on the property.
   L.   The number of persons (including customers and employees) who must
travel to the site of the home occupation shall not exceed eight (8) persons
per day.
   M.   A business license shall be obtained for the home occupation and
maintained at all times during its operation. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.060: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
The development and operational standards established in this Chapter shall
serve as conditions which shall be met by the applicant. Additional
requirements or conditions may be added as deemed necessary by the Community
Development Director to maintain the integrity of the residential neighborhood
in which the home occupation is proposed. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.070: APPEALS:
In the event the applicant or member of the public is not satisfied with any
condition(s) of approval, or the application for a Zone Clearance application
for a Home Occupation Permit is denied, the decision may be appealed in
compliance with this Title within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-
recognized holidays) following the decision date. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.080: MODIFICATION:
A Home Occupation Permit shall be modified in the same manner as originally
applied for by the applicant. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.090: TERMINATION OF HOME OCCUPATION:
A Home Occupation Permit which is issued under the provisions of this Chapter
shall automatically terminate when the activity which is the subject of the
home occupation is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months
or upon the change in residence of the person or persons to whom the Home
Occupation Permit is issued; provided this Section shall not be interpreted as
prohibiting the issuance by the City of a Home Occupation Permit with a
specified time limit. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.84.100: VIOLATION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Upon violation of any applicable provisions of this Chapter, or, if
granted subject to a condition or conditions, upon failure to comply with the
condition(s), a Home Occupation permit shall be suspended and/or revoked in
compliance with this Section.
   B.   Notice of such suspension and of the City's intent to revoke the
approved Home Occupation Permit shall be sent by the Community Development
Director immediately to the owner of the subject premises and to the person or
persons responsible for noncompliance as determined by the Director.
   C.   Within forty-five (45) calendar days (excluding City-recognized
holidays) of the suspension, after notice to the owner and to those deemed
responsible for noncompliance, the Community Development Director shall
consider the suspension and revocation at a public hearing. If not satisfied
that the regulation, general provision, or condition(s) are being complied
with, the Director shall revoke the approved Home Occupation Permit or take
such action as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the regulation,
general provision, or condition(s) within five (5) calendar days (excluding
City-recognized holidays) after the public hearing. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.86
DIRECTOR'S DETERMINATION
SECTION:
10.86.010: Application
10.86.010: APPLICATION:
Should there be a conflict in this Title, an applicant may petition the
Community Development Director to make an appealable determination.
   A.   Application. The applicant shall provide a detailed operational
statement that, at a minimum, provides:
      1.   A clear definition of the use and a thorough explanation that
outlines how the proposed use differs from other uses already identified in the
Code.
      2.   A minimum of three (3) examples how other communities administer the
applicable section(s) of the Code section that is in question.
      3.   A minimum of three (3) local examples, including photographs of how
the proposed project or use fits into similar neighborhoods.
   B.   Required Findings. In curing a conflict within the zoning code, the
Review Authority shall first make the following finding that all of the
following conditions exist:
      1.   The proposed project will not cause substantial injury to the value
of the property in neighborhoods or districts within which it is likely to be
located; and
      2.   The subject use will be so controlled that the public health,
safety, and general welfare will be protected.
      3.   The proposed project is consistent with the General Plan.
   C.   The Director shall post determinations on the City's website within
twenty-four (24)-hours of making a determination.
   D.   The Director's Discretion is appealable to the Planning Commission in
accordance with Section
10.88.050 (Appeals). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.88
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW APPLICATION
SECTION:
10.88.010: Purpose
10.88.020: Applicability
10.88.030: Application Filing
10.88.040: Findings And Decision
10.88.050: Appeals
10.88.060: Building Permit
10.88.070: Violation And Revocation
10.88.010: PURPOSE:
This Chapter establishes the procedures for approval of land uses, including
temporary land uses, by an administrative act where findings can be made that
such land use complies with the intent and provisions of the zoning district
regulations and other applicable regulations of this Title. The provisions of
this Chapter recognize the impracticality of listing certain uses as
categorically possessing the characteristics of those uses listed under either
the allowed uses or conditional uses sections of the various zoning districts
provided in this Title. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.88.020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Except as provided in this Chapter, the provisions of this Chapter
shall apply to all land uses subject to administrative approval.
   B.   Any land use subject to administrative approval shall be considered as
if it were an allowed land use in the zoning district where listed unless
otherwise found to require modifications under the review procedures provided
in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.88.030: APPLICATION FILING:
   A.   An application for administrative approval shall be submitted to the
Community Development Director. The application shall include a statement of
the land use proposed and a site plan prepared in substantial compliance with
Chapter 10.96 (Site Plan Review). The application shall be accompanied by a fee
in accordance with the City's Master Fee Schedule.
   B.   The Community Development Director shall review the proposed land use
and shall make a written statement approving or approving with conditions, the
proposed land use, together with their findings, within forty-five (45)
calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) of the filing of the
application.
   C.   In approving the land use, the Community Development Director shall
impose any applicable conditions and requirements listed under this Article.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.88.040: FINDINGS AND DECISION:
   A.   Findings. The Community Development Director shall approve or
conditionally approve an application for administrative approval, if, based on
the application and evidence submitted, they are able to make the following
findings:
      1.   The proposed use will not involve any process, equipment, or
materials which, in the opinion of the Community Development Director, will be
objectionable to persons living or working in the vicinity by reasons of odor,
fumes, dust, smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, water carried wastes, noises,
vibration, illumination, glare or unsightliness, or to involve any hazard of
fire or explosion.
      2.   The proposed use will be harmonious with existing structures and use
of land in the vicinity.
   B.   Notice of Decision. One (1) copy of the written decision of the
Community Development Director shall be signed and posted on the City's
website. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.88.050: APPEALS:
   A.   If an applicant is not satisfied with any of the conditions of approval
imposed by the Community Development Director, the applicant shall submit an
application to the Community Development Department for a Conditional Use
Permit in the manner prescribed in
Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use Permit). Said application shall be accompanied
by a fee in accordance with the City's Master Fee Schedule. In applying for a
Conditional Use Permit, only that information and information required under
Chapter 18 of this Title need to be submitted which is required in addition to
materials submitted as part of the application for administrative approval.
   B.   If an application for administrative approval is denied by the
Community Development Director, the applicant shall submit a written appeal
within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) following
the notice of the decision date, at which point the application shall
automatically become an application for Conditional Use Permit and shall be
submitted by the applicant and processed in compliance with
Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use Permit). Said appeal shall be considered an
application for Conditional Use Permit and the fee for such shall be
accompanied with the application in accordance with the City's current Master
Fee Schedule. The applicant shall submit any additional information and
information required by the provisions of
Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use Permit) of this Title not previously submitted
with their application for administrative approval, within five (5) calendar
days (excluding city-recognized holidays) following the filing of an appeal.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.88.060: BUILDING PERMIT:
Before a Building Permit is issued for any structure proposed as part of an
approved administrative review, the Community Development Director or their
designee shall determine that the proposed structure(s) location, facilities,
and improvements are in substantial conformance with the approved
administrative review application and conditions of approval. (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
10.88.070: VIOLATION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Upon violation of any applicable provisions of this Chapter, or, if
granted subject to a condition or conditions, upon failure to comply with the
condition(s), an administrative review permit shall be suspended.
   B.   Notice of such suspension and of the City's intent to revoke the
approved administrative review permit shall be sent by the Community
Development Director immediately to the owner of the subject premises and to
the person or persons responsible for noncompliance as determined by the
Director.
   C.   Within forty-five (45) calendar days (excluding city-recognized
holidays) of the suspension, after notice to the owner and to those deemed
responsible for noncompliance, the Community Development Director shall
consider the suspension and revocation at a public hearing. If not satisfied
that the regulation, general provision, or condition(s) are being complied
with, the Director shall revoke the approved site plan or take such action as
may be necessary to ensure compliance with the regulation, general provision,
or condition(s) within five (5) calendar days after the public hearing.
   D.   A decision of the Community Development Director in compliance with
this Chapter shall become final on the eleventh calendar day (excluding City-
recognized holidays) following the Director's action unless an Appeal is filed
with the Planning Commission in compliance with Section 27.88.050 (Appeals).
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.90
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
SECTION:
10.90.010: Purpose
10.90.020: Applicability
10.90.030: Application Filing, Processing, And Review
10.90.040:Findings And Decision
10.90.050: Conditions Of Approval
10.90.010: PURPOSE:
This Chapter provides a procedure in which individuals with disabilities can
request reasonable accommodation in rules, policies, practices, and procedures
to ensure equal access to housing and facilitate the development of housing for
individuals with disabilities. It is the intent of this Chapter to comply with
the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Federal Fair Housing Act,
and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) (referred to in this Chapter as
the Acts). A Reasonable Accommodation is typically an adjustment to physical
design standards (e.g., setbacks, drive aisle dimensions, landscaping) to
accommodate the placement of wheelchair ramps or other exterior modifications
to a dwelling in response to the needs of people with disabilities. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.90.020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General.  Reasonable accommodations provide individuals with
disabilities or developers of housing for people with disabilities, flexibility
in the application of land use and zoning and building regulations, policies,
practices, and procedures, or even waiving certain requirements, when it is
necessary to eliminate barriers to housing opportunities.
   B.   Eligible Applicants. Eligible applicants include:
      1.   An individual with a disability is someone who has a physical or
mental impairment that limits one (1) or more major life activities; anyone who
is regarded as having such impairment; or anyone with a record of such
impairment.
      2.   The protections afforded people with disabilities under Federal and
state fair housing laws extend to those who are associated with them, including
providers and developers of housing for people with disabilities.
   C.   Eligible Requests. A request for reasonable accommodation may be made
by any individual with a disability, their representative, or a developer or
provider of housing for individuals with disabilities, when the application of
a land use, zoning or building regulation, policy, practice, or procedure acts
as a barrier to fair housing opportunities. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.90.030: APPLICATION FILING, PROCESSING, AND REVIEW:
   A.   Application. An application for Reasonable Accommodation shall be filed
and processed in compliance with this Section. The application shall include
the information and materials specified in the most up-to-date application
form, together with the required fee in compliance with the City of Reedley
Master Fee Schedule.
   B.   Filing with Other Land Use Applications. If the project involves both a
request for Reasonable Accommodation and some other discretionary approval
(i.e., Conditional Use Permit), the applicant shall file the request through
the operational statement of the principal discretionary application.
   C.   Responsibility of the Applicant. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to provide evidence in support of the findings required by Section
10.90.030  (Findings and Decision), of this Chapter.
   D.   Review Authority. On applications not requiring Planning Commission
and/or City Council review and approval, the Community Development Director
shall be the review authority and shall be responsible for accepting,
reviewing, and acting on Reasonable Accommodation requests.
   E.   Application and Review Procedures. Upon receipt of a Reasonable
Accommodation request, the Community Development Director shall make a written
decision and either approve, conditionally approve, approve with modifications,
or deny a request for accommodation. See Section
10.90.030  (Findings and Decision). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.90.040: FINDINGS AND DECISION:
The written decision to approve, conditionally approve, approve with
modifications, or deny a request for Reasonable Accommodation shall consider
the following factors:
   A.   Whether the land use, which is the subject of the reasonable
accommodation request, will be used by an eligible individual protected under
the Acts;
   B.   Whether the request for Reasonable Accommodation is necessary to make
specific land uses available to an individual with a disability under the Acts;
   C.   Whether the requested Reasonable Accommodation would impose an undue
financial or administrative burden on the City; and
   D.   Whether the requested Reasonable Accommodation would require a
fundamental alteration in the nature of a City program or law, including, but
not limited to, land use and zoning. For this purpose of this Chapter,
"fundamental alteration" is defined as:
      1.   A substantial change in the primary purpose or benefit of a program
or activity;
      2.   An impairment of necessary or practical components required to
achieve a program or activity's primary purpose or benefit; or
      3.   An alteration so far reaching that it would undermine the basic
purpose of maintaining the character of the neighborhood. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.90.050 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
In approving a request for Reasonable Accommodation, the Community Development
Director shall impose conditions of approval deemed reasonable and necessary to
ensure the Reasonable Accommodation will comply with Section
10.90.030 (Findings and Decision) of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.92
SETBACK EXCHANGE
SECTION:
10.92.010: Purpose
10.92.020: Applicability
10.92.030: Review Authority
10.92.040: General Standards
10.92.050: Processing, Filing, And Review
10.92.060: Findings
10.92.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide a process by which applicants can
request a reduction or modification to the setback standards established in
this Title. It is the intent of this Chapter to provide flexibility in existing
residential property development standards which would otherwise preclude
development of single-unit or multi-unit residential dwellings. (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
10.92.020: APPLICABILITY:
The standards and procedure established in this Chapter shall apply to all
parcels where at least one residential dwelling already exists or is proposed.
This Chapter shall not apply to accessory dwelling units and junior accessory
dwellings in compliance with
Chapter 10.52 (Accessory Dwelling Unit) and
Chapter 10.54 (Junior Accessory Dwelling Units). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.92.030: REVIEW AUTHORITY:
The Community Development Director is responsible for implementation of this
Chapter through the processing of a setback exchange application. The Director
is also responsible for evaluation, recommendation, and future revision of this
Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.92.040: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Front yards on residentially zoned parcels may be less than the
required setback, provided that a written request and site plan are submitted.
   B.   The reduction of any side yard or rear yard shall be prohibited.
   C.   The modified front yard setback shall not be less than the required
interior side yard for the zone district where the site is located.
   D.   Applicant shall designate an area elsewhere on the parcel where no
existing or proposed structures, outdoor pools, or hot tubs shall be located or
constructed.
   E.   A setback exchange, if granted, shall run with the land and shall
continue to be valid upon a change of ownership. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.92.050: PROCESSING, FILING, AND REVIEW:
   A.   A setback exchange application shall be processed independently of or
concurrently with an entitlement application and/or Building Permit.
   B.   A complete application for a setback exchange shall include the
following:
      1.   Complete application forms provided by the Community Development
Department.
      2.   A dimensioned site plan illustrating the location of all structures
on the subject property, the proposed encroachment into the required front or
rear yard, and the designated replacement area.
      3.   Any designated replacement area shall be located outside of required
setbacks and shall have minimum dimensions of eight feet (8') by eight feet
(8') and shall be situated so as to be accessible and useable by the occupant
of the premises.
      4.   Required application fee in accordance with the City's Master Fee
Schedule. The required application fee shall be paid at time of application
submittal or shall be paid at time of building permit issuance.
   C.   Submittal of a complete entitlement application and/or Building Permit
may cause a review of planning and Building Permit activity for the subject
property to ensure compliance with the Reedley Municipal Code. An identified
planning/building or code violation may require the property owner to make
necessary corrections prior to the issuance of an entitlement. (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
10.92.060: FINDINGS:
The Community Development Director shall find that the granting of the setback
exchange will not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious
to property and improvements in the area in which the property is located and
will not be in contradiction of the objectives of this Zoning Code. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.94
MINOR DEVIATION
SECTION:
10.94.010: Purpose
10.94.020: Review Authority
10.94.030: Application Filing
10.94.040: Review Procedures
10.94.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the standards established in this Chapter is to promote economic
development by creating flexibility in existing property development standards
which would otherwise preclude adaptive reuse of existing structures and
promote quality, clarity, and consistency in applying those standards,
requirements, guidelines, processing, and approval of such entitlement
applications. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.94.020: REVIEW AUTHORITY:
The Community Development Director is responsible for implementation of this
Chapter through the processing of Minor Deviation application request. The
Director is also responsible for evaluation, recommendation, and future
revision of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.94.030: APPLICATION FILING:
A complete application for a Minor Deviation shall include the following.
   A.   Complete application;
   B.   Site plan drawing;
   C.   Provide a written and detailed explanation of site constraints which
identify the property development standard and justify the granting of the
Minor Deviation; and
   D.   Submit the required application fee in accordance with the current
Master Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.94.040: REVIEW PROCEDURES:
The following provisions and procedure shall apply to a request for a
modification to an existing structure and/or property development standard of
the property's zone district classification as established in this Title.
   A.   Applicants requesting a Minor Deviation shall submit a complete
application to the Community Development Director.
   B.   Applicants requesting a Minor Deviation may have that request processed
independently of or concurrently with an entitlement application and/or
Building Permit.
   C.   A Minor Deviation may be approved by the Community Development
Director, subject to such conditions as may be imposed, without any notice or
appeal, if it is found that to do so would not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to property and improvements in the area in which the
property is located.
   D.   The Community Development Director may modify by up to ten percent
(10%) any property development standard noted in this Title, for any zone
district, except for side yard setbacks.
   E.   Submittal of an application (i.e., Site Plan Review, Conditional Use
Permit, Variance) and/or Building Permit may cause a review of all permit
activity for the subject property to ensure compliance with the Zoning Code. An
identified violation of the Zoning Code shall require the property owner to
make necessary correction before the approval of the Minor Deviation
application. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.96
SITE PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
10.96.010: Purpose
10.96.020: Applicability
10.96.030: Application Filing
10.96.040: Determination Of Completeness
10.96.050: Application Processing
10.96.060: Conditions Of Approval
10.96.070: Findings And Decision
10.96.080: Street Dedications And Improvements
10.96.090: Building Permit
10.96.100: Lapse Of Site Plan Approval
10.96.110: Renewal Of Site Plan Approval
10.96.120: Appeals
10.96.130: Violation And Revocation
10.96.140: Approval To Run With The Land
10.96.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide standards and procedures for the
review of applicable development and land use applications to enable the
Community Development Director to find a proposed development in compliance
with the General Plan, Municipal Code, policies, and improvement standards of
the City. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Site plan review provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the
following:
      1.   All land uses within the RCO, UR, RM, PO, CC, CS, ML and MH zoning
districts; and
      2.   Any land use subject to architectural design review by the
provisions of
Chapter 10.98 (Architectural Design Review) of this Title.
   B.   Site plan review provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the
following, as determined by the Community Development Director:
      1.   Single-unit dwellings;
      2.   Land uses related to single-unit dwellings; and
      3.   Accessory structures in all zoning districts. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.96.030: APPLICATION FILING:
A complete application shall be accompanied by a written narrative, operational
statement, site plans, elevations, three-dimensional renderings, and other
related materials necessary to show that the proposed development, alteration,
or use of the site complies with all applicable provisions of this Title. The
Community Development Director may require attachments of other written or
graphic information, including, but not limited to, statements, numeric data,
floor plans, and building cross sections, as a record of the proposal's
conformity with the applicable regulations of this Title. The application shall
be accompanied by a fee in compliance with the City's Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.040: DETERMINATION OF COMPLETENESS:
   A.   The application for site plan review shall be deemed complete and
accepted for processing only when it conforms to all the requirements of
Section
10.96.030 (Application Filing) of this Title. Within thirty (30) calendar days
(excluding City-recognized holidays) after the application is submitted, the
Community Development Director or their designee shall determine whether the
application, including all submitted materials, is complete and shall notify
the applicant of the determination in writing, including (if appropriate) a
description of why the application is incomplete and any additional information
that may be required. Upon receipt of any resubmittal of the application, a new
thirty (30)-day review period shall begin.
   B.   If the Director determines they cannot approve the site plan without
the granting of a Variance or Conditional Use Permit, or the enactment of an
amendment to this Title, The Director shall inform the applicant in writing and
shall not act on the application until the proper application or an amendment
has been submitted in compliance with this Title.
   C.   If the Community Development Director determines that the application,
including the submitted materials, is not complete, the applicant may appeal
such determination to the Planning Commission. The appeal shall be filed in
writing with the director within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City
recognized holidays) after notice of the Director's determination. The Planning
Commission shall hear the appeal and give a final written determination on the
appeal within sixty (60) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays)
after the Director's receipt of the applicant's appeal. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.96.050: APPLICATION PROCESSING:
   A.   Within forty-five (45) calendar days (excluding City recognized
holidays) following the date of a deemed complete application status, the
Community Development Director shall approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the site plan. In approving the site plan, the Director shall make
the findings established in Section
10.96.070 (Findings) of this Chapter. The action of the Director shall be final
unless appealed in compliance with Section
10.96.120 (Appeals) of this Chapter.
   B.   The approved site plan, with any conditions shown thereon or attached
thereto, shall be signed by the Community Development Director, or their
designee, and a copy shall be provided electronically or through the United
States Postal Service to the applicant.
   C.   Revisions by the applicant to an approved site plan shall be
resubmitted to the Community Development Director in compliance with Section
10.96.030 (Application Filing). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.060: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
The Community Development Director shall require conditions of approval
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Such
conditions may include consideration of the following:
   A.   Special setbacks, spaces, and buffers.
   B.   Fences and walls.
   C.   Surfacing of parking areas and provisions for surface water drainage
subject to City specifications.
   D.   Street dedications and improvements, in compliance with Section
10.96.080 (Street Dedications and Improvements) of this Chapter, including
service roads or alleys.
   E.   Regulation of points of vehicular ingress and egress.
   F.   Regulation of signs, in compliance with the standards established in
Chapter 10.40 (Sign Regulations) of this Title.
   G.   Requiring maintenance of the grounds.
   H.   Requiring landscaping and maintenance thereof.
   I.   Regulation of noise, vibration, odors, and other similar
characteristics.
   J.   Measures necessary to eliminate or to effect mitigation to acceptable
levels of adverse environmental impacts.
   K.   Regulation of time for certain land uses and activities to be conducted
on the site.
   L.   Time period within which the proposed land use or activity shall be
developed and/or take place.
   M.   A bond, deposit of money, recorded lien secured by deed of trust or
letter of credit for the completion of street improvements and other facilities
or for the removal of such use within a specified period of time, to assure
conformance with the intent and purposes established in this Title. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.070: FINDINGS AND DECISION:
   A.   In acting on a proposed site plan, the Community Development Director
shall make the following findings:
      1.   The site plan complies with all applicable provisions of this Title;
      2.   The site plan complies with the current and active General Plan and/
or applicable Specific Plan;
      3.   The following are so arranged that traffic congestion is avoided and
pedestrian and vehicular safety and welfare are protected and there will not be
an adverse effect on surrounding property:
         a.   Facilities and improvements.
         b.   Vehicular ingress, egress, and internal circulation.
         c.   Setbacks.
         d.   Height of structures.
         e.   Location of services.
         f.   Walls.
         g.   Landscaping.
         h.   Drainage of site;
      4.   Proposed lighting is so arranged as to deflect the light away from
adjoining properties;
      5.   Proposed signs shall comply with all applicable provisions of
Chapter 10.40 (Sign Regulations) of this Title;
      6.   Approval of the project will be consistent with established
legislative policies related to traffic safety, street dedications, street
improvements, and environmental quality; and
      7.   The project will not be detrimental to public health, safety, and
welfare.
   B.   A Site Plan Review shall become effective on the eleventh calendar day
(excluding City-recognized holidays) following the date the Site Plan Review
was acted upon by the Director, unless appealed in compliance with Section
10.96.120 (Appeals) of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.080: STREET DEDICATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
Because of changes which may occur due to drainage conditions, utility service
requirements, or vehicular traffic generated by facilities requiring a Site
Plan Review, the following dedications and improvements may be deemed necessary
and may be required as a condition or conditions to the approval of any site
plan:
   A.   Development Bordering or Traversed by an Existing Street. If the
development abuts or is traversed by existing approved and applicable public
right(s)-of-way, the applicant may be required to:
      1.   Dedicate all necessary rights-of-way to widen an abutting local or
collector street to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of the ultimate width
established by the City as the standard for such local or collector street, or
the full extent required for a frontage road.
      2.   Dedicate all necessary rights-of-way to widen a traversing local or
collector street to its ultimate width established by the City as the standard
for such local or collector street.
      3.   Dedicate all necessary rights-of-way to widen an abutting or
traversing arterial or major arterial street to the standards of width
established by the City as the standard for such street.
      4.   Set back all facilities the required distance from ultimate property
lines along a major arterial street as shown on any master, official or precise
plan of streets and highways or by the General Plan.
      5.   Install curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street signs, streetlights, and
street trees along one side of an abutting, or along both sides of, a
traversing local, collector, arterial, or major arterial street.
      6.   Install utilities and drainage facilities to the full extent of the
service requirements generated by the development.
      7.   Grade and improve abutting local or collector streets from curb to
centerline of the ultimate right of way.
      8.   Grade and improve traversing local or collector streets from curb to
curb.
      9.   Grade and improve the parking lane and one (1) traffic lane adjacent
to the development, along an abutting arterial or major arterial street.
      10.   Grade and improve both parking lanes and the two (2) outside
traffic lanes of a traversing arterial or major arterial street.
   B.   Exception. Except as provided in Subsections C and D of this Section,
all new roads shall be dedicated and improved in accordance with the
requirements of Subsection A of this Section.
   C.   Where a frontage road is already provided and improved along a major
arterial, arterial, collector, or local street in accordance with City
standards, the curb, gutter, sidewalk, street sign, street lighting, grading,
and paving requirements of Paragraphs A.5 and Paragraph A.10 of this Section
pertaining to the arterial street shall not be required unless any part of the
street is altered or reconstructed.
   D.   Where total access to or from an abutting or traversing major arterial
street is prohibited as a condition of approval, the curb, gutter, sidewalks,
street sign, streetlight, grading, and paving requirements of Paragraph A.5 and
Paragraph A.10 of this Section pertaining to major arterial streets shall not
be required.
   E.   All improvements shall be to City standards existing at the time the
site plan is approved and shall be installed at the time of the proposed
development. Where it is determined by the City that it is impractical to put
in any or all improvements at the time of the proposed development, an
agreement to make such improvements may be accepted in lieu thereof. The
applicant shall enter into said agreement with the City for the provision of
improvements before a Building Permit may be issued, at which time there shall
be money deposited with or in favor of the City, or a letter of credit or
performance bond posted with the City, in an amount equal to one hundred
percent (100%) of the estimated cost of improvements, as estimated by the City
Engineer to guarantee the making of such improvements.
   F.   Street dedications and improvements required by this Section shall be
considered in relationship to the traffic, utility, and other demands generated
by the proposed development and/or land use. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.090: BUILDING PERMIT:
Before a Building Permit is issued for any structure or sign proposed as part
of an approved site plan, the Community Development Director shall determine
that the proposed structure(s) location, facilities, and improvements are in
substantial conformance with the approved site plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.100: LAPSE OF SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
A site plan approval shall lapse and shall become void twenty-four (24) months
following the date on which approval by the Community Development Director,
Planning Commission, or City Council became effective unless, prior to the
expiration of twenty-four (24) months, a Building Permit is issued by the
Building Division and construction is commenced and diligently pursued toward
completion of the site or structures which were the subject of the site plan.
Approval may be extended for an additional period or periods of twelve (12)
months upon written application to the Director before expiration of the first
approval. The Director shall have the authority to grant or deny an extension
request. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.110: RENEWAL OF SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
A site plan approval may be renewed for an additional twelve (12) months,
provided that the following requirements are met:
   A.   Prior to the expiration of the time period granted, an application for
renewal of the site plan approval is filed with the Community Development
Director.
   B.   The Community Development Director shall grant or deny an application
for renewal of a site plan approval. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.120: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal to Planning Commission. Site plan review decisions shall be
appealed in compliance with the following:
      1.   Within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays)
following the date of a decision by the Community Development Director, the
decision may be appealed in writing to the Planning Commission by the applicant
or any other interested party. An appeal shall be filed with the Community
Development Department and accompanied by the filing fee determined by the
current Master Fee Schedule. The appeal shall state specifically wherein it is
claimed that there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Community
Development Director or wherein the decision is not supported by the evidence
in the record.
      2.   The Community Development Director shall give notice to the
applicant and to the appellant (if the applicant is not the appellant) of the
time the appeal will be considered by the Planning Commission.
      3.   Notice of Planning Commission Public Hearing. Notice of the public
hearing shall be given, at minimum, ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-
recognized holidays) prior to the date of the hearing in accordance with the
requirements of Government Code sections 65905 and 65091.
      4.   The Planning Commission shall hear the appeal at its next regular
meeting within forty-five (45) calendar days (excluding City-recognized
holidays) after the filing of the appeal. The Commission may affirm, modify, or
reverse a decision of the Community Development Director based on the record
and additional evidence submitted by the applicant or other interested party.
If the decision is modified or reversed, the Commission shall make the
applicable findings prerequisite to the approval of a site plan as provided in
Section
10.96.070 (Findings) of this Chapter. The decision of the Commission shall be
final unless appealed to the City Council in compliance with Subsection B
(Appeal to City Council), below.
   B.   Appeal to City Council. A decision by the Planning Commission shall be
appealed to the City Council in compliance with the following:
      1.   Within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays)
following the date of a decision of the Planning Commission on a site plan
application, the decision may be appealed to the City Council by the applicant
or any other interested party. An appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk and
accompanied by the filing fee determined by the current Master Fee Schedule.
The appeal shall specifically state wherein it is claimed that there was an
error or abuse of discretion by the Commission or where its decision is not
supported by the evidence in the record.
      2.   The Community Development Director shall transmit to the City Clerk
the drawings of the site plan and all other information filed therewith, the
findings of the Planning Commission and its decision on the application for
review and action.
      3.   The City Clerk or their designee shall give notice to the applicant
and to the appellant (if the applicant is not the appellant) of the time when
the appeal will be considered by the City Council.
      4.   Notice of City Council Public Hearing. Notice of the public hearing
shall be given, at minimum, ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized
holidays) prior to the date of the hearing in accordance with the requirements
of Government Code sections 65905 and 65091.
      5.   The City Council shall hear the appeal of its next regular meeting
within forty-five (45) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) after
the filing date of the appeal. The City Council may affirm, reverse, or modify
a decision of the Planning Commission based on the record and additional
evidence submitted by the applicant or other interested party. If the decision
is modified or reversed, the City Council shall make the applicable findings
prerequisite to the approval of a site plan as provided in Section
10.96.070 (Findings) of this Chapter.
      6.   A site plan which has been the subject of an appeal to the City
Council shall become effective immediately following the date on which the site
plan is affirmed or modified by the City Council. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.130: VIOLATION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Upon violation of any applicable provisions of this Chapter, or, if
granted subject to a condition or conditions, upon failure to comply with the
condition(s), a site plan approval shall be suspended.
   B.   Notice of such suspension and of the City's intent to revoke the
approved site plan shall be sent by the Community Development Director
immediately to the owner of the subject premises and to the person or persons
responsible for noncompliance as determined by the Director.
   C.   Within forty-five (45) calendar days (excluding City-recognized
holidays) of the suspension, after notice to the owner and to those deemed
responsible for noncompliance, the Community Development Director shall
consider the suspension and revocation at a public hearing. If not satisfied
that the regulation, general provision, or condition(s) are being complied
with, the Director shall revoke the approved site plan or take such action as
may be necessary to ensure compliance with the regulation, general provision,
or condition(s) within five (5) calendar days (excluding City-recognized
holidays) after the public hearing.
   D.   A decision of the Community Development Director in compliance with
this Chapter shall become final on the eleventh calendar day (excluding City-
recognized holidays) following the Director's action unless an Appeal is filed
with the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.96.140: APPROVAL TO RUN WITH THE LAND:
A site plan approved pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall run with
the land and shall continue to be valid upon a change of ownership of the site
which was the subject of the site plan. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.98
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN REVIEW - RESERVED
   [Reserved by Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024.]
CHAPTER 10.100
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
SECTION:
10.100.010: Purpose
10.100.020: Review Authority
10.100.030: Application Filing
10.100.040: Noticing And Public Hearing Procedures
10.100.050: Findings And Decision
10.100.060: Conditions Of Approval
10.100.070: Building Permit
10.100.080: Lapse Of Conditional Use Permit And Renewals
10.100.090: Time Limit For Development
10.100.100: Suspension And Revocation
10.100.110: New Application
10.100.120: Conditional Use Permit To Run With The Land
10.100.130: Minor Revisions
10.100.140: Site Plan Review
10.100.150: Appeals And Action Of City Council
10.100.010: PURPOSE:
In certain zoning districts, some land uses are allowed with the approval of a
Conditional Use Permit. The unusual characteristics of conditional land uses
require special consideration with respect to the objectives of this Title and
their effects on surrounding properties. To achieve these purposes and provide
additional flexibility of the land use regulations established in this Title,
the Planning Commission is empowered to grant and deny applications for
Conditional Use Permits and impose reasonable conditions to the approval of a
Conditional Use Permit, subject to appeal of the Commission's decisions to the
City Council. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.020: REVIEW AUTHORITY:
The Planning Commission may approve a Conditional Use Permit for a conditional
land use established in Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development
Standards). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.030: APPLICATION FILING:
A complete application for a Conditional Use Permit shall be submitted to the
Community Development Department and shall be accompanied by a written
narrative, operational statement, site plans, elevations, three-dimensional
renderings, and other related materials necessary to show that the proposed
development, alteration, or use of the site complies with all applicable
provisions of this Title. The Community Development Director may require
attachments of other written or graphic information, including, but not limited
to, statements, numeric data, floor plans, and building cross sections, as a
record of the proposal's conformity with the applicable regulations of this
Title. The application shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with the
City's Master Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.040: NOTICING AND PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Public Hearing and Notice. Notice of public hearing shall comply with
the following:
      1.   Following acceptance of a Conditional Use Permit application as
complete for filing pursuant to Government Code section 65943, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing on said application.
      2.   Notice of the public hearing shall be given, at minimum, ten (10)
calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) prior to the date of the
hearing in accordance with the requirements of Government Code sections 65905
and 65091.
   B.   Notice. The Community Development Department shall give written notice
to the applicant of the time when the application will be considered by the
Planning Commission.
   C.   Public Hearing; Procedure. At the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall review the application and the statement and drawings
submitted therewith and shall receive pertinent evidence and testimony
concerning the proposed use and the proposed conditions under which it would be
operated or maintained. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.050: FINDINGS AND DECISION:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall act on the application within sixty (60)
calendar days (excluding-City-recognized holidays) following the date of a
deemed complete application status or following the closing of the public
hearing unless a longer time is allowed under the provisions of Government Code
sections 65950-65951 and 65957-65957.1. This sixty (60)-calender day (excluding
City-recognized holidays) timeline shall not apply if the Conditional Use
Permit application is submitted and processed with additional entitlement
applications. The Commission may approve, or conditionally approve, an
application for a Conditional Use Permit if the Commission makes the following
findings:
      1.   That there are circumstances or conditions applicable to the land,
structure, or use which makes the granting of a Conditional Use Permit
necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right;
      2.   That the proposed use will comply with policies, goals, and
objectives of the General Plan, and, if applicable, a Specific Plan;
      3.   That the proposed location of the conditional use complies with the
objectives of this Title and the purposes of the zone district in which the
site is located; and
      4.   That the proposed use will comply with each of the applicable
provisions of this Title.
   B.   A Conditional Use Permit may be granted subject to such conditions as
the Planning Commission may prescribe. The Commission may deny an application
for a Conditional Use Permit if it is unable to make one or more of the
findings required by this Title. A Conditional Use Permit may not grant
Variances to the regulations established by this Title for which Variance
procedures are prescribed by
Chapter 10.102 (Variances) of this Article. A Conditional Use Permit may grant
Planned Unit Developments in accordance with
Chapter 10.20 (Planned Unit Developments) of this Title.
   C.   A Conditional Use Permit shall become final on the eleventh calendar
day (excluding City-recognized holidays) following the date it is granted by
resolution of the Planning Commission unless an appeal has been filed with the
City Council. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.060: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
In approving a Conditional Use Permit, the Planning Commission shall, in its
resolution or attached to its resolution, state those conditions, dedications,
or requirements of approval reasonably necessary to the use of the proposal to
protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.100.070: BUILDING PERMIT:
Before a Building Permit shall be issued for any building or structure proposed
as part of the approved Conditional Use Permit application, the Community
Development Director shall determine that the proposed structure(s) location,
facilities, and improvements are in substantial conformance with the site plan
and conditions approved by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.080: LAPSE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND RENEWALS:
   A.   A Conditional Use Permit shall lapse and become void thirty-six (36)
months following the date on which the Conditional Use Permit became effective,
unless one of the following occurs:
      1.   Prior to the expiration of thirty-six (36) months, a Building Permit
is issued by the Building Official and construction is commenced and diligently
pursued toward completion on the site which was the subject of the Conditional
Use Permit application.
      2.   Prior to the expiration of thirty-six (36) months, the proposed
operation is commenced and diligently pursued toward completion on the site
which was the subject of the Conditional Use Permit application.
   B.   Renewals. A Conditional Use Permit may be renewed for an additional
twelve (12) months, provided that the following requirements are met:
      1.   Prior to the expiration of the time period granted, an application
for renewal of the Conditional Use Permit is filed with the Community
Development Director.
      2.   The Community Development Director shall grant or deny an
application for renewal of a Conditional Use Permit. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.090: TIME LIMIT FOR DEVELOPMENT:
The Community Development Director may establish a greater time limit than that
provided by Section
10.100.080 (Lapse of Conditional Use Permit and Renewals) within which the
subject property and land use or any stage or phase thereof shall be commenced
and completed. The time limits set by the Director shall be based on the size,
nature, and complexity of the proposed development. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.100: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Upon violation of any applicable provisions of this Chapter, or, if
granted subject to a condition or conditions, upon failure to comply with the
condition(s), a Conditional Use Permit shall be suspended.
   B.   Notice of such suspension and of the City's intent to revoke the
Conditional Use Permit shall be sent by the Community Development Director
immediately to the owner of the subject premises and to the person or persons
responsible for noncompliance as determined by the Community Development
Director.
   C.   Within forty-five (45) calendar days (excluding City-recognized
holidays) of the suspension, after notice to the owner and to those deemed
responsible for noncompliance, the Planning Commission shall consider the
suspension and revocation at a public hearing. If not satisfied that the
regulation, general provision, or condition(s) are being complied with, the
Commission may revoke the Conditional Use Permit or take such action as may be
necessary to ensure compliance with the regulation, general provision, or
condition(s) within five (5) calendar days after the public hearing.
   D.   The Planning Commission public hearing regarding the suspension and/or
revocation shall be properly noticed in compliance with Section
10.100.040 (Noticing and Public Hearing Procedures) of this Chapter.
   E.   A decision of the Planning Commission pursuant to this Section shall
become final on the eleventh calendar day (excluding City-recognized holidays)
following the date it is granted by resolution of the Commission unless an
Appeal has been filed with the City Council. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.110: NEW APPLICATION:
Following the denial or the revocation of a Conditional Use Permit, no
application for a Conditional Use Permit for the same or substantially the same
conditional use on the same or substantially the same site shall be filed
within six (6) months from the date of denial or revocation of the Conditional
Use Permit. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.120: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT TO RUN WITH THE LAND:
A Conditional Use Permit approved in compliance with this Chapter shall run
with the land and shall continue to be valid upon a change in owner of the
business and or change of ownership of the site or structure which was the
subject of the Conditional Use Permit application. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.130: MINOR REVISIONS:
A Conditional Use Permit may be revised, provided that such revisions are
minor, as determined by the Community Development Director. Application for
minor revisions shall be made in writing to the Community Development
Department. The Director may approve such revisions without public hearing,
provided that the Director can determine that the revisions will not
substantially change the intensity or character of the use as previously
approved by the Planning Commission. The Director's decision may be appealable
to the Planning Commission within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-
recognized holidays) after a decision is rendered. A decision of the Community
Development Director shall become final on the eleventh calendar day (excluding
City-recognized holidays) following the Director's action unless an Appeal is
filed with the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.100.140 SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Approval of a Conditional Use Permit under the provisions of this Chapter shall
comply with Chapter 10.96 (Site Plan Review) of this Article. (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
10.100.150: APPEALS AND ACTION OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Appeal to City Council. A decision made by the Planning Commission
shall be appealed in compliance with the following:
      1.   Within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays)
following the date of a decision of the Planning Commission on a Conditional
Use Permit, the decision may be appealed to the City Council by the applicant,
the Mayor, a member of the Council, or any other interested party. An appeal
shall be in writing and must be timely filed with the City Clerk and accompany
the filing fee in compliance with the City's current Master Fee Schedule. The
appeal shall state specifically wherein it is claimed that there was an error
or abuse of discretion by the Commission or wherein its decision is not
supported by the evidence in the record. Late appeals shall not be accepted by
the City Clerk.
      2.   An appeal filed by a member of the City Council shall not be subject
to said fee.
      3.   The City Clerk or their designee shall give notice of the public
hearing in the manner described in Section
10.100.040 (Noticing and Public Hearing Procedures) of this Chapter.
   B.   Action of City Council. City Council action shall comply with the
following.
      1.   The City Council shall hear the appeal at its next regular meeting
within forty-five (45) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays),
after the filing of the appeal. The Council may affirm, reverse, or modify a
decision of the Planning Commission on a Conditional Use Permit. In the event
of a revocation, denial, or modification of a Conditional Use Permit, the
Council shall, based on the record transmitted and any additional evidence
submitted, make the findings established in this Chapter, when applicable.
      2.   A decision on a Conditional Use Permit which has been the subject of
an appeal to the City Council shall become final immediately on the date on
which the decision is made by the Council. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.102
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10.102.010: Purpose
10.102.020: Review Authority
10.102.030: Application Filing
10.102.040: Noticing And Public Hearing Procedures
10.102.050: Findings And Decision
10.102.060: Appeals And Action Of City Council
10.102.070: Lapse Of Variance
10.102.080: Revocation
10.102.090: New Application
10.102.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish a procedure when the strict
application of this Title deprives such property of privileges enjoyed by other
properties in the vicinity under identical zoning classification due to special
circumstances of the property, including size, shape, topography, location, or
surroundings. The power to grant Variances does not extend to use regulations,
because the flexibility necessary to avoid results consistent with the
objectives of this Title is provided by the conditional use, planned unit
development, and amendment provisions of this title. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.102.020: REVIEW AUTHORITY:
The Planning Commission is responsible for reviewing and granting Variances.
The Planning Commission may approve, approve with conditions, or deny Variances
to the standards established in this Title pertaining to fences and walls
(i.e., height, type, material, location), parcel areas, width, depth, coverage,
front yard, rear yard, side yards, height of structures, distances between
structures, off street parking facilities, and off-street loading facilities.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.102.030: APPLICATION FILING:
A complete application for a Variance shall be submitted to the Community
Development Department and shall include the following information:
   A.   Name and address of applicant.
   B.   Statement that the applicant is the owner of the property or is the
authorized agent of the owner or the plaintiff in an action of eminent domain
to acquire the property involved.
   C.   Address or description of property.
   D.   Statement of the precise nature of the Variance requested and why
approval is necessary under the purposes described in Section
10.102.010 (Purpose) of this Chapter, together with any other information
pertinent to the findings prerequisite to the granting of a Variance prescribed
in Section
10.102.050 (Findings and Decision) of this Chapter. This information shall be
included in a City-provided supplemental questionnaire which shall be submitted
along with a complete application.
   E.   The application shall be accompanied by a drawing of the site and any
adjacent property affected, showing all existing and proposed locations of
streets, property lines, uses, structures, driveways, pedestrian walks, off
street parking and loading facilities, and landscaped areas.
   F.   The application shall be accompanied by a fee set by resolution in the
Master Fee Schedule sufficient to cover the cost of handling the application as
established in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.102.040: NOTICING AND PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES:
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the
provisions of Section
10.100.040 (Noticing and Public Hearing Procedures). At a public hearing, the
Commission shall review the application and the statements and drawings
submitted therewith and shall receive pertinent evidence concerning the
Variance, particularly with respect to the findings prescribed in Subsection
10.102.050 of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.102.050: FINDINGS AND DECISION:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall act on the application within sixty (60)
calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) following the date of a
deemed complete application status or within sixty (60) calendar days
(excluding City-recognized holidays) after the close of a public hearing, if
any.
   B.   The Planning Commission may grant a Variance to regulations prescribed
by this Title, as the Variance was applied for or in modified form, if, based
on the application, investigation and evidence submitted, the Commission makes
the following findings:
      1.   There are special circumstances or conditions applicable to the
property involved, such that strict or literal interpretation and enforcement
of the specified regulation would deprive the applicant of privileges enjoyed
by the owners of other properties classified in the same zoning district.
      2.   The granting of the Variance will not constitute a grant of special
privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties classified in
the vicinity and in the same zoning district.
      3.   The granting of the Variance will not create a safety hazard or any
other condition inconsistent with the objectives of this Title.
   C.   The Planning Commission shall grant a Variance to a regulation
prescribed by this Title, with respect to off street parking facilities or off-
street loading facilities as the Variance was applied for or in modified form,
if, based on the application, investigation and the evidence submitted, the
commission makes the findings prescribed in Paragraph B and the following
additional findings:
      1.   Neither present nor anticipated future traffic volumes generated by
the parcel's land use or the uses of parcels in the vicinity reasonably require
strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified regulation.
      2.   The granting of the Variance will not result in the parking or
loading of vehicles on public streets in such a manner as to interfere with the
free flow of traffic on the streets.
   D.   In approving a Variance, the Planning Commission shall add such
conditions of approval as necessary to ensure the Variance adjustment shall not
grant special privilege.
   E.   A Variance may be revocable, granted for a limited time period, or
granted subject to such condition(s) as the authority (Planning Commission or
City Council) that rendered a final decision of the Variance may prescribe.
   F.   A Variance shall become effective ten (10) calendar days (excluding
City-recognized holidays) following the date the Variance was granted unless an
appeal has been filed with the City Council. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.102.060: APPEALS AND ACTION OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Appeal to City Council. A decision made by the Planning Commission
shall be appealed in compliance with the following:
      1.   Within ten (10) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays)
following the date of a decision of the Planning Commission on a Variance
application, the decision may be appealed to the City Council by the applicant
or any other interested party. A written appeal shall be filed with the City
Clerk. The appeal shall state specifically wherein it is claimed that there was
an error or abuse of discretion by the Commission or wherein its decision is
not supported by the evidence in the record.
      2.   The appeal letter shall be accompanied by a fee established in the
City of Reedley Master Fee Schedule. The City of Reedley shall be made exempt
from the filing fee requirement.
      3.   The City Clerk or their designee shall give notice to the applicant
and to the appellant (if the applicant is not the appellant) and may give
notice to any other interested party at the time when the appeal will be
considered by the City Council.
      4.   Notice of the public hearing shall be given, at minimum, ten (10)
calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) prior to the date of the
hearing in accordance with the requirements of Government Code sections 65905
and 65091.
      5.   The Community Development Director shall transmit to the City Clerk
the Variance application and all other information filed therewith, the
findings of the Planning Commission and their decision on the application for
review and action.
   B.   Action of City Council. The action by City Council shall comply with
the following:
      1.   The City Council shall hear the appeal within forty-five (45)
calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays) after the filing of the
appeal. The Council may affirm, reverse, or modify a decision of the Planning
Commission on a Variance application. If a decision denying a Variance is
reversed or a decision granting a Variance is modified, the Council shall,
based on the record transmitted and such additional evidence as may be
submitted, make the findings prerequisite to the granting of a Variance, when
applicable.
      2.   A Variance which has been the subject of an appeal to the City
Council shall become effective immediately following the date on which the
Variance is granted by the Council. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.102.070: LAPSE OF VARIANCE:
A Variance shall lapse and become void three (3) years following the date on
which the Variance becomes effective unless a condition of the Variance allows
for a greater time, or unless prior to the expiration of thirty-six (36)
months, a Building Permit is issued by the Building Official and construction
is commenced and diligently pursued toward completion on the site which was the
subject of the Variance application. A Variance may be renewed for an
additional twelve (12) months, provided that prior to the expiration date, an
application for renewal of the Variance is made to the Community Development
Director. The Director may grant or deny an application for renewal of a
Variance. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.102.080: REVOCATION:
The revocation of a Variance approval shall be governed by the provision of
Section
10.100.100 of this Article. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.102.090: NEW APPLICATION:
Following the denial of a Variance application or the revocation of a Variance,
no application for the same or substantially the same Variance on the same or
substantially the same parcel shall be filed within twelve (12) months of the
date of denial of the Variance application or revocation of the Variance. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.104
SPECIFIC PLANS
SECTION:
10.104.010: Purpose
10.104.020: Applicability
10.104.030: Procedure
10.104.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide a guide for the orderly physical
growth and development of the City, to implement the General Plan, and to
promote and protect public health, safety, and general welfare, on an area-
specific basis. The purpose of a Specific Plan is to systematically implement
the general plan for all or part of the area covered by the General Plan. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.104.020: APPLICABILITY:
Where specific conditions of the Specific Plan are more restrictive than the
Zoning Ordinance development standards, the conditions of the Specific Plan
shall apply. Where a standard is not addressed in the Specific Plan, the Zoning
Ordinance shall apply. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.104.030: PROCEDURE:
The procedure for adoption, amendment, and revocation of a Specific Plan shall
be established in accordance with the California Government Code. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.106
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
SECTION:
10.106.010: Purpose
10.106.020: Applicability And CEQA References
10.106.030: Review For Exemption
10.106.040: Environmental Review Application
10.106.050: Preparation Of An Initial Study
10.106.060: Determination Of Environmental Significance
10.106.070: Review Authority For The CEQA Finding
10.106.080: Appeals
10.106.010: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to comply with Public Resources Code,
Section 21082 that mandates local agencies to establish criteria and procedures
for the evaluation of projects and the preparation of environmental impact
reports, and negative declarations. As part of the review to determine whether
an application for a development project is complete, the Community Development
Director shall conduct a preliminary assessment of potential environmental
issues.
   B.   The purpose of this review is to help the City decide if the project is
subject to environmental review and, if so, which issues may require analysis.
An application subject to environmental review pursuant to the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) shall not be considered complete until the
applicant has submitted all studies and other documentation the Community
Development Director has deemed necessary to make an environmental
determination. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.106.020: APPLICABILITY AND CEQA REFERENCES:
   A.   Applicability. The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), Public
Resources Code Section 21000 et seq., applies to development projects as may be
determined by the City.
   B.   CEQA References. Any reference to "CEQA," includes Public Resources
Code 21000 et. seq. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.106.030: REVIEW FOR EXEMPTION:
If the Director determines that the application is subject to review under
CEQA, within thirty (30) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays)
after determining that the application is complete, the Community Development
Director shall determine if the project is exempt from environmental review in
compliance with to State law, CEQA Guidelines, and all applicable City
environmental guidelines adopted in compliance with CEQA.
   A.   If the Community Development Director has determined that a project is
exempt from environmental review under CEQA, such determination shall be
supported with necessary written findings and substantial evidence and included
in any public notice required for the project. The notice shall include a
citation to the applicable statute or CEQA Guideline section under which it is
found to be exempt.
   B.   Following approval of a project that is exempt from CEQA review, the
Director or the applicant may file a Notice of Exemption with the Fresno County
Clerk. The applicant for a project shall be responsible for any fees required
to file such notice. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.106.040: ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW APPLICATION:
If the proposed project is not exempt from environmental review, the applicant
shall submit an application for environmental review. After receiving an
environmental review application and required studies, the Community
Development Director shall determine whether to require preparation of an
Environmental Impact Report (EIR), Negative Declaration or Mitigated Negative
Declaration or whether the project is within the scope of a Master EIR, or
other appropriate document authorized by CEQA. To make this determination, the
Director shall prepare or cause the preparation of an Initial Study at the
applicant's expense. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.106.050: PREPARATION OF AN INITIAL STUDY:
   A.   The Initial Study shall be prepared in compliance with State law, CEQA
Guidelines and any environmental guidelines that the City has adopted in
compliance with CEQA.
   B.   Following completion of the Initial Study, the Community Development
Director shall notify the applicant in writing of changes to the project deemed
necessary to reduce or avoid any significant effects or revise the project to
reduce its impacts to less than significant identified in the Initial Study;
   C.   Within thirty (30) calendar days (excluding City-recognized holidays)
following the date of the notification described above, the applicant shall
provide written notification to the Director indicating that the proposed
modifications are acceptable or shall propose alternative measures that will
achieve the same result. If the applicant does not agree to revise the project,
an EIR shall be prepared. Alternatively, if the applicant does not respond to
letter the application shall be terminated by the City; or
   D.   If an EIR is being prepared, an Initial Study is not mandatory as
outlined by CEQA. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.106.060: DETERMINATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL SIGNIFICANCE:
Based on the Initial Study, the Community Development Director will make one of
the following findings and prepare the appropriate environmental documentation
in compliance with State law, CEQA Guidelines and any environmental guidelines
that the City has adopted in compliance with CEQA.
   A.   The project will have "No Significant Impacts" on the environment, and
a Negative Declaration will be prepared;
   B.   The project has been modified to mitigate potential environmental
impacts to a level of insignificance and a Mitigated Negative Declaration will
be prepared;
   C.   The project is within the scope of a Master EIR or other appropriate
document authorized by CEQA, no additional significant environmental effect
will result, and no additional mitigation measures or alternatives may be
required; or
   D.   The proposed project will have, or may have, significant impact(s) and
an EIR will be required. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.106.070: REVIEW AUTHORITY FOR THE CEQA FINDING:
The Review Authority of the entitlement shall also have the authority to adopt
the related CEQA finding. For example, should the Director be the Review
Authority, the Director shall also have the authority to approve the related
CEQA finding. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.106.080: APPEALS:
Notwithstanding other provisions of this Code, the applicant or any aggrieved
person may appeal the following environmental determinations made by non-
elected, decision-making bodies of the City directly to City Council, unless
the Council is the approving authority for the project:
   A.   Determination that a project is or is not subject to environmental
review.
   B.   Determination that a project is exempt from environmental review.
   C.   Approval of a Negative Declaration or Mitigated Negative Declaration.
   D.   Approval of a Finding of Conformity with the Master EIR.
   E.   Certification of a Final EIR. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
ARTICLE 7. ZONING CODE ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 10.110
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10.110.010: Purpose
10.110.020: Initiation
10.110.030: Application And Fee
10.110.040: Noticing And Public Hearing Procedures
10.110.050: Report
10.110.060: Planning Commission Action
10.110.070: City Council Action
10.110.080: New Application
10.110.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide procedures for amending the text of
this Zoning Code or the Official Zoning Map whenever public necessity,
convenience, and general welfare require such amendment to maintain consistency
with the General Plan. Such amendments shall be made in accordance with the
procedures prescribed in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.110.020: INITIATION:
An application to amend the General Plan, rezone land, change or revise a
zoning district regulation, requirement(s) for off-street and or loading
facilities, general provisions, exceptions, or other provisions may be
initiated by:
   A.   A property owner;
   B.   The City Manager;
   C.   City Council action;
   D.   Planning Commission recommendation to the City Council; and/or
   E.   Council action to adopt an interim ordinance in compliance with State
Law. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.110.030: APPLICATION AND FEE:
   A.   Application. A qualified applicant, the Community Development Director,
the City Council, or Planning Commission shall submit a rezone application or
plan amendment on a form prescribed by the Director. The Director may require
an applicant to submit such additional information and supporting data as
considered necessary to process the rezone application as described below. A
resolution of initiation may act as the application for the City Council or
Planning Commission.
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Statement that the applicant is the owner of the property for which
the application for a rezone is proposed, or the authorized agent of the owner,
or the plaintiff in an action of eminent domain to acquire the property
involved.
      3.   Address and description of the property.
      4.   Description of the proposed change(s).
   B.   Coordination with Other Applications. The Community Development
Director may allow any necessary applications for amendments to zoning
regulations or for approval of discretionary permits to be processed
concurrently with the proposed Amendments.
   C.   Application Fees. The application shall be accompanied by a fee set by
a resolution of the City Council in the Master Fee Schedule, sufficient to
cover the cost of processing the application as prescribed in this Chapter.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.110.040: NOTICING AND PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Public Hearing Initiation. The Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing on each application for a rezone or relief of a zoning district
regulation, off-street parking or loading facilities requirement, general
provision, exception, or other provision of this Title initiated by a property
owner or authorized agent, the City Manager (or their designee), the City
Council, or the Planning Commission can bring a recommendation to the City
Council.
   B.   Notice of Public Hearing. When an application is initiated for any
amendment as described above in Section
10.110.040 (A), the public shall be provided a notice of the hearing in
compliance with State Law (Government Code Sections 65090-65094 and 66451.3 and
Public Resources Code 21000 et seq.) and as required by this Chapter. Notice of
a public hearing shall be given at least ten (10) days before the date of the
public hearing:
      1.   Contents of Notice. Notices shall comply with the following
standards:
         a.   Hearing Information. The date, time, place, and purpose of the
hearing and the name of the hearing body; the phone number and street address
of the Department where an interested person could call or visit to obtain
additional information.
         b.   Project Information. The City's project case number (if the case
is assigned a number) assigned to the application; a general explanation of the
matter to be considered; a general explanation of the purpose of the
application; a general description, in text and/or by diagram, of the location
of the property that is the subject of the hearing.
         c.   Statement of Environmental Document. If a draft Negative
Declaration (ND), Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND), or Environmental Impact
Report (EIR) has been prepared for the project, or if the project has been
determined to be exempt, in compliance with the provisions of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The hearing notice shall include a statement
that the hearing body will also consider approval of the draft Negative
Declaration, Mitigated Negative Declaration, or Environmental Impact Report
      2.   Method of Notice Distribution. The distribution of notices shall
comply with the following standards:
         a.   Published and circulated in a local newspaper; and
         b.   First class mailing, postage prepaid, a notice of the hearing
shall be mailed to all owners of real property within a three hundred and
fifty-foot (350') radius, unless a different radius is specified elsewhere in
this Title, that is subject to the hearing in accordance with Government Code
Section 65091; and
         c.   First class mailing, postage prepaid, a notice of the hearing to
any person who has filed a written request therefore with the Planning
Commission. Such request may be submitted at any time during the calendar year
and shall apply for the balance of such year; and
         d.   Posted on the City's website.
      3.   Additional Notices. The Community Development Director, at their
discretion, may increase the public notice distance requirements if, in their
opinion, the project has the potential to impact properties outside of the
standard mailing radius. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.110.050: REPORT:
The Community Development Director shall prepare a report and recommendation to
the Planning Commission on any application for an amendment to this Code. The
report shall include a description of the proposed amendment, and analysis of
implications of the amendment, an environmental document prepared in compliance
with the California Environmental Quality Act, and a City staff recommendation.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.110.060: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a written
recommendation to the Council as to whether the change would be consistent with
the General Plan and the purposes and intended application of the Zoning Code
change proposed. The Planning Commission, through the Community Development
Department, shall transmit a report to the City Council recommending that the
application be granted or denied, or that the proposal be adopted or rejected,
together with one copy of the application, resolution of the Planning
Commission or request of the City Council, the scale drawing of the parcel and
the surrounding area and all other data filed therewith, the report of the
Community Development Director and the findings of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.110.070: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Upon receipt of the resolution and report of the Planning Commission,
the City Council shall hold a public hearing.
   B.   Notice of the time and place of said hearing shall be given in the time
and manner provided under Section
10.100.040 (Noticing and Public Hearing Procedures) of this Chapter. The notice
shall include a summary of the Planning Commission recommendation, if available
at the time of the notice.
   C.   After the close of the public hearing, the City Council shall make a
specific finding in writing as to whether the amendment is required to achieve
the objectives of this Title and, when applicable, whether the amendment would
be consistent with the General Plan and the purposes and application intended
for the zoning district classification proposed.
   D.   After the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may approve,
modify, or deny the proposed application. If the Council proposes any
substantial modification not previously considered by the Planning Commission
during its hearing, the proposed modification shall be re-referred to the
Planning Commission for report and recommendation at a public hearing where
notice shall be given in the time and manner provided under Section
10.100.040 (Noticing and Public Hearing Procedures) of this Chapter. The
failure of the Planning Commission to report within forty-five (45) calendar
days (excluding City-recognized holidays) after the referral shall be deemed a
recommendation to approve and the application, as amended, shall be returned to
Council for adoption.
   E.   Action by City Council shall be final. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.110.080: NEW APPLICATION:
Following the denial of an application submitted and processed in accordance
with this Chapter, no application for the same or substantially the same change
shall be filed within twelve (12) months of the date of denial of the
application. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10.112
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10.112.010: Permits, Certificates, And Licenses
10.112.020: Community Development Director
10.112.030: Fees
10.112.040: Violations And Penalties
10.112.010: PERMITS, CERTIFICATES, AND LICENSES:
   A.   All officials, departments, and employees of the City vested with the
authority or duty to issue permits, certificates, or licenses, shall comply
with the provisions of this Article and shall issue no permit, certificate, or
license which conflicts with the provisions of this Zoning Code. Any permits,
certificates, or licenses issued in conflict with the provisions of this Zoning
Code shall be void.
   B.   Before issuing a business license for any new business or for a new
location for any existing business activity, the Community Development Director
or their designee, or other authorized licensing official within the Community
Development Department, shall issue a Zoning Clearance. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.112.020: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:
   A.   Duties.  The Community Development Director or their designee shall be
the official responsible for the enforcement of this Title. In the discharge of
their duty, the Director shall have the right to enter on any site or to enter
any structure for the purpose of investigation and inspection, provided that
the right of entry shall be exercised only at reasonable hours and that in no
case shall any structure be entered in the absence of the owner or tenant
without written permission from the owner or the written order of a court of
competent jurisdiction. The Director may serve notice requiring the removal of
any structure or use in violation of this Title to the owner or their
authorized agent, on a tenant, or on an architect, builder, contractor, or
other person who commits or participates in any violation. The Director may
request the City Attorney to institute necessary legal proceedings to enforce
the provisions of this Title, and the City Attorney is hereby authorized to
institute appropriate actions to that end. The Director may call upon the Chief
of Police and his authorized agents to assist in the enforcement of this Title.
   B.   Arrest and Citation Powers. The Community Development Director, and
such other persons as shall be designated by the Director, are hereby
designated under this Code with all power, duty, rights, authority, and
responsibility pertaining thereto. They shall have the right, authority, and
duty to exercise the responsibilities of the office in accordance with the
provisions of this Code.
   C.   In accordance with the provisions of Penal Code Section 836.5, the
Community Development Director, and all others authorized by the Director,
shall have the power of arrest and citation as described in Penal Code Section
836.5 and Chapter 5C (commencing with Section 853.6) with regard to any
violation of the provisions of Title 9 (Building Regulations) of the City Code
pertaining to building regulations and the provisions of California State law
pertaining to the Uniform Building Code, National Electrical Code, Uniform
Plumbing Code, all primary and secondary codes thereto, Uniform Mechanical
Code, Uniform Housing Code and Uniform Code for the Abatement of Substandard or
Dangerous Buildings, plus provisions of this Title 10 (Zoning Regulations)
pertaining to zoning and Title 11 (Subdivision Regulations) pertaining to
subdivisions and other divisions of land. These powers shall be exercised in
accordance with the provisions of California law pertaining to citation
authority for these purposes; provided however, the Director shall not have any
other power to take persons into custody except for the purpose of exercising
restraint of any person who fails or refuses to execute a written promise to
appear and then only until such time as the assistance of a police officer or
other peace officer can be obtained; and provided further, the provisions
hereof do not create any other peace officer status or authority on the
Director except as described in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.112.030: FEES:
   A.   Application Fees. The City Council authorizes the collection of fees
relating to applications administered under this title. Said fees shall be
established by the Master Fee Schedule.
   B.   Development Impact Fees.  Development impact fees shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   Authority To Impose and Charge. The City Council is hereby granted
authority to establish and charge development impact fees as a condition of
approval of a development project for the purpose of defraying the costs of
public facilities (including public improvements, public services, and
community amenities) related to development projects. Development impact fees
may be established and charged to pay for the cost of development of
transportation facilities, law enforcement facilities, fire protection
facilities, general government facilities, storm drainage facilities,
wastewater facilities, water facilities, and parks and recreation facilities.
      2.   In enacting resolutions establishing and imposing such development
impact fees, the City Council shall establish the specific amount of the fee,
describe the benefit and impact area on which the development impact fee is
imposed, list the specific public improvements to be financed, describe the
estimated cost of the facilities, describe the reasonable relationship between
the fees and the various types of developments, and establish the time for
payment.
      3.   The City Council may further provide by resolution that specific
limitations will apply to reductions, adjustments, waivers or deferrals of
development impact fees, and the City Council may, in such resolution,
establish such specific limitations.
      4.   Such resolutions shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions
of Government Code Chapter 5, Division 1 of Title 7 (commencing with Section
66000).
      5.   With regard to storm drain facilities impact fees, no less than
fifty percent (50%) of such current impact fees collected by the City shall be
spent on projects that specifically result in Kings River water being recharged
to the aquifer underlying the City. Recharge shall take place at location(s) no
farther than three miles from the City limits, unless approved by any
applicable government agency(ies). Unless otherwise required to do so by law,
the City shall not decrease the amount of storm drain facilities impact fees
below the amount reflected in the applicable development impact fee schedule.
The City shall maintain this practice in full force and effect until the first
of either of the following occurs:
         a.   The City achieves overall groundwater sustainability; or
         b.   The groundwater sustainability agency of which the City is a
member has an approved plan to achieve sustainability.
      In calculating overall groundwater sustainability, the City may include
offsets for recharge, including at those locations for which development impact
fees or other City funds were used to create recharge facilities whether within
or outside of the current City limits. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.112.040: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this Zoning Code shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor or, at the discretion of the City Attorney, an infraction. A
person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day during any
portion of which a violation of this Zoning Code is committed, continued, or
allowed by the person.
   B.   Any structure erected, moved, altered, enlarged or maintained and any
use of a parcel contrary to the provisions of this Title shall be and is hereby
declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance, and the City Attorney shall
immediately institute necessary legal proceedings for the abatement, removal
and enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law, and shall take such other
steps as may be necessary to accomplish these ends, and shall apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction to grant such relief as will remove or abate the
structure or use and restrain or enjoin the person from erecting, moving,
altering or enlarging the structure or using the parcel contrary to the
provisions of this Title.
   C.   All remedies provided for in this Chapter shall be cumulative and not
exclusive. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
ARTICLE 8. DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 10.120
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10.120.010: General
10.120.020: “A” Definitions
10.120.030: “B” Definitions
10.120.040: “C” Definitions
10.120.050: “D” Definitions
10.120.060: “E” Definitions
10.120.070: “F” Definitions
10.120.080: “G” Definitions
10.120.090: “H” Definitions
10.120.100: “I” Definitions
10.120.110: “J” Definitions
10.120.120: “K” Definitions
10.120.130: “L” Definitions
10.120.140: “M” Definitions
10.120.150: “N” Definitions
10.120.160: “O” Definitions
10.120.170: “P” Definitions
10.120.180: “Q” Definitions
10.120.190: “R” Definitions
10.120.200: “S” Definitions
10.120.210: “T” Definitions
10.120.220: “U” Definitions
10.120.230: “V” Definitions
10.120.240: “W” Definitions
10.120.250: “X” Definitions
10.120.260: “Y” Definitions
10.120.270: “Z” Definitions
10.120.010: GENERAL:
This Chapter provides definitions of terms and phrases used in this Zoning Code
that are technical or specialized, or that may not reflect common usage. If any
of the definitions in this Chapter conflict with definitions in other
provisions of the Reedley City Code, these definitions shall control for the
purposes of this Zoning Code. If a word is not defined in this Chapter, or in
other provisions of the Reedley City Code, the Community Development Director
shall determine the correct definition in compliance with Article 1 (Enactment
and Applicability). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.020: “A” DEFINITIONS:
ABUT: Immediately contiguous or physically touching.
ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTER: See definition for “Guest Quarter.”
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE:
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, NONRESIDENTIAL: A structure that is physically detached
from, secondary and incidental to, and commonly associated with a
nonresidential use or structure. Nonresidential accessory structures shall not
change or alter the character of the nonresidential use or structure.
Illustrative examples of nonresidential accessory structures include storage
sheds and open-air structures. For additional regulations, see
Chapter 10.32 (Accessory Structures).
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, RESIDENTIAL: A structure that is physically detached
from, secondary and incidental to, and commonly associated with a residential
use or structure. Residential accessory structures shall not change or alter
the character of the residential use or structure. Illustrative examples of
residential accessory structures include detached garages, carports, porticos,
porte-cocheres, sheds, workshops, gazebos, greenhouses, cabanas, trellises,
play structures, aviaries, and covered patios. For additional regulations, see
Chapter 10.32 (Accessory Structures). For accessory dwelling unit, see
“Dwelling, Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU).” For junior accessory dwelling unit,
see “Dwelling, Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU).”
ACCESSORY USE: A use that is clearly subordinate, incidental, and secondary to
the primary use of the land, or any use that is determined by the Community
Development Director to be customarily part of or related to the primary use of
the land and does not change the character of the primary use or primary
structure.
ADJACENT: Near or close to.
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW: A review used to determine whether findings can be made
that a land use is in compliance with the intent and provisions of this Zoning
Code.
ADULT DAYCARE FACILITY: See definition for “Community Care Facility.”
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: See
Title 3, Chapter 12 (Sexually Oriented Businesses) of the Reedley Municipal
Code.
AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYEE/WORKER HOUSING: Residential housing whose occupancy is
restricted to persons who are employed in agriculture, including the raising or
harvesting of any agricultural commodities. See “Agriculture.”
AGRICULTURE: The practice of farming, including tilling of soil, the raising of
crops, horticulture, viticulture, aviculture, apiculture, livestock grazing,
the raising of small animals and poultry, domestic livestock farming, dairying,
and animal husbandry.
AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL HUSBANDRY: The raising, breeding, and caring of farm
animals (e.g., cattle, horses, goats, sheep, chickens, hogs, rabbits, birds) as
a commercial agricultural venture or minor occupation.
AGRICULTURE, DAIRIES: An agricultural establishment raising large animals for
the primary purpose of milking, including cattle, goats, and sheep.
AGRICULTURE, HORTICULTURE: Agricultural crops, fruit trees, hay crops,
nurseries for producing trees, vines and other horticultural stock, orchards,
pasture crops, nut trees, row crops, vineyards, and other plant crops.
Horticulture activities exclude marijuana and hemp cultivation.
AIRPORT, HELIPORT, AND HELIPAD: Any area which is used or is intended to be
used for the taking off and landing of aircraft, including helicopters and any
appurtenant areas which are used or are intended to be used for airport
structure or facilities, including open spaces, taxiways and “tie down” areas.
ALCOHOL BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, which contains one-half of
one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances, and sales of which requires a State Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control (ABC) license.
ALCOHOL BEVERAGE SALES: The retail sale of alcoholic beverages.
Title 3, Chapter 11 (Alcoholic Beverage Licenses) of the Reedley Municipal
Code.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALE, ACCESSORY: The retail sale of alcoholic beverages
that is clearly subordinate to, incidental to, and clearly secondary to the
primary use of the land, and which is licensed and regulated by the California
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. Illustrative examples include
commercial recreation facilities or restaurants which serve alcohol for on-site
consumption and convenience stores which sell alcohol for off-site consumption.
The total floor area dedicated to the accessory sale of alcohol shall not
exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the primary use of
the land. For alcohol beverages sales for off-site consumption that exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) threshold, see “Alcohol Beverages Sales, Standalone.”
For alcohol beverages sales for on-site consumption that exceed the twenty-five
percent (25%) threshold, see “Bar.”
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES, STANDALONE: A retail establishment dedicated to
the exclusive sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off-site and which is
licensed and regulated by an agency under the jurisdiction and control of the
State of California. Illustrative examples include liquor stores and bottle
shops. For accessory alcohol sales, see “Alcoholic Beverage Sales, Accessory.”
For on-site consumption of alcoholic beverages, see “Bar.”
ALLEY: Any dedicated right-of-way intended for vehicular service to the rear or
side of property served by a street.
ALTER: To make any change in the floor plan, or supporting or load bearing
components of a structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or
floor joists.
AMBULANCE SERVICE: A commercial facility where ambulances are stored, and from
which ambulances and emergency personnel are dispatched to emergencies.
AMENDMENT: A change in the wording, context, or substance of this Zoning Code,
an addition or deletion or a change in the zone district boundaries or
classification upon the zoning map.
AMI: Area Median Income, adjusted for family size, applicable to Fresno County
as published annually pursuant to Title 25 of the California Code of
Regulations, Section 6932 (or successor statutes) by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development or its successor in accordance with
California Health and Safety Code Sections 50079.5, 50105 and 50093 or
successor statutes.
ANCILLARY SERVICES: See definition for “Accessory Use.”
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: See definition for “Veterinary Clinic.”
ANIMAL PRODUCT PROCESSING: An establishment which provides processing and
rendering services of deceased animals and animal byproducts for retail sales,
marketing, and packaging. Illustrative examples include slaughterhouses and
taxidermists.
ANTENNA: One or more rods, panels, discs, or similar devices used for the
transmission or reception of radio or electromagnetic frequency signals.
   DIRECTIONAL ANTENNA (“PANEL” ANTENNA): Transmits and receives radio
frequency signals in a specific directional pattern of less-than three hundred
and sixty degrees (360°).
   OMNI-DIRECTIONAL ANTENNA (“WHIP” ANTENNA): Transmits and receives radio
frequency signals in a three hundred and sixty degree (360°), radial pattern.
For the purpose of this Code, an omni-directional antenna is up to fifteen feet
(15') in height and up to seven inches (7") in diameter.
   PARABOLIC ANTENNA (“DISH” ANTENNA): A bowl-shaped device for the reception
and transmission of radio frequency signals in a specific directional pattern.
Also referred to as a satellite dish.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: An apparatus capable of receiving communications
from a transmitter relay located in planetary orbit.
APARTMENT: See definition for “Dwelling, Multi-Unit.”
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: See definition for “Community Care Facility.”
ATHLETIC CLUB: See definition for “Gym.”
AUCTION HOUSE: Indoor or outdoor facility devoted to the sale of property
(e.g., merchandise, vehicles, etc.) and animals (e.g., cattle, horses, etc.) to
bidders under the supervision of an agent or entity. See
Title 3, Chapter 6 (Auctions) in the Reedley Municipal Code.
AUTOMATIC TELLING MACHINE (ATM): Computerized, self-service machines used by
banking customers for financial transactions, including deposits, withdrawals,
and fund transfers, without contact with financial institution personnel. The
machines may be located at or within banks, or in other locations, in
compliance with Article 2 (Zones, Allowable Uses, and Development Standards).
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION: See definition for “Vehicle Repair and Service,
Minor.”
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: See definition for “Vehicle Salvage and Dismantling
Facility.” (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.030: “B” DEFINITIONS:
BAKERY: See definition for “Restaurant.”
BANK AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Commercial establishment, including a federally
chartered bank, savings and loan association, investment services, industrial
loan company, or credit unions, that provides retail banking services to
individuals and businesses. Does not include pawnshops, payday lending, tax
refund anticipation loan businesses, and/or check cashing businesses.
BANQUET HALL: See definition for “Place of Assembly.”
BAR: An establishment whose primary business is the sale of alcoholic beverages
to customers for onsite consumption, which may also provide live entertainment
(e.g., music and/or dancing, comedy, etc.) in conjunction with alcoholic
beverage sales. This does not include on-site manufacturing of alcoholic
beverages. Also referred to as a tavern or cocktail lounge.
BARBED WIRE: Wire for fences or barriers having sharp barbs or points of metal
twisted into smooth wire at regular intervals.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A commercial use within a residential dwelling used for
sleeping facilities for not more than six (6) guest units available to the
public for hire on an overnight or limited term basis with a thirty (30)-day
maximum stay and operated as an accessory use to the owner or manager's
residence. Such use may also include a continental breakfast if limited to
guests. See Section
10.50.030 (Bed and Breakfast Inns) for additional development and operational
standards for bed and breakfast inns.
BEEKEEPING: The keeping and maintenance of a collection of hives or colonies of
bees. Also known as “apiary.”
BILLBOARD: See
Chapter 10.30 (Sign Regulations).
BIOLOGICAL AGENT: A microorganism or infectious substance, or any naturally
occurring, bioengineered or synthesized component of any such microorganism or
infectious substance up to and including Risk Groups 1 - 4 classifications as
defined by the National Institute of Health (NIH) or the United States Center
for Disease Control (CDC).
BIOSAFETY LEVEL (BSL): The four (4) ascending levels of containment
precautions, referred to as Biosafety Levels 1 through 4, required to isolate
dangerous biological agents in an enclosed laboratory facility as set forth in
the most current edition of Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical
Laboratories (BMBL) published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and National
Institutes of Health (NIH), based on the primary risk criteria of infectivity,
severity of disease, transmissibility, and the nature of the work being
conducted. Each level of containment describes the microbiological practices,
safety equipment, and facility safeguards for the corresponding level of risk
associated with handling an agent.
BLOCK: All property fronting on one side of a street between intersecting and
intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, end of
a cul-de-sac, or city or county boundary. Where the city-county boundary
intersects or intercepts a street in a block as described herein, the block
shall be considered to end at the city or county boundary.
BLOCK FRONTAGE: All property fronting on one side of a street between a street
and right-of-way, waterway, or between intersecting or intercepting streets,
the end of a dead-end street, or city or county boundary measure along a street
line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage
on the side of the street that it intercepts.
BOARDING, ANIMAL: See “Kennel.”
BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A dwelling other than a hotel, motel, bed and
breakfast inn, or emergency shelter where lodging and meals are provided for
compensation for five (5) but not more than fifteen (15) persons.
BODY ART: Body piercing, tattooing, branding, or the application of permanent
cosmetics or makeup.
BODY ART ACTIVITY: Any temporary or permanent application, process of
application, sterilization, sanitation, cleaning, preparation, implementation,
or other procedure, used in the conduct of body art or any associated activity,
which is necessary to conduct “body art”, as defined in this Article.
BODY ART FACILITY: The specified structure or section of a structure, including
reception areas, the procedure area and the decontamination and sterilization
area used for the purpose of performing body art on clients. “Body art
facility” does not include those facilities that only pierce ears with a
disposable, single use, presterilized clasp and stud or solid needle that is
applied using a mechanical device to force the needle or stud through the ear,
such as the type of mechanism used at a jewelry store.
BODY ART PRACTITIONER: A person that has completed an approved bloodborne
pathogen training course and is registered with and received a permit from the
Fresno County Department of Public Health to conduct body art activity,
including permanent cosmetics or makeup.
BODY PIERCING: The creation of an opening in the human body for the purpose of
inserting jewelry or other decoration. Includes, but is not limited to, the
piercing of the ear, including the tragus, lip, tongue, navel, nose, or
eyebrow. Does not include the piercing of the ear, except the tragus, with a
disposable, single use, presterilized clasp and stud or solid needle that is
applied using a mechanical device to force the needle or stud through the ear.
BRANDING: The process in which a mark or marks are burned into human skin
tissue with a hot iron or other instrument with the intention of leaving a
permanent scar.
BREEZEWAY: A roofed passageway, open on at least two sides, connecting the main
structure on a site with another main structure or accessory structure or
accessory use on the same site.
BREWERY, DISTILLERY, AND WINERY:
   BREWERY: Establishments where malt beverages are manufactured and or
produced on the premises. Also see “Tasting Room.” Such enterprise(s) are
subject to regulation by an agency under the jurisdiction and control of the
State of California.
   DISTILLERY: Establishments which produce distilled spirits for consumption,
sales, and or distribution. Such enterprise(s) are subject to regulation by an
agency under the jurisdiction and control of the State of California. These
uses are incidental to the production of spirits and are permitted accessory
uses to a distillery. Also see “Tasting Room.”
   WINERY: An agricultural processing facility producing wine on the premises
from fruit or fruit juices through fermentation or the refermenting of still
wine into sparkling wine that is bonded through the alcohol, tobacco tax and
trade bureau and has a current license from the applicable State agency under
the jurisdiction and control of the State of California. Also see “Tasting
Room.”
BUILDING: A permanently located structure, having exterior walls and a roof,
for the housing or enclosure of persons, goods, possessions, or property of any
kind. Mobile homes, travel trailers and other vehicles, even though permanently
immobilized, shall not be deemed to be buildings.
BUILDING MATERIAL SALES AND STORAGE: Indoor and/or outdoor retail establishment
selling hardware, tools, lumber, landscaping materials, and other building
materials. May also include the rental of tools and equipment used in the
building trades.
BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES: See definition for “Home and Business Services.”
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.040: “C” DEFINITIONS:
CARD ROOM: Any structure, or portion thereof, for which legal gambling or
gaming is conducted. The term shall include any restaurant, bar, assembly room,
meeting room, lodge room or fraternity building or facility, or office which is
part of or appurtenant to the room or rooms in which legal gambling or gaming
is conducted.
CARETAKER'S RESIDENCE: A single-unit residence on the same property with, or on
abutting property owned by the owner of, a nonresidential use, which residence
is occupied by one or more persons charged with the care or protection of
facilities used in such nonresidential use.
CARPORT: An accessory structure or portion of a primary structure open on one
or more sides designed for the parking or storage of motor vehicles, without
full enclosure.
CAR WASH: A facility having the following definitions:
   AUTOMATED DRIVE-THROUGH: A facility that provides for washing of vehicles
through a volume of sound in compliance with the General Plan fully automated
car wash facility where the customer drives the vehicle into the facility and
remains in the car during the wash process.
   MECHANICAL: A facility that provides for the washing of vehicles using
mechanical equipment such as conveyor chains, blowers, steam guns, roller
brushes, and high-pressure vacuum units or similar equipment. The customer
exits the vehicle and waits for the attendant to complete the washing,
cleaning, and driving of the vehicle. This car wash has a waiting area for the
customer and a designated finishing and/or detailing area to complete the car
care service.
   SELF-SERVICE: A facility that provides vehicle washing to be done by the
customer. There are no employees other than service people who check and
maintain the equipment, open and close the facility, and provide general
supervision of the use of the facility. Equipment shall be limited to a water
softener, water heater, soap mixing tank, low pressure vacuum units, and a one
horsepower electric motor and pump for each stall or similar equipment which
shall produce only a volume of sound in compliance with the General Plan.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead, and
dedicated for such purposes, including columbarium, crematoriums, mausoleums,
and mortuaries, when operated in conjunction with and within the boundaries of
such premises.
CHILD DAYCARE HOME: See definition for "Family Daycare Home."
CHURCH: See definition for "Place of Assembly."
CIGAR LOUNGE: An establishment that is dedicated, in whole or in part, to the
smoking of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or other substances,
including but not limited to establishments known variously as cigar lounges,
hookah lounges, tobacco clubs, tobacco bars, etc. (collectively referred to as
"smoking lounge(s)").
CLINIC: See definition for "Office, Medical."
CLUB, LODGE, MEETING HALL: See definition for “Place of Assembly.”
COLLEGE: See definition for “School, Private/Public College and University.”
COLLEGE, TRADE: See definition for “School, Technical and Vocational.”
COMMERCIAL, OFFICE: See definition for “Office, Professional.”
COMMERCIAL RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY:
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY, CINEMA OR THEATER: Indoor
or outdoor establishment where entertainment (participant or spectator) is
provided for a fee (admission or membership) for the pleasure of the patrons,
either independent of or in conjunction with another use. Does not include
adult entertainment businesses, bars, or any of those uses specified as indoor
commercial recreation and entertainment facilities. See “Commercial Recreation
and Entertainment Facility, Indoor.” Illustrative examples include movie
theaters, cinemas, amphitheaters, and play theaters.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY, INDOOR: Indoor
establishment where entertainment (participant or spectator) is provided for a
fee (admission or membership) for the pleasure of the patrons, either
independent of or in conjunction with another use. Does not include theaters,
cinemas, adult entertainment businesses, bars, or shooting ranges. See
“Commercial Recreation and Entertainment Facility, Cinema or Theater.
Illustrative examples of indoor commercial recreation and entertainment uses
include:
 
•   Arcade    •   Indoor ice/roller skating rink
•   Axe throwi•   Pool and billiard room
•   Bowling al•   Soccer arena
•   Indoor arc•   Volleyball court
 
COMMERCIAL SPEECH: Any speech or writing which promotes and/or proposes a
commercial transaction.
COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT BUILDING: See definition for “Utility Facility and
Infrastructure.”
COMMUNITY CARE FACILITY: In compliance with Title 22 of the California Code of
Regulations, any facility, place, or structure which is maintained and operated
to provide residential care, day treatment, adult day care, or foster family
agency services for children or adults, including, but not limited to the
physically handicapped, mentally impaired, incompetent persons, elderly, and
abused or neglected children. This use is further categorized by size: Small
(six (6) or fewer residents) and Large (seven or more residents). For the
purpose of this Zoning Code, small community care facilities shall be
considered a residential use, whereas large community care facilities shall be
considered a commercial use. Community care facilities include the following:
   ADULT DAYCARE FACILITY: Facility that provides care to persons eighteen (18)
years of age or older in need of personal services, supervision, or assistance
essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection
of the individual on less than a twenty-four (24)-hour basis.
   CHILD THERAPEUTIC DAY SERVICES FACILITY: Facility that provides care,
counseling, educational or vocational support, or social rehabilitation
services on less than a twenty-four (24)-hour basis to persons under eighteen
(18) years of age who would otherwise be placed in foster care or who are
returning to families from foster care.
   COMMUNITY TREATMENT FACILITY: Facility that provides care and mental health
treatment services to children in a group setting. Program components shall be
subject to program standards developed by the State.
   FOSTER HOME: Facility that provides twenty-four (24)-hour care for foster
children which is owned, leased, or rented and is the residence of the foster
parent(s), including their family, in whose care the foster children have been
placed.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: Group care facility for twenty-four (24)-hour
care of persons in need of personal services, supervision, or assistance
essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection
of the individual. Includes residential care facilities for the elderly,
skilled nursing, convalescent homes, intermediate care facilities, assisted
living establishments, and memory care.
   SOCIAL REHABILITATION FACILITY: Residential facility which provides social
rehabilitation services for no longer than eighteen (18) months in a group
setting to adults recovering from mental illness who temporarily need
assistance, guidance, or counseling.
CONDITION OF APPROVAL: A requirement which must be carried out by the activity,
land use, or applicant to retain a project's approved status.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit which requires special consideration of
conditional land uses so that it may be located properly with respect to the
objectives of this Zoning Code and with respect to their effects on surrounding
properties. Conditional Use Permits also may give the zone district land use
regulations of this Zoning Code the additional flexibility necessary to achieve
the objectives of this Zoning Code. Conditional Use Permits shall comply with
the standards established in
Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use Permit) of this Zoning Code.
CONSIGNMENT STORE: See definition for “Retail Sales, Secondhand.”
CONTIGUOUS: See definition for “Abut.”
CONTRACTOR STORAGE YARD: A facility which provides storage for a contractor
licensed by the State for large equipment, vehicles, or other materials
commonly used in the individual contractor's type of business; storage of scrap
materials used for repair and maintenance of contractor's own equipment; and
buildings or structures for uses such as offices and repair facilities.
CONVALESCENT HOME: See definition for “Community Care Facility.”
CONVENIENCE STORE: See definition for “Retail Sales, Convenience Store.”
CORNER CUTOFF AREA: A space on a corner parcel and any driveway/alley/ right-
of-way/access easement in which all visual obstructions (e.g., fencing,
structures, and plantings) that inhibit visibility and thus cause a hazard to
traffic and pedestrian safety are prohibited. See Section
10.30.060 (Corner Cutoff Area).
COUNTRY CLUB: A private club organized and operated for social purposes and
possessing outdoor recreational facilities, such as golf courses, tennis
courts, or polo grounds.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street closed at one end with a circular turnaround. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.050: “D” DEFINITIONS:
DAYCARE CENTER: A childcare facility, other than a family daycare home, which
provides nonmedical care and supervision of children under the age of eighteen
(18) years of age for periods of less than twenty-four (24) hours; including
the following subtypes, all of which are required to be licensed by the State:
   DAYCARE CENTER, ACCESSORY USE: A day care facility that is operated in
conjunction with a business, school, housing development, or religious
facility. Includes infant centers, preschools, and extended child day care
facilities not exceeding twenty-four (24) hours.
   DAYCARE CENTER, PRIMARY USE: A standalone day care facility not operated as
a child day care home or accessory day care center. Includes infant centers,
preschools, and extended child day care facility.
DAY SPA AND SALON: See definition for “Health or Day Spa.”
DEEMED APPROVED STATUS: The status of any legal activity in existence
immediately prior to the effective date of any ordinance or this Code.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per gross acre, unless otherwise stated,
for residential uses, and the floor area ratio (FAR) for commercial uses (see
definition for “Floor Area Ration (FAR).” See Figure 10.120-1 (Residential
Density - Dwelling Unit Per Acre).
FIGURE 10.120-1
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY - DWELLING UNIT PER ACRE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3483.jpg]
DENSITY BONUS: As defined by Government Code Section 65915 et seq., is an
increased density over the maximum authorized density which is granted to an
owner/developer of a housing project meeting the qualifying requirements of
Government Code Section 65915. When determining the number of dwelling units
that are to be affordable, the number of dwelling units authorized by the
density bonus shall not be included. See Section
10.50.050 (Density Bonus and Concessions for Affordable Housing).
DENSITY BONUS HOUSING AGREEMENT: A legally binding agreement between an owner/
developer and the City of Reedley to ensure that the requirements of this Code
and State law are satisfied. The agreement shall establish the number of bonus
units, their size, location, terms, and conditions of affordability, and
production schedule. The agreement shall also require proper management and
maintenance of the units. See Section
10.50.050 (Density Bonus and Concessions for Affordable Housing).
DEPARTMENT STORE: See “Retail Sales, General.”
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD: Any definitive, measurable characteristic or aspect of a
development, specified by this Zoning Code, such as, but not limited to, yard
setbacks, parking, building height, parcel area and dimensions, and defined
linear distances such as for signs and spacing requirements.
DISTRIBUTION FACILITY: See definition for “Warehousing Facility.”
DRIVE-IN AND DRIVE-THROUGH SALES: Facilities where food or other products may
be purchased by motorists without leaving their vehicles. These facilities
include, but are not limited to, fast-food restaurants, drive-through coffee,
dairy products, and pharmacies, excluding any and all tobacco products and
tobacco-related products, and excluding any and all alcohol products.
DUMP: See definition for “Refuse Disposal Site.”
DUPLEX: See definition for “Dwelling, Two-Unit.”
DWELLING: A structure or portion thereof, designed exclusively for residential
purposes, but not including hotels, motels, boarding and rooming houses, rest
homes, convalescent homes, nursing homes, community care facilities, or
childcare nurseries. This use was previously referred to as “family unit” in
prior versions of this Code. Also see definition for “Household Unit.”
   DWELLING, ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): An attached or detached dwelling
unit that provides complete independent living facilities on the same parcel as
a legal single-unit or multi-unit dwelling, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, a full kitchen facility, and a bathroom facility. See
Chapter 10.52 (Accessory Dwelling Unit) and
Chapter 10.54 (Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit).
   DWELLING, JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (JADU): An accessory dwelling unit
which is located within the living space of an existing primary single-unit
dwelling, as defined in the California Health and Safety Code. See
Chapter 10.52 (Accessory Dwelling Unit) and
Chapter 10.54 (Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit).
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME AND MOBILE HOME: A structure intended for human
habitation manufactured or constructed under authority of the Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, or State law. The
structure is manufactured either in whole or in substantial part at an off-site
location, transported to and assembled on-site, and placed on a permanent
foundation. See Section
10.50.110 (Mobile Home Parks).
   DWELLING, MULTI-UNIT: A residential structure containing four or more
residential dwelling units, each of which is for the occupancy by one or more
persons living as a single household unit, including four-plexes, apartments,
and townhouses.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-UNIT: Residential structure, including manufactured housing
and mobile homes, when placed on a permanent foundation system, containing one
dwelling unit located on a single parcel of land for occupancy by a single
household.
   DWELLING, THREE-UNIT: A residential structure containing three (3)
residential dwelling units, each of which is for the occupancy by one or more
persons living as a single household unit, including triplexes, rowhouses, and
townhouses.
   DWELLING, TWO-UNIT: A residential structure containing two (2) residential
dwelling units, each of which is for the occupancy by one (1) or more persons
living as a single household unit, including duplexes and townhouses. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.060: “E” DEFINITIONS:
EASEMENT: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner
to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or entity.
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES: See definition for “School.”
ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SUBSTATION: See definition for “Utility Facility and
Infrastructure.”
ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION SUBSTATION: See definition for “Utility Facility and
Infrastructure.”
EMERGENCY SHELTER: Housing with minimal supportive services for homeless
persons limited to occupancy of six (6) months or less. In compliance with
Government Code Section 65583(a)(4), emergency shelters shall also include
other interim intervention facilities, including but not limited to bridge
housing, navigation center, and respite or recuperative care. No individual or
household may be denied emergency shelter because of an inability to pay.
EMPLOYEE HOUSING:
   EMPLOYEE HOUSING, LARGE: Privately owned housing which houses seven (7) or
more employees in living quarters and is provided in connection with any work,
whether or not rent is involved. Employee housing is subject to the provisions
of the Employee Housing Act.
   EMPLOYEE HOUSING, SMALL: Privately owned housing which houses up to six (6)
employees in living quarters and is provided in connection with any work,
whether or not rent is involved. Employee housing is subject to the provisions
of the Employee Housing Act.
EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTAL FACILITY: Service establishment with or without
outdoor storage/rental yards, which offer a wide variety of equipment types,
including construction equipment. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.070: “F” DEFINITIONS:
FAMILY: See definition for “Household Unit.”
FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: A single-unit dwelling used by the occupant to provide day
care and supervision for up to fourteen (14) children in compliance with the
Health and Safety Code. Children under the age of ten (10) years who reside in
the home do not count as a part of the fourteen (14)-child maximum.
FARMER'S MARKET AND MULTI-TENANT MARKET: An indoor or outdoor commercial
establishment with multiple vendors that facilitates the sale of produce,
plants, prepared foods and beverages, and other commercial goods.
Establishments consist of booths, tables, or stands.
FARMWORKER HOUSING: See definition for “Agricultural Employee Housing.”
FENCE: Any structural device forming a vertical physical barrier, other than a
wall (see definition for “Wall”) intended to either mark the boundary of
property, or act as a visual, noise, or security barrier. A fence may be made
of a variety of materials and constructed with or without openings (see
definition for “Fence, Open” and “Fence, Screened”) in compliance with
Chapter 10.34 (Fences, Walls, and Hedges).
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, fifty percent (50%) or more of the vertical surface of
which is open to the transmission of light, air, and vision.
FENCE, SCREENED: A fence, ninety percent (90%) or more of the vertical surface
of which is closed to the transmission of light, air, and vision.
FINAL MAP: An official subdivision map filed for recordation with the County
Recorder in compliance with Title 11 (Subdivisions) of Reedley Municipal Code
and the Subdivision Map Act, evidencing divisions of land. Also referred to as
a “Tract Map”.
FIXED VENDING ESTABLISHMENT: A vending establishment consisting of one or more
mobile vendors operating on private property.
FRONTAGE: That portion of a parcel of property which abuts a dedicated public
street or highway.
FUNERAL AND BURIAL SERVICES:
   FUNERAL AND BURIAL SERVICES, BODY PREPARATION AND CREMATION: A facility
where deceased persons are stored and/or prepared for burial, cremation, or
viewing. Viewings, sales of funeral related items (i.e., caskets, urns), and
funeral/memorial services are not allowed. See “Funeral and Burial Services,
Funeral Home.”
   FUNERAL AND BURIAL SERVICES, FUNERAL HOME: A facility which facilitates the
sale of funeral and memorial service-related items (i.e., caskets, urns,
memorial items). The facility may allow funeral memorial services and/or
viewings. Does not include body preparation or cremation services of deceased
persons. See “Funeral and Burial Services, Body Preparation and Cremation.”
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.080: “G” DEFINITIONS:
GARAGE, PRIVATE: See definition for “Accessory Structure.”
GARAGE, PUBLIC: See definition for “Parking Facility.”
GARAGE, REPAIR: See definition for “Vehicle Repair and Service.”
GARDEN STRUCTURE: See definition for “Accessory Structure.”
GAS STATION: See definition for “Vehicle Fueling Station.”
GENERAL PLAN: The City of Reedley General Plan, including all its elements and
all amendments to the General Plan, as adopted by the City Council under the
provisions of Government Code Sections 65300 et seq., and referred to in this
Zoning Code as the “General Plan.”
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT (GPA): The legislative act of changing the General Plan,
including, but not limited to, a change in land use designation, circulation
designation, or a modification of the text itself.
GOLF COURSE: A tract of land, either public or private, dedicated to playing
the game of golf, and improved with trees, greens, fairways, and hazards. Golf
course may include related facilities such as clubhouses, golf schools and
driving ranges and accessory uses such as restaurants, pro shops, and related
facilities. See “Country Club.”
GROUP HOUSING:
   GROUP HOUSING, LARGE: Any structure, facility, premises, or portion thereof,
at which seven or more persons reside in a group occupancy setting, but not
including a hotel, motel, fraternity, sorority, rooming and/or boarding house,
skilled nursing facility or emergency shelter. This facility is generally
characterized by the provision of a prearranged or organized household
structure or program. Residents of a facility may also receive medical
treatment in addition to any non-medical supportive services in a residential
or congregate care setting, as opposed to a hospital.
   GROUP HOUSING, SMALL: Any structure, facility, premises, or portion thereof,
at which up to six (6) persons reside in a group occupancy setting, but not
including a hotel, motel, fraternity, sorority, rooming and/or boarding house,
skilled nursing facility or emergency shelter. This facility is generally
characterized by the provision of a prearranged or organized household
structure or program. Residents of a facility may also receive medical
treatment in addition to any non-medical supportive services in a residential
or congregate care setting, as opposed to a hospital.
GUEST: Any transient person who occupies a room for sleeping purposes.
GUEST ROOM: A room which is designed to be occupied by one (1) or more guests
for sleeping purposes but without full kitchen facilities, not including
dormitories.
GUEST QUARTERS: An accessory structure that provides sleeping or living
accommodations located on the same premises with an existing main structure,
such accommodations having no full kitchen facilities (see definitions for
“Kitchen”, “Kitchenette”, and “Wet Bar”) and not rented or otherwise used as a
separate dwelling unit.
GYM AND ATHLETIC CLUB: A commercial membership facility that provides fitness
services and facilities including, but not limited to, weight rooms, exercise
classes and courses, exercise equipment, and health and lifestyle training.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.090: “H” DEFINITIONS:
HEALTH OR DAY SPA: Establishments engaged in the purchase, sale or transaction
of personal services rendered by licensed professionals such as manicurists,
aestheticians, makeup artists, hairstylists, massage therapists, and other
related health and beauty professionals. Shall include a sauna, whirlpool,
cryotherapy chamber, and other similar amenities for the incidental use of
patrons. May include beauty shop, nail salon, barber shop, or massage
establishment/parlor. See “Personal Service, General.”
HEDGE: A series of plant material arranged in a formal pattern to create a
barrier of plants which are cut or clipped to create a living fence.
HELIPAD: See definition for “Airport, Heliport, Helipad.”
HELIPORT: See definition for “Airport, Heliport, Helipad.”
HOME AND BUSINESS SERVICE: Establishment providing homeowners, landlords, and
other businesses with services including maintenance, repair and service,
testing, and rental including:
Advertising service               Mail advertising service
Business equipment repair/service Janitorial service (including carpet
                                  cleaning services)
Commercial art and design         Extermination service
Protective service                Appliance repair services
Computer-related services         Linen suppliers
Soil and materials testing        Locksmiths
Window cleaning                   Property management services
Photo developing and processing   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning
                                  (HVAC) repair and installation services
 
HOME OCCUPATION: The conduct of an art or profession, the offering of a service
or the conduct of a business, or the handicraft manufacture of products within
a residential dwelling, subject to the property owner's authorization, which
use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the structure for
dwelling purposes and which does not change the character thereof.
HORSE STABLE: Private or commercial structure including, but not limited to, a
corral or paddock for the keeping of one or more horses.
HOSPITAL: Facility providing medical, physical, psychiatric, or surgical
services on a twenty-four (24)-hour basis for sick or injured persons primarily
on an in-patient basis and including ancillary facilities for out-patient and
emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, research, administration,
and ancillary services to patients, employees, or visitors (i.e., cafeteria,
gift/flower shop, waiting rooms, pharmacy).
HOTEL/MOTEL: A commercial establishment that provides lodging, and usually food
services (restaurant), entertainment and personal services to the public based
on an agreed payment of a fixed amount of money in exchange for use of the
guestroom for a fixed period of time, typically on a nightly or weekly basis,
but not for more than twenty-nine (29) consecutive days, but excluding a
housing facility, emergency shelter, fraternity, sorority, rooming or boarding
house, rest home or family. “Hotel” shall not be construed to include trailer
court, hospital or other institutional building or jail or other building where
persons are housed under restraint.
HOUSEHOLD UNIT: One (1) or more persons, related or unrelated, living together
as a single integrated household in a dwelling unit. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.100: “I” DEFINITIONS:
ILLEGAL ACTIVITY: An activity which has been determined to be in noncompliance
with the established performance standards, permit processing procedures, and
required activities in this Code. Such an activity, land use, and/or
entitlement shall lose its approved status and shall no longer be considered an
approved activity.
INDUSTRIAL: Establishment engaged in the manufacturing of finished parts or
products either from raw materials or previously prepared materials, within an
enclosed structure. Includes processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment,
testing, packaging, storage/warehousing, incidental office space, sales, and
distribution of the parts or products. Excludes vehicle/equipment rentals,
vehicle repair and service, vehicle sales.
   INDUSTRIAL, HAZARDOUS: Manufacturing facilities that produce or use
explosives, or basic chemicals, and other establishments creating products
predominantly by chemical processes. Facilities included in this definition
manufacture four general classes of products:
      A.   Ammunition manufacturing;
      B.   Biofuels or batteries;
      C.   Chemical products to be used in further manufacture, including
synthetic fibers, plastic materials, dry colors, and pigments; and
      D.   Finished products to be used for ultimate consumption, including
prescription/ over-the-counter drugs, cosmetics, batteries, and soaps; or to be
used as materials or supplies in other industries including paints,
fertilizers, petroleum, oils, tar, asphalt, gas, and explosives.
   INDUSTRIAL, MAJOR: The manufacturing, processing, storing, and/or testing of
goods using large quantities of raw materials, and generally requiring high
capitalization and production of large quantities of output. Major industrial
uses often sell products to other businesses rather than consumers.
Characteristics of major industrial uses include, but are not limited to, heavy
trucking activity, noise, emissions requiring Federal or State environmental
permits, and use of large quantities of raw materials. Examples of major
industrial uses include, concrete and plaster manufacturing, metal production,
firearm manufacturing, glass product manufacturing, paving and roofing
materials manufacturing, synthetic product manufacturing, wood and lumber
processing, pulp and pulp paper product manufacturing, textile and leather
product manufacturing, cotton processing, rubber processing, coal processing,
and assembly and manufacturing of vehicle and/or vessels (including aircraft).
   INDUSTRIAL, MINOR: The manufacturing, processing, storing, and/or testing of
consumer-oriented goods in a manner that does not produce noticeable odors, air
emissions, noise, or other environmental effects, and that has limited
associated trucking activity. Minor industries generally require limited
amounts of raw materials to produce goods. Examples of minor industrial uses
include food and beverage manufacturing/production, artisan/craft product
manufacturing, cold storage and packing houses, bottling plant, electronics,
equipment and appliance manufacturing, small-scale manufacturing/assembly,
machine shops, dyeing plant, metal product fabrication, clay and pottery
product manufacturing, optical glass production, commercial laundries and dry-
cleaning plants, cabinet shop, welding shop, and assembly of small electronics
and medical equipment.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT: A project of less than five acres in the city limits, which
is consistent with General Plan and Zoning Code, is served by all required
utilities and public services, and would not result in any traffic, noise, air
or water quality effects related to the surrounding built environment.
INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITY: See “Community Care Facility.” (Ord. 2024-001, 9-
10-2024)
10.120.110: “J” DEFINITIONS:
JUNK: Any worn out, cast off, or discarded article or material that is ready
for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to
some use; some of which may be re-useable.
JUNKYARD: A site or portion of a site on which waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed,
disassembled or handled, including used furniture and household equipment
yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and the like; excepting a site
on which uses are conducted within a completely enclosed structure and
excepting automobile wrecking yards as defined in this Chapter. An
establishment for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars, farm equipment or
salvaged machinery in operable condition and the processing of used or salvaged
materials as part of a manufacturing operation shall not be deemed a junkyard.
(Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.120: “K” DEFINITIONS:
KENNEL: Any parcel, building, structure, enclosure, or premises where
domesticated household animals are boarded, trained, or kept, whether in
special buildings or runways or not. May also include daytime boarding and
activity for animals (e.g., “doggie daycare” “doggie hotel”) and ancillary
grooming facility.
KITCHEN: A room or space within a structure intended to be used for the cooking
or preparation of food. A kitchen includes appliances or fixtures for the
storage and/or preparation of food, including but not limited to refrigeration,
dishwashers, countertops, cabinets, sinks, or cooking facilities (e.g., cook
tops, stoves, ovens). For the purpose of this definition, wet bars are exempt.
KITCHENETTE: Any room used or intended or designed to be used for cooking or
the preparation of food that does not include a primary heating source. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.130: “L” DEFINITIONS:
LAND USE: The purpose for which a site or structure is arranged, designed,
intended, constructed, moved, erected, altered, or enlarged or for which either
a site or structure is or may be occupied or maintained.
LAND USE, ANCILLARY: A land use incidental, related, appropriate, and clearly
subordinate to the main use of the site or building, which ancillary use does
not alter the principal use of the site. Ancillary land uses shall make up less
than fifty percent (50%) of a site. Also referred to as “accessory use.”
LAND USE, CONDITIONAL: A land use which is listed as a conditional use in any
given zoning district in this Zoning Code. Conditional uses may be required to
meet certain requirements as a condition precedent to the granting of a use
permit which will allow the establishing of a conditional use as established in
Chapter 10.100 (Conditional Use Permit).
LAND USE, NONCONFORMING: Use of a structure or land which, under this title,
does not conform with the use regulations for the district in which it is
located.
LAND USE, ALLOWED: A land use which is listed as “allowed” in any given zoning
district in this Zoning Code. Allowed land uses need not meet special
requirements as a condition precedent to be allowed to establish in a given
zone district. Also referred to as “land use allowed by-right.”
LAND USE, PRIMARY: The land use that makes up more than fifty percent (50%), if
not all, of a parcel. Also referred to as “main use.”
LANDSCAPING: The planting and continued maintenance of suitable vegetation in
conformity with the requirements of
Chapter 10.36 (Landscaping) of this Zoning Code.
LARGE FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: See definition for “Family Day Care Home.”
LEGAL NONCONFORMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES ACTIVITY: An alcoholic beverage
sales activity which was a nonconforming use in compliance with the
nonconforming use regulations in Section
10.50.020 (Alcohol Beverage Sales Establishments) of this Code, and for which a
valid license had been issued by an agency under the jurisdiction and control
of the State of California and used in the exercise of the rights and
privileges conferred by the license, at a time immediately prior to the
effective date of the deemed approved alcoholic beverage sale regulations. Such
an activity shall be considered a deemed approved activity, and shall no longer
be considered a legal nonconforming activity, except such activity shall be
subject to those zoning regulations relating to nonconforming uses as specified
in Section
10.50.020 (Alcohol Beverage Sales Establishments) as of the effective date of
the deemed approved alcoholic beverage sale regulations.
LEGAL NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure which was lawfully erected prior to
the adoption of this Zoning Code, but which no longer conforms with the
standards of setbacks, coverage, yard space, height of structures or distance
between structures prescribed in the regulations for the zone district in which
the structure is in compliance with the Zoning Code. Legal nonconforming
structures shall be subject to the regulations established in Article 5
(Nonconformities).
LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE: Use of a structure or land which was lawfully
established and maintained prior to the adoption of this Zoning Code, but
which, under this title, does not conform with the use regulations for the
district in which it is located. Legal nonconforming structures shall be
subject to the regulations established in Article 5 (Nonconformities).
LOADING: The removal or placement of any commodity in, on, or from a vehicle of
any type.
LOADING SPACE: An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a primary
structure, or contiguous to a group of structures for the temporary parking of
commercial vehicles while loading or unloading, which space abuts a street,
alley, or other appropriate means of ingress and egress.
LOCAL CONTACT PERSON: A person designated by an owner or the owner's agent,
who, if designated to act as such, shall be available to respond to
notification of a complaint regarding the dwelling, and take remedial action
necessary. A local contact person may be the owner or the owner's agent.
LODGE: See definition for “Place of Assembly.”
LOT: See definition for “Parcel.”
LOT AREA: See definitions for “Parcel Area.”
LOT COVERAGE: See definition for “Parcel Coverage.”
LOT DEPTH: See definitions for “Parcel Depth.”
LOT WIDTH: See definition for “Parcel Width.”
LOUNGE: See definition for “Bar.”
LOW BARRIER NAVIGATION CENTER: Housing or shelter in which a resident who is
homeless or at risk of homelessness may live temporarily while waiting to move
into permanent housing. Allowed within mixed use projects in commercial zone
districts. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.140: “M” DEFINITIONS:
MARIJUANA CULTIVATION, PERSONAL USE: The planting, growing, harvesting, drying,
and processing of up to six (6) marijuana plants or any part thereof by persons
twenty-one (21) years of age or older for personal use or transfer without any
compensation whatsoever to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
MEDICAL BUILDING: See “Office, Medical.”
MEZZANINE: An intermediate floor placed in any story or room. When the total
area of any such mezzanine floor exceeds thirty-three and one- third percent
(33-1/3%) of the total floor area in that room, it shall be considered as
constituting an additional story. The clear height above or below the mezzanine
floor construction shall be not less than seven feet (7').
MINI STORAGE: See “Storage Facility, Personal.”
MINOR DEVIATION: A modification of up to ten percent (10%) of any property
development standard noted in the text of this Zoning Code, for any “zone
district”, as defined in this Zoning Code, that is found to not be detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to property and improvements in the area in
which the property is located. Minor deviations shall be applied for and
processed in compliance with
Chapter 10.94 (Minor Deviation).
MIXED-USE: A parcel developed as a unit containing more than one land use type.
MOBILE HOME PARKS: Any parcel or contiguous parcels of land, designed or
intended to be used to accommodate mobile homes on a permanent or semi-
permanent basis, in compliance with Section
10.50.110 (Mobile Home Parks) of this Code.
MOBILE RECYCLING UNIT: See definition for “Recycling Facility, Small
Collection.”
MOBILE VENDOR: A mobile vendor is a fully enclosed vehicle with cooking, hot
holding, mechanical refrigeration equipment, and electrical generator. All food
preparation must be done on the vehicle or at commercial kitchens permitted as
commissaries. Vehicles, food, equipment, or utensils used for retail operations
may NOT be stored, used, prepared, or serviced at private homes.
MOTEL: See definition for “Hotel/Motel.”
MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING YARD: See definition for “Vehicle Salvage and
Dismantling Facility.”
MUSEUM: A commercial, public, or quasi-public facility that provides space for
preserving and exhibiting artistic, historical, scientific, natural, or other
objects of interest. Activities may include the sale of objects collected and
memorabilia, the sale of crafts work and artwork, boutiques, and the holding of
meetings and social events. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.150: “N” DEFINITIONS:
NIGHTCLUB: See definition for “Bar.”
NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH: Any message that is not commercial speech, which includes
but is not limited to, messages concerning political, religious, social,
ideological, public services and informational topics. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-
2024)
10.120.160: “O” DEFINITIONS:
OCCUPANCY FRONTAGE: A single linear dimension measured horizontally along the
front of a structure which defines the limits of a particular occupancy at that
location and which has direct customer (pedestrian or vehicular) access through
an exterior wall which is visible from the public right-of-way.
OCCUPANT: Any person who is on or in a short-term rental property other than
service providers, the owner, or Local Contact Person, whether or not the
person stays overnight.
OFF STREET LOADING FACILITY: A site or a portion of a site devoted to the
loading or unloading of motor vehicles or trailers, including loading berths,
aisles, access drives and landscaped areas.
OFF STREET PARKING FACILITY: A site or a portion of a site devoted to the off
street parking of motor vehicles including parking spaces, aisles, access
drives and landscaped areas.
OFFICE: Facility or business that predominantly offers medical, professional,
or business services.
   OFFICE, MEDICAL: Facility primarily providing outpatient medical, mental
health, minor surgical, and other similar personal health services, but which
is separate from a hospital, including: medical, dental, and psychiatric
offices, outpatient care facilities, acupuncture, and other allied health
services.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL: Facility and businesses that predominantly offer
professional and/or business services including, but not limited to architects,
attorneys, accountants, advertising, computer support, land use planners, and
other similar professional services and uses.
OPERATOR: The owner(s) or the designated agent of the owner(s) who is
responsible for compliance with all applicable provisions of Title 10 - Zoning
Code of the City of Reedley. “Operator” includes a lessee.
OWNER: The person(s) or entity(ies) that holds legal or equitable title to a
dwelling. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.170: “P” DEFINITIONS:
PARCEL: A recorded parcel of real property under single ownership, lawfully
created as required by the Subdivision Map Act and City ordinances, including
this Zoning Code. Types of lots include the following (see Figure 10.120-2
(Parcel Types)).
   CORNER PARCEL: A parcel located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets, where they intersect at an interior angle of not more than one hundred
and thirty-five degrees (135 ). If the intersection angle is more than one
hundred and thirty-five degrees (135 ), the parcel is considered an interior
lot.
   FLAG PARCEL: A parcel having access from the building site to a public
street by means of private right-of-way strip that is owned in fee.
   INTERIOR PARCEL: A parcel abutting only one (1) street.
   KEY PARCEL: An interior parcel, the front of which adjoins the side property
line of a corner parcel.
   REVERSE CORNER PARCEL: A corner parcel, the rear of which abuts the side of
a key parcel.
   THROUGH PARCEL: A parcel with frontage on two generally parallel streets.
FIGURE 10.120-2
PARCEL TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3485.jpg]
PARCEL AREA: The total horizontal area within the parcel lines of a parcel.
   GROSS PARCEL AREA: The parcel width multiplied by the parcel depth. See
Figure 10.120-3 (Parcel Features).
   NET PARCEL AREA: The gross parcel area subtracted by the horizontal area of
all easements on the parcel. See Figure 10.120-3 (Parcel Features).
PARCEL COVERAGE: The percentage of total site area occupied by structures.
Structure coverage includes the primary structure, all accessory structures
(e.g., carports, garages, patio covers, storage sheds, trash dumpster
enclosures, etc.) and architectural features (e.g., chimneys, balconies, decks
above the first floor, porches, stairs, etc.). Parcel coverage is measured from
exterior wall to exterior wall. Parcel coverage does not include the landscaped
area of a parcel or paving coverage. See Figure 10.120-3 (Parcel Coverage).
FIGURE 10.120-3
PARCEL COVERAGE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3487.jpg]
PARCEL LINE OR PROPERTY LINE: Any recorded boundary of a parcel. Types of
parcel lines are as follows (see Figure 10.120-4 (Parcel Features)):
   FRONT PARCEL LINE: On an interior parcel, the parcel line separating the
parcel from the street or City right-of-way. The front parcel line on a corner
parcel is the line with the shortest frontage. If the street-fronting parcel
lines of a corner parcel are equal in length, the front parcel line shall be
determined by the Director. On a through parcel, both parcel lines are front
parcel lines, and the parcel is considered to have no rear parcel line.
   INTERIOR SIDE PARCEL LINE: Any side parcel line not abutting a street.
   REAR PARCEL LINE: A parcel line that does not intersect the front parcel
line, which is most distant from and most closely parallel to the front parcel
line.
   SIDE PARCEL LINE: Any parcel line that is not a front or rear parcel line.
   STREET SIDE PARCEL LINE: The longer street fronting parcel line of a corner
lot.
PARCEL DEPTH: The depth of a parcel shall be the horizontal length of a
straight line connecting the midpoints of the front and rear parcel lines. See
Figure 10.120-4 (Parcel Features). The Director shall determine parcel depth
for parcels of irregular shape.
PARCEL WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side parcel lines, measured
at right angles to the parcel depth at a point midway between the front and
rear parcel lines. See Figure 10.120-4 (Parcel Features). The Director shall
determine parcel width for parcels of irregular shape.
FIGURE 10.120-4
PARCEL FEATURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2bb2d557c538887733de63ec88253c98a73d0b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3489.jpg]
PARCEL MAP: A map showing the subdivision of land involving four (4) or fewer
parcels, in compliance with Title 11 (Subdivision Regulations ) of the Reedley
Municipal Code and the Subdivision Map Act.
PARK: Open space, river, river-access, beaches, and/or beach-access facilities
owned and operated and/or formally designated, whether named or unnamed, by the
City Council.
PARKING DISTRICT: A government parking district maintained by the Federal,
State, County , City or special district.
PARKING FACILITY: A site or a portion of a site devoted to the off-street
parking of motor vehicles including parking spaces, aisles, access drives and
landscaped areas.
PATIO: An outdoor space that is typically paved or made of a solid base and
unobstructed from the base to the sky.
PATIO COVER: An outdoor space that is typically paved or made of a solid base
and has a structure projecting over it. Also referred to as a porch.
PEDESTRIANWAYS: A paved surface, protected from motorized vehicles and
bicycles, which is specifically designated or intended to be open to pedestrian
travel.
PENNANT: Lightweight plastic, fabric, or other materials, suspended from a
rope, wire, or string designed to move in the wind. Does not include banners or
individual flags mounted on a single pole.
PERMANENT COSMETICS OR MAKEUP: Any application of pigment to or under the skin
of a person for the purpose of permanently or semi-permanently changing the
color or appearance of the skin. Includes, but is not limited to, permanent or
semi-permanent eyeliner, eyebrows, or lip color. Applicators of permanent
cosmetics or makeup are considered body art practitioners.
PERSONAL SERVICE, GENERAL: Commercial establishment that provides personal
services. May also include accessory retail sales of products related to the
personal services. Does not include health or day spas of any kind. See “Health
or Day Spa.” General personal services include:
 
Alterations            Laundromat (self-service laundry)
Ambulance service      Locksmith
Barber and beauty shop Nail salon
Clothing rental shop   Shoe repair
Dry-cleaning           Hair Salon
 
PETROL STATION: See definition for “Vehicle Fueling Station.”
PLACE OF ASSEMBLY: Facility intended for public or private assembly and
meetings, including civic and private auditoriums, banquet halls, community
centers, conference, and convention facilities, meeting halls for clubs and
other membership organizations, and places of worship (i.e., church,
synagogue).
PLANNED LAND USE DESIGNATION: The depiction of different land use designations
as shown by various colors on the General Plan Land Use Map. Each designation
is identified and goals and policies for each planned land use designation are
listed in the General Plan.
PLATE LINE: The top horizontal line of a building wall upon which the roof
rests.
PLAYGROUND: An outdoor recreation area which provides recreation oriented to
children with facilities which typically include play structures and spaces for
court games and field games.
PRINTING SHOP: A commercial establishment that provides duplicating services
using photocopy, blueprint, and/or offset printing equipment, including
collating of booklets and reports, for orders from an individual, business,
profession, service, industry, or government organization.
PROCESSING FACILITY: See definition for “Recycling Facility.”
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: See definition for “Office, Professional.”
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARD: See definition for “Development Standard.”
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Any property, structure, or land use therof that
is owned, leased, and/or maintained by the City of Reedley, Fresno County,
State of California, or Federal Government. These uses include:
   LIBRARY: Public facility that provides the use of literary, musical,
artistic, or reference materials.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: Structure used (either owned or rented) by public agencies,
including City of Reedley, Fresno County, State of California, and or Federal
administration buildings; fire stations, and other fire prevention and
firefighting facilities; police and sheriff substations and headquarters,
including interim incarceration facilities, and post offices. Does not include
facilities specifically identified under another land use category, including
schools.
   PUBLIC RECREATION AREA: Noncommercial outdoor recreation area that provides
a variety of recreational facilities including playground equipment, open space
areas for active and passive recreation and picnicking, and sport and active
recreational facilities. May also include enclosed structures providing for
recreational opportunities and community gardens.
   PUBLIC STRUCTURES: Including telecommunication towers, monuments, and
statues.
PUBLIC ARTWORK: For the purposes of inclusion in the development process,
public artwork shall be defined as follows:
   A.   Sculpture: freestanding, wall supported or suspended; kinetic,
electronic; in any appropriate material or combination of materials.
   B.   Murals or portable paintings: in any appropriate material or variety of
materials, with or without collage or the addition of nontraditional materials
or means.
   C.   Photography, original works of graphic art, limited edition prints,
works on/off paper, original paintings on approved walls or surfaces.
   D.   Earthworks, fiber works, waterworks, neon, glass, mosaics, or any
combination or forms of media including sound, literary elements, holographic
images, or hybrids of media and new genres.
   E.   Furnishings or fixtures, including, but not limited to, gates,
railings, streetlights or seating, if created by artists as unique elements.
   F.   Artistic or aesthetic elements of the overall architecture or landscape
design if created by a professional artist or a design team that includes a
professional visual artist.
   G.   The following items shall not be eligible for inclusion as public
artwork:
      1.   Directional elements such as supergraphics, signage or color coding
except where these elements are integral parts of an overall design created by
a professional visual artist.
      2.   “Art objects” which are mass produced or of standard manufacture,
such as playground equipment, fountains, or statuary elements, unless
incorporated into an artwork by a project artist.
      3.   Mass produced reproductions, by mechanical or other means, of
original works of art.
      4.   Decorative, ornamental, architectural or functional elements which
are designed by the building architect, as opposed to elements created by an
artist commissioned for that purpose.
PUBLIC ENTRANCE: A doorway which has been designed for the primary use of the
patrons or customers of that commercial use. Also referred to as “customer
entrance.”
PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE YARD: See definition for “Utility Facility and
Infrastructure.” (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.180: “Q” DEFINITIONS:
QUASI-PUBLIC ORGANIZATION: Any non-government organization that is devoted to
public service and welfare. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.190: “R” DEFINITIONS:
RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY: A piece of real property for the accommodation of main
lines or branch line railroad tracks, switching equipment and signals, but not
including lands on which stations, offices, storage buildings, spur tracks,
sidings, section gang and other employee housing yards or other uses are
located.
RAZOR WIRE: A mesh of metal strips with sharp edges, usually strung along the
tops of fences in three (3) parallel strips.
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: Providing individuals with disabilities, or
developers of housing for individuals with disabilities, flexibility in the
application of land use, zoning and building regulations, policies, practices
and procedures or waiving enforcement, if necessary, to ensure equal access to
housing for individuals with disabilities in compliance with
Chapter 10.90  (Reasonable Accommodation), and State and Federal fair housing
laws.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper or
camping trailer, with or without motive power, designed not for use as a
permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping,
travel, or seasonal use.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK: A parcel, or contiguous parcels, of land under
single ownership, designed or intended to be used to accommodate recreational
vehicles on a transient basis (thirty (30) days of continuous occupancy or
less).
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Includes paper, plastics, glass, aluminum, corrugated
cardboard, and other materials which can be separated from regular garbage for
reuse not including yard waste diverted from the solid waste stream.
RECYCLING:
   BULK REVERSE VENDING MACHINE: A bulk reverse vending machine is a reverse
vending machine that is larger than fifty (50) square feet, is designed to
accept more than one container at a time and will pay by weight instead of
container.
   COLLECTION FACILITY, SMALL: Small collection facilities which occupy an area
of not more than five hundred (500) square feet, and may include:
      A.   A mobile unit;
      B.   Bulk reverse vending machines or a grouping of reverse vending
machines occupying more than fifty (50) square feet;
      C.   Kiosk type units which may include permanent structures; and/or
      D.   Unattended containers placed for the donation of recyclable
materials.
   COLLECTION FACILITY, LARGE: Large collection facilities which may occupy an
area of more than five hundred (500) square feet and may include permanent
structures.
   MOBILE RECYCLING UNIT: An automobile, truck, trailer, or van, licensed by
the California Department of Motor Vehicles which is used for the collection of
recyclable materials. A mobile recycling unit also means the bins, boxes or
containers transported by trucks, vans, or trailers, and used for the
collection of recyclable materials.
   PROCESSING FACILITY: A structure or enclosed space used for the collection
and processing of recyclable materials. "Processing" means the preparation of
material for efficient shipment or to an end user's specifications, by such
means as baling, briquetting, compacting, flattening, grinding, crushing,
mechanical sorting, shredding, cleaning, and remanufacturing. Processing
facilities include the following:
      A.   Light Processing Facility.  A light processing facility occupies an
area of under forty-five thousand (45,000) square feet of gross collection,
processing and storage area and has up to an average of two (2) outbound truck
shipments per day. Light processing facilities are limited to baling,
briquetting, crushing, compacting, grinding, shredding, and sorting of source
separated recyclable materials and repairing of reusable materials sufficient
to qualify as a certified processing facility. A light processing facility
shall not shred, compact, or bale ferrous metals other than food and beverage
containers.
      B.   Heavy Processing Facility. A heavy processing facility is any
processing facility other than a light processing facility.
   RECYCLING, COLLECTION FACILITY: A center for the acceptance by donation,
redemption, or purchase of recyclable materials from the public. Such a
facility does not use power driven processing equipment except as indicated in
Section
10.50.140  (Recycling Facilities) of this Title.
   RECYCLING FACILITY: A center for the collection and/or processing of
recyclable materials. A certified recycling facility or certified processor
means a recycling facility certified by the California Department of
Conservation as meeting the requirements of the California Beverage Container
Recycling and Litter Reduction Act of 1986. A recycling facility does not
include storage containers or processing activity located on the premises of a
residential, commercial, or manufacturing use and used solely for the recycling
of material generated by that residential property, business, or manufacturer.
   RECYCLING FACILITY, TRANSFER STATION: A facility which sorts and removes
recyclable materials (including paper, metal, wood, inert materials such as
soils and concrete, green waste, glass, aluminum and cardboard) through
separation and sorting technologies to divert these materials from the waste
stream otherwise destined for a refuse disposal site.
   REVERSE VENDING MACHINE: An automated mechanical device which accepts at
least one or more types of empty beverage containers including, but not limited
to, aluminum cans, glass and plastic bottles, and issues a cash refund or a
redeemable credit slip with a value not less than the container's redemption
value as determined by the state. A reverse vending machine may sort and
process containers mechanically, provided that the entire process is enclosed
within the machine. In order to accept and temporarily store all three (3)
container types in a proportion commensurate with their relative redemption
rates, and to meet the requirements of certification as a recycling facility,
multiple grouping of reverse vending machines may be necessary.
REFUSE DISPOSAL SITE: A place used for the disposal, abandonment, processing,
or discarding by burial, incineration or by any other means of any garbage,
sewage, trash, refuse, rubble, waste material, offal, or dead animals.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES: A facility for scientific research, and
the design, development, and testing of electrical, electronic, magnetic,
optical, pharmaceutical, chemical, biotechnological, medical, and mechanical
components in advance of product manufacturing. This use shall include assembly
of related products from parts produced off-site where the manufacturing
activity is secondary to the research and development activities.
RESIDENCE: A structure containing a dwelling unit designed for occupancy or
occupied by one or more household units.
RESTAURANT: A fixed commercial establishment where, during all business hours,
food and beverages are prepared, sold, and served to patrons, for consumption
on or off the premises. Establishments shall comply with all applicable local,
State, and Federal regulations regarding eating and drinking establishments.
Use to include fine dining establishments, sandwich shops, delicatessens, donut
shops, tearooms, cafes, and ice cream parlors.
RESTAURANT, ESTABLISHED: A fixed commercial establishment that was in operation
prior to the approved placement of a “fixed” vending establishment.
RETAIL SALES:
   RETAIL SALES, APPLIANCES AND FURNITURE: A commercial establishment engaged
primarily in the selling of household appliances, mattresses, and furniture,
including incidental repair services. Examples of these establishments include:
 
Draperies                         Large musical instruments (i.e., piano,
                                  organ)
Floor coverings                   Movable spas and hot tubs
Home appliances                   Office furniture
Home furnishings                  Outdoor furniture
Home sound systems                Televisions
Interior decorating materials and
services
 
   RETAIL SALES, CONVENIENCE STORE: A commercial establishment which carries a
range of merchandise oriented to convenience and travelers' shopping needs.
These stores may be part of a vehicle fueling station. The sales floor area
devoted to alcohol sales shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total floor area dedicated to merchandise sales, or as determined by the
Community Development Director.
   RETAIL SALES, GENERAL: Commercial establishment within a structure, engaged
in selling goods or merchandise to the general public for profit. Examples of
these establishments and types of merchandise include but are not limited to:
Appliances                             Kitchen utensils
Art studio and gallery                 Luggage and leather goods
Artists' supplies                      Medical supplies and equipment
Bakeries (retail only)                 Monument and headstones
Bicycle sales and rentals              Motor vehicle parts and accessories
Books                                  Musical instruments
Cameras and photographic supplies      Newsstands
Carpeting and floor covering           Office supplies
Clothing and accessories               Orthopedic supplies
Drug and discount stores               Paint and wallpaper
Electronic equipment                   Pet supplies and grooming
Fabrics and sewing supplies            Pharmacies
Firearm and ammunition sales           Religious goods
Florists and houseplant stores (indoor Shoe stores
sales only)
Gift shops                             Small wares
Handcrafted items                      Specialty shops
Hardware                               Sporting goods and equipment
Hobby materials                        Stationery
Home decor                             Toys and games
Jewelry                                Travel services
 
   RETAIL SALES, HOME IMPROVEMENT AND GARDEN SUPPLY: A retail store for the
sale of tools, paint, ornamental plants, lawn care supplies, and other similar
equipment and supplies. May include the sale of lumber, drywall, roofing, and
other similar building materials.
   RETAIL SALES, SECONDHAND: Commercial establishment principally engaged in
the buying, selling, or accepting on consignment, secondhand tangible personal
property and other activities as defined in California Business and Professions
Code. Includes secondhand clothing and antique stores. Also known as a thrift
store, antique store, or pawn shop.
   RETAIL SALES, SMOKE SHOP: Retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products, tobacco paraphernalia, vaping equipment, and or smoking
products, and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental.
RIFLE OR PISTOL RANGE: Indoor or outdoor facility for the sport of shooting at
targets using recreational and low-power equipment such as airguns, BB guns, or
airsoft guns, and or high-power equipment such as shot guns, long guns, semi-
automatic-rifles, automatic rifles, and hand guns.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Land in which the City owns the fee or has an easement devoted to
or required for use as a transportation facility and may lawfully grant access
pursuant to applicable law, and includes the surface, the air space over the
surface and the area below the surface of such right-of-way.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure used for the display and sale of produce,
plants and or flowers.
ROOFLINE: The highest point of the main roof structure or a highest point of a
parapet wall other than such architectural features such as cupolas, pylons,
projections or minor raised portions of the roof. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.200: “S” DEFINITIONS:
SALVAGE AND DISMANTLING FACILITY: See definition for “Vehicle Salvage and
Dismantling Facility.”
SCHOOL: Educational institution, including elementary, middle, junior high, and
high schools, serving transitional kindergarten through twelfth grade students,
offering general academic instruction equivalent to the standards prescribed by
the State Board of Education, and including denominational and sectarian,
boarding schools, charter schools, and military academies. Also includes
community colleges, public or private colleges, universities, and professional
schools granting associate arts degrees, certificates, undergraduate and
graduate degrees, and requiring for admission at least a high school diploma or
equivalent general academic training.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE: Privately owned and operated facility or institution
providing academic instruction for students in compliance with the California
Education Code. Includes special education and alternative learning schools.
Illustrative examples include elementary schools, junior highs, high schools,
colleges, and universities.
   SCHOOL, TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL: A public or private post-secondary school
providing occupational and job training. Use does not include recreational
activities (i.e., dance lessons, martial arts classes, music instruction). See
“Studio - Art, Dance, Music, and Photography.”
SECOND DWELLING UNIT: See definition for “Accessory Dwelling Unit.”
SELF-STORAGE: See definition for “Storage Facility, Personal.”
SENSITIVE RECEPTORS OR USES: A religious institution, post-secondary
educational institution, public education facility, school, regularly
established boys' club or girls' club or any public building regularly
frequented by children, essential government operation, facility, and/or
structure, public park, community center, senior center, public trail or public
structure; or a residential zone district.
SETBACK LINE: The minimum distance as established in this Zoning Code between
any property line and the closest point on any supporting wall, post, or pillar
of any structure related thereto.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: The rental of a dwelling or a portion thereof by the owner
to another person or group of persons for occupancy, dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive calendar
days.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT: The habitable interior space of a dwelling, or any
portion thereof, that is being rented, or is intended to be rented, as a short-
term rental to a person or group of persons.
SIGN: See
Chapter 10.40 (Sign Regulations).
SIGN AREA: See
Chapter 10.40 (Sign Regulations).
SINGLE RESIDENT OCCUPANCY: See definition for “Single Room Occupancy (SRO).”
SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY (SRO): Any residential structure containing more than
five (5) units intended or designed to be used, rented, or hired out to be
occupied for sleeping purposes, generally for one (1) or two (2) persons per
unit. SRO tenants typically share amenities within the building, such as common
area(s), bathroom/half-bath, kitchens and/or kitchenettes. Occupancy may be
either temporary or permanent residence.
SITE: See definition for “Parcel.”
SITE AREA: See definition for “Parcel Area.”
SITE DEPTH: See definition for “Parcel Depth.”
SITE PLAN: A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately all of the existing
physical characteristics of the subject property, and not limited to, property
lines and dimensions, phase lines, vicinity map, project site address, contact
information of the property owner, applicant and design consultant,
dimensioning, north arrow, title block, tables depicting development standards
and uses proposed for a specific parcel of land.
SITE PLAN REVIEW: See
Chapter 10.96 (Site Plan Review).
SITE WIDTH: See definition for “Parcel Width.”
SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES: See definition for “Community Care Facility.”
SMALL FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: See definition for “Family Day Care Home.”
SOLID MASONRY WALL: See definition for “Wall.”
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: See definition for “Refuse Disposal Site.”
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA: Includes less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breast below the top of
the areola; or Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY: See
Title 3, Chapter 12 (Sexually Oriented Businesses) of the Reedley Municipal
Code.
STABLE: See definition for “Horse Stable.”
STORAGE FACILITY:
   STORAGE FACILITY, PERSONAL: Facility with structures generally containing
small individual compartmentalized areas or lockers rented as individual
storage spaces or outdoor storage for motor vehicles, recreational vehicles,
and boats. Storage of vehicles may not be required to be located completely
within an enclosed building, but the rental office/waiting area is required to
be completely within an enclosed building.
   STORAGE FACILITY, RESTRICTED: Facility used for storage and distribution of
generally dangerous and hazardous materials, including, but not limited to,
chemicals, gasoline, biofuels, petroleum, propane, and explosives.
STORY: A space in a structure between the surface of any floor and the surface
of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, then the space between
such floor and the ceiling of the roof above.
STREET: A public or private way permanently dedicated or reserved as a primary
means of access to abutting property.
STREET LINE: The boundary line between street right of way and abutting
property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or built, any edifice or building of any kind,
or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together
in some definite manner, which requires location on the ground or is attached
to something having a location on the ground, including covered patios,
excepting outdoor areas such as paved areas, walks, tennis courts, and similar
recreation areas.
STRUCTURE, ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a structure,
such as foundations, bearing walls, columns, beams, floor or roof joists,
girders or rafters, or any change in the exterior dimensions of a building,
excepting those changes which may result from providing minor repairs and
structure maintenance.
STRUCTURE, AREA OF: The sum in square feet of the ground areas occupied by all
structures on a parcel.
STRUCTURE, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance measured from the adjoining curb
level to the highest point of the structure, exclusive of chimneys and
ventilators; provided, however, that where buildings are setback from the
street line, the height shall be measured from the average elevation of the
finished grade at the front of the structure.
STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING: A structure which, under this title, does not conform
with the standards of coverage, yard space, height of structures or distance
between structures prescribed in the regulations for the district in which the
structure is located.
STRUCTURE, PRIMARY: A structure within which is conducted the main land use
allowed on the parcel or site as provided by this Zoning Code.
STUDIO - ART, DANCE, MUSIC, AND PHOTOGRAPHY: Facilities for: individual and
group instruction and training in the arts; production rehearsal; photography,
martial arts training; gymnastics instruction, and aerobics and gymnastics
studios with no other fitness facilities or equipment.
STUDIO - BROADCASTING AND FILM RECORDING: Commercial and public communication
establishment that broadcasts or records radio, motion picture, film,
television, and other digital productions entirely within a structure. Does not
include transmission and receiving apparatus (e.g., antennas and towers), which
are included under the definition of “Telecommunications Facilities.”
SUBDIVISION: The division, by any subdivider, of any unit or units of improved
or unimproved land, or any portion thereof, shown on the latest equalized
county assessment roll as a unit or as contiguous units, for the purpose of
sale, lease or financing, whether immediate or future. Property shall be
considered as contiguous units, even if it is separated by streets, utility
easements or railroad rights-of-way. Any conveyance of land to a governmental
agency, public entity, public utility or subsidiary of a public utility for
conveyance to that public utility for rights-of-way shall not be considered a
division of land for purposes of computing the number of parcels. For purposes
of the preceding sentence, any conveyance of land to a governmental agency
shall include a fee interest, an easement or a license. See Title 11
(Subdivision Regulations) of the Reedley Municipal Code.
SUBDIVISION MAP: A map showing the subdivision of land of five or more parcels,
in compliance with Title 11 (Subdivision Regulations) of the Reedley Municipal
Code.
SUBDIVISION MAP ACT: Government Code Division 2 of title 7, commencing with
section 66410, as amended from time to time, involving the regulation and
control of the design and improvement of subdivisions. See Title 11
(Subdivision Regulations) of the Reedley Municipal Code.
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING: See definition for “Transitional Housing.” (Ord. 2024-001,
9-10-2024)
10.120.210: “T” DEFINITIONS:
TASTING ROOM: A commercial establishment that may or may not contain a kitchen
and is devoted to the sampling, onsite consumption, and sales of wine, beer,
and or distilled spirits either produced on or off the premises.
TATTOO: To insert pigment, ink or dye under the surface of the skin of a person
by pricking with a needle or otherwise, to permanently change the color or
appearance of the skin or to produce an indelible mark or figure visible
through the skin. Tattooing does not include the application of permanent
makeup.
TATTOO PARLOR: See definition for “Body Art Facility.”
TELECOMMUNICATI ON FACILITY: Facility that includes equipment which supports
the transmission and/or receipt of electromagnetic/radio signals.
Telecommunication facilities include cellular radiotelephone service
facilities, personal communications service facilities (including wireless
internet), specialized mobile radio service facilities, and commercial paging
service facilities. Components of these types of facilities can consist of the
following: antennas, repeaters, microwave dishes, horns, and other types of
equipment for the transmission or receipt of the signals, telecommunication
towers or similar structures supporting the equipment, equipment structures,
parking area, and other necessary development.
TEMPLE: See definition for “Place of Assembly.”
TENTATIVE MAP: A map made for the purpose of showing the design and improvement
of a proposed division of land and the existing conditions in and around it and
required to be presented to the community development department in order to
officially commence the process of dividing the land in compliance with Title
11 (Subdivision Regulations) of the Reedley Municipal Code.
TOWING YARD: A commercial establishment providing for the storage of operative
or inoperative vehicles. Includes parcels used for parking towaways,
impounding, repossession, and storage (excluding personal storage) for buses
and recreational vehicles, but does not include vehicle dismantling.
TRADE SCHOOL: See definition for “School, Technical and Vocational.”
TRAILOR, UTILITY: A vehicle without motive power, designed and constructed to
travel on public thoroughfares in compliance with the provisions of the Vehicle
Code, and to be used only for carrying property.
TRAILER SALES LOT: See definition for “Vehicle Sales, New or Used.”
TRANSIT STORAGE: Temporary storage, not to exceed one hundred and eighty (180)
days of any building, structure, personal property, or other thing which is in
the process of being transported from one site to a destination site pursuant
to a contract or other legally binding commitment to deliver such thing at the
destination site. While in transit storage, the object stored shall not be
altered in any way, and buildings or structures shall be secured to prevent
unauthorized entry and habitation.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING: Temporary, supportive accommodation that is intended to
bridge the gap from homelessness to permanent housing by offering structure,
supervision, support, life skills, and in some cases, education, and training.
Transitional housing units are residential uses allowed in all zone districts
that allow residential uses, subject only to those requirements and
restrictions that apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same
zone district.
TRANSIT STATION AND TERMINAL: A rail or light-rail station, ferry terminal, bus
hub, or bus transfer station.
TRAVEL TRAILER: See definition for “Recreational Vehicle.”
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: See definition for “Recreational Vehicle Park.”
TRAVERSE: To pass along or go across.
TRIPLEX: See definition for “Dwelling, three-Unit.” (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.220: “U” DEFINITIONS:
UNIFIED CENTER: A unified group of two (2) or more office, commercial or
industrial uses planned and designed to function as an integral unit on a
single parcel or contiguous parcels and which utilize common off-street parking
and access, landscaping, loading facilities and points of ingress and egress.
Also known as a Shopping Center or Unified Shopping Center.
USABLE SATELLITE SIGNAL: Refers to the quality of reception and is considered a
satellite signal which, when viewed on a conventional television set, is at
least equal in picture quality to that received from local commercial
television stations.
USE: See definition for “Land Use.”
USE, ANCILLARY: See definition for “Land Use, Ancillary.”
USE, CONDITIONAL: See definition for “Land Use, Conditional.”
USE, NONCONFORMING: See definition for “Land Use, Nonconforming.”
UTILITY FACILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Facility supporting public and private
utilities, including, but not limited to electricity, water, and/or natural
gas. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.230: “V” DEFINITIONS:
VEHICLE AND FREIGHT TERMINAL: An establishment where the primary activities are
furnishing services incidental to air, motor freight, and rail transportation,
where freight transferring occurs. This includes freight forwarding services;
freight terminal facilities; joint terminal and service facilities; packing,
crating, inspection, and weighing services; postal service bulk mailing
distribution centers; transportation arrangement services; repair and storage
of vehicles as ancillary activities; truck terminals; and trucking facilities.
VEHICLE FUELING STATION: A commercial establishment selling gasoline, diesel,
alternative fuel, or electricity for the on-site fueling or charging of
vehicles. May include a convenience store and provide secondary services
incidental to fuel or charging services. Does not include the storage or repair
of wrecked vehicles, vehicle rentals, or vehicle repair and service.
VEHICLE RENTAL FACILITY:
   VEHICLE RENTAL, GENERAL: Commercial establishment that rents automobiles,
construction equipment, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, trucks, trailers,
and similar vehicles and equipment, including on-site storage and incidental
maintenance. Sales office shall be located entirely within an enclosed
structure.
   VEHICLE RENTAL, LIMITED: Commercial establishment that rents small vehicles,
including, bicycles, mopeds, scooters, Segways, and similar sized vehicles with
electric power, engines less than one hundred (100) cc, or are human powered.
May also include the maintenance, minor repair, and on-site storage of the
equipment offered for rent when conducted within fully enclosed structure.
   VEHICLE RENTAL, OFFICE ONLY: Commercial establishment that rents
automobiles, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, trucks, and other types of
transportation vehicles that are not stored on-site.
VEHICLE REPAIR AND SERVICE: The repair, servicing, alteration, restoration,
towing, painting, cleaning, or finishing of automobiles, trucks, recreational
vehicles, water vessels, golf carts, and other motor vehicles as a primary use,
including the incidental wholesale and retail sale of vehicle parts as an
accessory use. This includes the following categories:
   VEHICLE REPAIR AND SERVICE, MAJOR: Major repair of automobiles, motorcycles,
recreational vehicles, or trucks including light duty trucks (i.e., gross
vehicle weight of less than ten thousand pounds (10,000 lbs.)) and heavy-duty
trucks (i.e., gross vehicle weights more than ten thousand pounds (10,000
lbs.)). Examples of uses include full-service motor vehicle repair garages;
body and fender shops; brake shops; machine shops; paint shops; and
transmission shops.
   VEHICLE REPAIR AND SERVICE, MINOR: Minor repair of automobiles, motorcycles,
recreational vehicles, or light duty trucks, vans, or similar size motor
vehicles (i.e., vehicles that have gross vehicle weights less than ten thousand
pounds (10,000 lbs.)) including detailing services; servicing of cooling,
electrical, fuel and exhaust systems; brake adjustments; relining and repairs;
oil and lube shops; smog shops, tire and battery sales and installation (not
including recapping); and wheel alignment and balancing. Also includes the
service or the repair or installation of vehicle radio/audio equipment.
VEHICLE SALES, NEW OR USED: The retail sales of more than one, new or used,
automobile. It may also include the retail sales of other vehicles such as
vans, pickup trucks, and sports utility vehicles (SUVs), typically purchased
for personal use and/or transportation, and may include commercially rated
vehicles. This definition may also include as ancillary uses: repair and
service to vehicles for sale on the subject site when conducted entirely within
an enclosed structure, and automotive detailing.
VEHICLE SALVAGE AND DISMANTLING FACILITY: Outdoor commercial establishment
primarily engaged in assembling, breaking up, sorting, and the temporary
storage and distribution of recyclable or reusable scrap and waste materials
from vehicles. Includes incidental wholesale or retail sales of parts from
those vehicles.
VENDING UNIT: A commercially manufactured, motorized mobile self-contained food
unit in which ready-to-eat food is cooked, wrapped, packaged, processed, or
portioned for service, sale, or distribution.
VENDOR: The owner agent/operator of the “vending unit.”
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP: A tentative subdivision map or tentative parcel map
which meets the City ordinances, standards, and policies in effect at the time
of its approval and on its approval confers a vested right on the subdivider to
proceed in substantial compliance with ordinances, policies and standards in
effect at the time the City determines the application for approval of the map
is complete. At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, it shall have the
words “vesting tentative map” conspicuously printed on its face.
VETERINARY CLINIC:
   VETERINARY CLINIC, WITH BOARDING SERVICES: A commercial establishment
providing medical care or surgical treatment for domestic animals and household
pets with all such operations being conducted wholly within a building. The
establishment also serves as a facility where animals can be kept for
commercial purposes within an enclosed structure beyond a short time incidental
to medical care. Facility uses may additionally include breeding, buying,
selling, renting, exhibiting, or training of animals.
   VETERINARY CLINIC, WITHOUT BOARDING SERVICES: A commercial establishment
providing medical care or surgical treatment for domestic animals and household
pets with all such operations being conducted wholly within a building. Use as
a kennel shall be limited to short time boarding incidental to medical care and
within an enclosed structure.
VISUAL OBSTRUCTION: Any fence, hedge, tree, shrub, wall, or structure exceeding
three feet (3') in height, measured from the crown of intersecting or
intercepting streets, alleys or driveways, which limits the visibility of
persons in motor vehicles on said streets, alleys or driveways. This does not
include trees kept trimmed of branches below a minimum height of seven feet
(7'). (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.240: “W” DEFINITIONS:
WALL: Any structure or device approved by the Director designed to prevent the
passage of light, air, and vision, and substantially reduce noise levels.
WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITY: A building or buildings used for the
storage of goods, of any type, when such building or buildings contain more
than five hundred (500) square feet of storage space, and where no retail
operation is conducted.
WET BAR: An area within a dwelling unit, other than a kitchen, which is used
for the preparation and serving of beverages. Shall contain a sink and at least
one of the following: refrigerator, ice maker, blending appliance(s), electric
kettle(s), or coffee maker.
WILDLIFE PRESERVE: A site with wildlife habitat and other environmental
resources intended to be preserved in their natural state.
WHOLESALING: The selling of any type of goods for the purpose of resale. (Ord.
2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.250: “X” DEFINITIONS:
Reserved. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.260: “Y” DEFINITIONS:
YARD: An area between a parcel line and a required setback, unobstructed and
unoccupied from the ground upward, except for projections permitted by this
Zoning Code. See Section 27.20.040 (Setback Measurement and Exceptions).
   FRONT YARD: An area extending across the full width of the parcel between
the front parcel line and the required front yard setback.
   REAR YARD: An area extending the full width of the parcel between a rear
parcel line and the required rear yard setback.
   SIDE YARD: An area extending from the front yard to the rear yard between
the nearest side parcel line and the required side yard setback. (Ord. 2024-
001, 9-10-2024)
10.120.270: “Z” DEFINITIONS:
ZONE(ING) DISTRICT: A zone district established by this zoning code. Also
referred to as zoning designation. (Ord. 2024-001, 9-10-2024)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 11.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11.02.010: Title
11.02.020: Purpose And Intent
11.02.030: Definitions
11.02.040: Interpretation And Application
11.02.050: Review Authority
11.02.010: TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited as the Reedley Subdivision
Ordinance. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.02.020: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this Title to regulate the division of land, supplement
the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, promote orderly development, ensure
compliance with zoning and building regulations, promote the health, safety,
and welfare, and implement the General Plan of the City. Further, this Title is
intended to provide, among other things:
   A.   Adequate access to all lots or parcels created by the division of land.
   B.   A safe and efficient traffic circulation system.
   C.   Subdivision design and improvements that will not adversely affect the
values or enjoyment of nearby properties.
   D.   Adequate street rights of way, easements, and other public and private
improvements.
   E.   Water supply that is adequate for planned land uses and fire
protection.
   F.   Adequate systems for sewage disposal and storm water drainage.
   G.   Protection of natural features and resources.
   H.   A pleasant environment for living and working.
   I.   Integrated community development.
   J.   Encouragement of alternative forms of transportation.
   K.   Efficient development patterns to conserve agricultural lands. (Ord.
2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.02.030: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases used in this Title shall have the meanings set forth in this
Section. These definitions shall apply in addition to those stated in Title 10,
Article 8 of the Zoning Code (Definitions).
               For the purposes of Section 66415 of the Subdivision Map Act, the advisory agency
ADVISORY       shall be the Planning Commission, except where such duties and authorities are
AGENCY:        expressly delegated to another person or body by the other provisions of this
               title.
ALLEY:         Any public or private way intended for vehicles, servicing the rear or the side
               of property served by a street.
               A person submitting a tentative subdivision map, tentative parcel map or final
APPLICANT:     map to the Community Development Department, or requesting any other approval,
               determination or permit pursuant to this title.
BUILDING       The Building Division of the Community Development Department or the officer of
DIVISION:      the City or other agency charged with enforcement of the Building Code.
CIVIL          A civil engineer who is registered by the State of California.
ENGINEER:
COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT    The director of the Community Development Department for the City.
DIRECTOR OR
DIRECTOR:
               Being in actual contact with or touching along a boundary or at a point. Units of
CONTIGUOUS:    land may be separated by facilities, roads, streets, utility easements, railroads
               rights-of-way and other similar facilities.
COUNTY         The County Recorder of the County of Fresno, California.
RECORDER:
DEDICATION:    A transfer by a subdivider of title or any other interest in property to the City
               or other public entity, or to a public utility.
DEPARTMENT:    The Community Development Department of the City.
               A.   Street alignments, grades and widths;
               B.   Drainage and sanitary facilities and utilities, including alignments and
               grades thereof;
               C.   Location and size of all required easements and rights-of-way;
               D.   Fire roads and firebreaks;
               E.   Lot size and configuration;
DESIGN:     F.   Traffic access;
               G.   Grading;
               H.   Land to be dedicated for park or recreational purposes; and
               I.   Other specific physical requirements in the plan and configuration of the
               entire subdivision that are necessary to ensure consistency with, or
               implementation of, the general plan or any applicable specific plan as required
               pursuant to Section 66473.5.
               The uses to which the land which is the subject of a map shall be put, the
DEVELOPMENT:   structures to be constructed on it, and all alterations of the land and
               construction incident thereto.
               A right of way offered or dedicated to the city or other public entity or a
EASEMENT:      public utility for purposes of providing access to a division of land, for
               placing utilities, or for any other specified purpose.
FINAL PARCEL   An official parcel map filed for record with the County Recorder in compliance
MAP:           with this Title and the Subdivision Map Act, evidence of division of land.
FINAL          An official subdivision map filed for record with the County Recorder in
SUBDIVISION    compliance with this Title and the Subdivision Map Act, evidencing division of
MAP:           land. Also referred to as Tract Map.
               The official comprehensive General Plan of the City, in compliance with State
GENERAL PLAN:  planning and zoning law, which sets forth its major policies, guidelines and
               regulations for orderly long term physical development of the City.
               Refers to any street work and utilities to be installed, or agreed to be
               installed, by the subdivider on the land to be used for public or private
               streets, highways, ways, and easements, as are necessary for the general use of
               the lot owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood traffic and drainage
IMPROVEMENT:   needs as a condition precedent to the approval and acceptance of the final map
               thereof. Improvement also refers to any other specific improvements or types of
               improvements, the installation of which, either by the subdivider, by public
               agencies, by private utilities, by any other entity approved by the local agency,
               or by a combination thereof, is necessary to ensure consistency with, or
               implementation of, the General Plan or any applicable specific plan.
IMPROVEMENT    The plans, profiles, cross sections, and specifications for all proposed
PLANS:         improvements.
IMPROVEMENT    The requirements for design and construction of improvements established by the
STANDARDS:     City Council as set forth in the "Standard Specifications" and "Standard Plans"
               of the City.
MAJOR ARTERIAL An arterial street designed and constructed, or required to be designed and
STREET:        constructed, according to the criteria and improvement standards in Subsection
               11.12.150 (Rights-of-Way and Improvements Standards) of this Chapter.
MERGER:        The joining of two (2) or more contiguous parcels or units of land held by the
               same owner.
PLANNING       The Planning Commission duly appointed by the City Council and serving as the
COMMISSION OR  advisory agency for purposes of this Title.
COMMISSION:
               Any unit or units of improved or unimproved land not divided for the purposes of
REMAINDER:     sale, lease, or finance and designated as a remainder by a subdivider for
               purposes of section 66424.6 of the Subdivision Map Act.
SIDEWALK,      A sidewalk built adjacent to the curb.
MONOLITHIC:
SIDEWALK,      A sidewalk built sufficiently away from the curb in order to have a landscaped
PARKWAY:       strip between the curb and sidewalk.
SOIL           A detailed soil analysis and report, as required by Health and Safety Code
INVESTIGATION: section 17954, which shall recommend corrective action (if any) to prevent
               "structural defects" as herein defined, and which is made by a civil engineer.
SOIL PROBLEM:  Critically expansive soils, soil fills, or other soil problems which might lead
               to "structural defects" as defined in this Title.
               A preliminary soil analysis and report, as required by the Health and Safety
SOIL REPORT:   Code, covering in addition all soil fills and any soil problem that might lead to
               "structural defects" as defined in this Title, and which is made by a civil
               engineer.
STREET,        A street that is used or is intended to be used for the principal purpose of
COLLECTOR:     collecting traffic from local streets and transferring it to arterial streets or
               highways.
STREET, CUL-   A street that terminates in a permanent turnaround and which by design is not
DE-SAC:        intended to continue beyond its terminal point.
STREET,        A right of way dedicated to the city and legally accepted by the City Council for
DEDICATED:     public use as a street.
STREET,        A street that is used or is intended to be used as the principal route of traffic
ARTERIAL:      flow, connecting areas of major traffic generation to highways and County roads.
STREET, LOCAL: A street that is used or is intended to be used for the principal purpose of
               serving as access to abutting properties.
STREET,        Any street approved by the City Council for street purposes that is privately
PRIVATE:       owned and maintained, which has not been dedicated or accepted as a public street
               and which connects parcels or lots with a public street.
STREET,        Any street which is dedicated or proposed to be dedicated for public use and is
PUBLIC:        maintained or proposed to be maintained by the City, County, or State.
STREET, STUB:  A street which terminates at the boundary line of a subdivision but is intended
               and designed to be extended later to provide access to abutting parcels or lots.
STRUCTURAL     Defects or damage caused in any structure or improvement that is required to be,
DEFECTS:       or which may be, made in subdivisions.
               A person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association who proposes to divide,
SUBDIVIDER:    divides, or causes to be divided real property into a subdivision for themselves.
               Employees and consultants or such persons or entities, acting in that capacity,
               are not "subdividers."
               The division, by any subdivider, of any unit or units of improved or unimproved
               land, or any portion thereof, shown on the latest equalized county assessment
               roll as a unit or as contiguous units, for the purpose of sale, lease or
               financing, whether immediate or future. Property shall be considered as
               contiguous units, even if it is separated by streets, utility easements or
SUBDIVISION:   railroad rights of way. Any conveyance of land to a governmental agency, public
               entity, public utility or subsidiary of a public utility for conveyance to that
               public utility for rights of way shall not be considered a division of land for
               purposes of computing the number of parcels. For purposes of the preceding
               sentence, any conveyance of land to a governmental agency shall include a fee
               interest, an easement, or a license.
SUBDIVISION    This Title 11, as amended from time to time.
ORDINANCE:
SUBDIVISION    Government Code Division 2 of Title 7, commencing with Section 66410, as amended
MAP ACT:       from time to time.
TEMPORARY      A paved area for turning vehicles at the end of a dead end street, which is
TURNAROUND:    constructed either within the dedicated right of way or upon a temporary easement
               and which is intended to be replaced or removed after a period of time.
               A map made for the purpose of showing the design and improvement of a proposed
               division of land and the existing conditions in and around it and required to be
TENTATIVE MAP: presented to the Community Development Department to officially commence the
               process of dividing the land in compliance with the requirements of this Title
               and the Subdivision Map Act.
               A map made for the purpose of showing the design and improvement of a proposed
TENTATIVE      division of land and the existing conditions in and around it and required to be
PARCEL MAP:    presented to the department to officially commence the process of dividing land
               in accordance with the requirements of this Title and the Subdivision Map Act.
               A tentative subdivision map or tentative parcel map which meets the City
               ordinances, standards, and policies in effect at the time of its approval and on
VESTING        its approval confers a vested right on the subdivider to proceed in substantial
TENTATIVE MAP: compliance with ordinances, policies, and standards in effect at the time the
               City determines the application for approval of the map is complete. At the time
               a vesting tentative map is filed, it shall have the words "vesting tentative map"
               conspicuously printed on its face. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
 
11.02.040: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Hierarchy of Regulatory Standards. Where this Title imposes greater
restrictions or regulations than are imposed or required by an existing
ordinance, deed restriction, covenant, easement or agreement between parties,
this Title shall prevail to the extent allowed by law.
   B.   Inconsistencies Between this Title and State Law. Where inconsistencies
are found to exist between this Title and State law or the Subdivision Map Act,
State law and the Subdivision Map Act shall control the use, development, and
subdivision of land until the City Council amends this Title to achieve
consistency with State law and the Subdivision Map Act.
   C.   Severability, Partial Invalidation of Subdivision Ordinance. If any
section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Title is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this Title. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
passed this Title and adopted this Title and each section, sentence, clause, or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
   D.   Applicability. The regulations established in this Title apply to all
subdivisions, lot line adjustments, voluntary parcel mergers, condominium
conversions, and reversions to acreage within the City, and to the preparation
of subdivision maps and other maps provided for by the Subdivision Map Act.
Each subdivision of land, lot line adjustment, voluntary parcel merger,
condominium conversion, and reversion to acreage within the City shall comply
with this Title.
   E.   Exception. In compliance with Section 66412.5 of the Subdivision Map
Act the requirements established in this Title shall not apply to subdivisions
of four (4) parcels or less for construction of removable commercial buildings
having a floor area of less than one hundred (100) square feet.
   F.   Terminology. When used in this Title, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   Language. When used in this Subdivision Ordinance, the word "shall"
is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word "should" is not mandatory
but is strongly recommended. The word "may" is permissive.
      2.   Tense. The present tense includes the past and future tenses; and
the future tense includes the present.
      3.   Number. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the natural construction of the word indicates otherwise.
      4.   Conjunctions.  When used in this Subdivision Ordinance "and"
indicates that all connected items or provisions shall apply. "Or" indicates
that the connected items or provisions may apply singly or in any combination.
"Either…or" indicates that the connected items and provisions shall apply
singly but not in combination. "Includes" and "including" shall mean
"including, but not limited to."
      5.   Local Reference. The word "City" as used in this Subdivision
Ordinance shall mean the City of Reedley and all public officials, bodies, and
agencies referenced in this Subdivision Ordinance are those of the City, unless
otherwise specified.
   G.   Definitions. All terms used in this Subdivision Ordinance shall be
defined in Section
11.02.030  (Definitions) of this Title and/or as determined/interpreted by the
Community Development Director.
   H.   Amendments. Amendments to this Title shall be made in compliance with
Title 10, Chapter 110  (Amendments) of the Zoning Code. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
11.02.050: REVIEW AUTHORITY:
   A.   Community Development Director. The Community Development Director
shall receive, process, and review all tentative map applications, prepare
staff reports and recommend approval, conditional approval, or disapproval
based upon the design, improvement, and land use proposed by the subdivider.
The Director shall make their recommendation to the Planning Commission and
shall be based upon:
      1.   Compliance with the General Plan;
      2.   Concept evaluation of development;
      3.   Parcel size, design, and suitability for intended use;
      4.   Location of school, park sites, and other public facilities;
      5.   Compatibility with the Zoning Code;
      6.   Location, size, and serviceability of open space; and
      7.   Compliance with the City's established policies.
      8.   The Director shall act as a liaison for processing of tentative maps
or tentative parcel maps and final maps or final parcel maps.
   B.   Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall be responsible for
approval, conditional approval or disapproval of tentative maps and tentative
parcel maps.
   C.   City Council. The City Council shall have final decision in the
approval of final maps and final parcel maps and related improvement agreements
and the acceptance by the City of lands and/or improvements as may be offered
for dedication. The City Council shall have final decision in the upholding or
denial of an appeal of the decision of the Planning Commission.
   D.   City Engineer. The City Engineer shall recommend approval, conditional
approval, or disapproval of final maps based upon improvements and facilities
proposed by the subdivider upon good engineering practices, and upon the
design, location, operation, use and maintenance of improvements. (Ord. 2024-
002, 9-20-2024)
CHAPTER 11.04
TENTATIVE AND FINAL MAPS
SECTION:
11.04.010: When Tentative, Vesting Tentative Maps, And Final Maps Required
11.04.020: Map Preparation
11.04.030: Preliminary Review And Pre-application
11.04.040: Application Filing
11.04.050: Determination Of Completeness
11.04.060: Application Processing
11.04.070: Public Noticing
11.04.080: Planning Commission Action
11.04.090: Appeals
11.04.100: Minor Modifications
11.04.110: Expiration Of Tentative Map Approval
11.04.120: Extensions
11.04.130: Improvements
11.04.140: Final Map
11.04.150: Multiple Final Maps
11.04.160: Final Map Application
11.04.170: Final Map Description And Contents
11.04.180: City Engineer Review
11.04.190: Community Development Director Review
11.04.200: City Council Action
11.04.210: Recordation Of Final Map
11.04.220: Notice Of Completion
11.04.010: WHEN TENTATIVE, VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS, AND FINAL MAPS REQUIRED:
   A.   Tentative, Vesting Tentative Map, and Final Map. A tentative or vesting
tentative map and final map shall be required for all subdivisions creating
five (5) or more parcels or five (5) or more condominiums, except if:
      1.   The land before division contains less than five (5) acres, each
parcel created by the division abuts upon a maintained public street or highway
and no dedications or improvements are required by the City Council;
      2.   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of twenty (20)
acres or more and has an approved access to a maintained public street or
highway;
      3.   The land consists of a parcel or parcels of land having approved
access to a public street or highway which comprises a tract of land zoned for
industrial or commercial development, and which has the approval of the City
Council as to street alignments and widths;
      4.   Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of not less
than 40 acres or is not less than a quarter of a quarter section; or
      5.   The land being subdivided is solely for the creation of an
"environmental subdivision" as defined and established in Section 66418.2 of
the Subdivision Map Act.
   B.   Parcel Map. A parcel map shall be required for those subdivisions
described in Sections A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, and A.5 of Section 11.04.0140 (Land
Division) in compliance with this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.020: MAP PREPARATION:
The tentative map shall be prepared by or under the direction of a registered
civil engineer or licensed land surveyor. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.030: PRELIMINARY REVIEW AND PREAPPLICATION:
Before submitting a tentative map application, the subdivider may schedule a
preapplication meeting with the Community Development Director to discuss the
proposed subdivision. At the preapplication meeting, the subdivider shall have
an opportunity to discuss physical conditions, facts, and policies affecting
the proposed subdivision. The subdivider may also present for review a
preliminary map showing approximate lot lines, proposed street alignments, or
other features of the proposed subdivision. The Director shall inform the
subdivider of the City policies, general plan, zoning, fees, infrastructure,
and development standards which may pertain to the proposed subdivision and may
make recommendations concerning modifications to improvement and design of the
proposed subdivision. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.040: APPLICATION FILING:
A tentative map and tentative map application shall be submitted to the
Community Development Director in the format and number of copies specified by
the Director. The application shall contain all the information specified for
the application by the Director unless the Director waives any of the
information requirements. The application shall be accompanied by the fee
established by the Master Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.050: DETERMINATION OF COMPLETENESS:
   A.   The application for a tentative map shall be deemed complete and
accepted for processing only when it conforms to all the requirements of
Section
11.04.040 (Application Filing) of this Title. Within thirty (30) working days
(excluding City recognized holidays) after the application is submitted, the
Community Development Director shall determine whether the application,
including all submitted materials, is complete and shall notify the applicant
of the determination in writing, including (if appropriate) a description of
why the application is incomplete and any additional information that may be
required. Upon receipt of any resubmittal of the application, a new thirty
(30)-day review period shall begin.
   B.   If the Community Development Director determines that the application,
including the submitted materials, is not complete, the applicant may appeal
such determination to the Planning Commission. The appeal shall be filed in
writing with the Director within ten (10) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) after notice of the Director's determination. The Planning
Commission shall hear the appeal and give a final written determination on the
appeal within forty-five(45) working days (excluding City recognized holidays)
after the Director's receipt of the applicant's appeal. Public noticing of the
appeal hearing shall conform to all the requirements of Section
11.04.070 (Public Noticing) of this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.060: APPLICATION PROCESSING:
After the application is determined to be complete and is accepted, the
Community Development Director shall proceed as follows:
   A.   Forward copies of the tentative map to affected agencies within five
(5) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) asking them to provide
their input or comments within fifteen (15) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays).
   B.   Forward copies of the application to the affected school districts
within five (5) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) asking them
to provide their input or comments within fifteen (15) working days (excluding
City recognized holidays).
   C.   The Community Development Director shall review the application and any
comments received, prepare written conditions of approval, prepare the staff
report and recommendation on the application, and provide a copy of the report
to the applicant at least three (3) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.070: PUBLIC NOTICING:
Public notifications of a public hearing(s) and environmental assessment shall
comply with the following:
   A.   Publishing, posting, and mailing notice of the proposed environmental
findings in the manner and at the times required by applicable law, including
the California Environmental Quality Act and the regulations issued thereunder.
   B.   Publishing in the local paper a notice of the date, place, and time of
the Planning Commission's meeting in which the public hearing will be held on
the proposed subdivision. This notice shall be published once not less than ten
(10) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) and not more than twenty
(20) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) prior to the hearing.
   C.   Mailing notice of the public hearing to all persons, businesses,
corporations or other public or private entities owning property within three
hundred and fifty feet (350') of the boundaries of the property on which the
subdivision is proposed, as shown on the latest equalized roll in the office of
the Fresno County assessor. Such notices shall be mailed not less than ten (10)
working days (excluding City recognized holidays) and not more than twenty (20)
working days (excluding City recognized holidays) prior to the hearing.
   D.   Mailing notice of the public hearing to any person who has filed a
written request with the Community Development Director to receive notification
of the public hearing. The City may charge a reasonable fee to persons
requesting notification.
   E.   Any additional method of notice required by law or deemed appropriate
by the Director, including, but not limited to the applicable school district
and applicant. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.080: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall consider the tentative map application,
the staff report, and other pertinent information in its scheduled meeting and
shall hold a public hearing after the acceptance of the complete application by
the Community Development Director as provided in Section
11.04.040 (Application Filing) of this Chapter. After the public hearing is
closed, the Planning Commission shall do the following:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall review the environmental assessment of
the applicant's proposal and act in compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act.
      2.   If the Planning Commission acts on an environmental assessment in
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act, it shall then
approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the tentative subdivision map
within fifty (50) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) after such
action. The environmental assessment and the tentative subdivision map may be
acted upon at the same meeting as long as the environmental assessment is acted
upon first.
      3.   The Planning Commission shall report in writing to the subdivider
through an adopted resolution the approval, conditional approval or
disapproval, and the conditions on which such action is based.
      4.   A tentative map shall be approved or conditionally approved by the
Planning Commission only if all requirements of this Title and other applicable
Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and policies of the City Council
are complied with or can be met by compliance with specified conditions.
      5.   The Planning Commission shall disapprove a tentative map if it makes
any of the following findings:
         a.   That the proposed tentative map is not consistent with the
General Plan or any applicable specific plan as specified in Government Code
section 65451.
         b.   That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with the General Plan or any applicable specific plan.
         c.   That the site of the proposed subdivision is not physically
suitable for the type of development.
         d.   That the site of the proposed subdivision is not physically
suitable for the proposed density of development.
         e.   That the design of the proposed subdivision is, or the proposed
improvements are likely to cause substantial environmental damage or
substantially and avoidably injure fish or wildlife or their habitat.
         f.   That the design of the proposed subdivision or type of
improvements is likely to cause serious public health problems.
         g.   That the design of the proposed subdivision or the type of
improvements will conflict with easements, acquired by the public at large, for
access through or use of property within the proposed subdivision; provided
that the Planning Commission may approve the tentative map if it finds that
alternate easements for access or use will be provided, and that these will be
substantially equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public. This
subsection shall apply only to easements of record or to easements established
by judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, and no authority is hereby
granted to the Planning Commission to determine that the public at large has
acquired easements for access through or use of property within the proposed
subdivision.
         h.   That the tentative map fails to meet or perform any of the
requirements or conditions imposed by the subdivision map act or this Title;
provided, that such disapproval shall be accompanied by a finding identifying
the requirements or conditions which have not been met or performed.
         i.   That in compliance with Government Code Section 66473.1, the
design of the proposed subdivision will not provide, to the extent feasible,
for future passive or natural heating or cooling opportunities in the
subdivision.
   B.   The Planning Commission's decision shall be final on the eleventh
working day (excluding City recognized holidays) from the date of the Planning
Commission's action, but become advisory if, within such ten (10) working days
(excluding City recognized holidays) period, an appeal is filed in compliance
with Section
11.04.090 (Appeals) of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.090: APPEALS:
   A.   Filing of Appeal. The subdivider, a member of the City Council or any
interested person adversely affected may appeal any action of the Planning
Commission with respect to the tentative map to the City Council. The appeal
shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk within ten (10) working days
(excluding City recognized holidays) after the action of the Planning
Commission. The written appeal shall include the following information:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the person
appealing the decision.
      2.   Address, entitlement number(s), and/or description of the subject
property concerned.
      3.   In reasonable detail, each reason why the appellant claims that the
Planning Commission's action was inappropriate, the facts the appellant claims
support each reason, and the remedy the appellant is requesting.
      4.   A filing fee as established by the Master Fee Schedule. The City of
Reedley shall be made exempt from the filing fee requirement.
      5.   The City Clerk shall not accept an appeal submitted late or which
does not contain all information required by this subsection.
   B.   Hearing Procedure; City Council Action.
      1.   Upon receipt of an appeal meeting all the requirements of Subsection
A of this Section, the City Council shall set the matter for hearing. The
hearing shall be held within forty-five (45) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) after the filing of the appeal.
      2.   At least ten (10) working days (excluding City recognized holidays)
before the date set for the appeal hearing, the Community Development Director
shall give written notice of the hearing in the manner specified by Government
Code section 65090 and, in addition, by personal delivery or first class United
States mail to the subdivider and the appellant (if other than the subdivider).
The notice shall include the date, time and place of the public hearing.
      3.   The hearing shall be limited to those reasons stated in the written
appeal and the notice as the appellant's basis for disapproving or modifying
the Planning Commission's decision or other action. At the hearing, the
appellant shall have the burden of presenting to the City Council evidence in
support of those reasons and the remedy the appellant is requesting.
Thereafter, the burden shall shift to those persons opposed to the appeal to
present evidence to the City Council in support of their positions. Both
written and oral evidence may be presented at the hearing. After all evidence
and testimony has been presented, the hearing shall be closed.
      4.   Within ten (10) working days (excluding City recognized holidays)
following the conclusion of the public hearing, the City Council shall render
its decision on the appeal, based on all the evidence in the record, including
all written and oral evidence and testimony presented to the City Council at
the hearing or to the Planning Commission. The City Council may sustain,
modify, or overrule the action(s) appealed from. The City Council's decision
shall comply with and include all findings required by applicable provisions of
the Subdivision Map Act, this Title and other applicable State and local laws,
ordinances, and regulations. Each finding shall be supported by substantial
evidence in the record. The City Council shall sustain disapproval of a
tentative map, or shall overrule approval or conditional approval of a
tentative map, if it makes any of the following findings:
         a.   That the proposed tentative map is not consistent with the
General Plan or any applicable specific plans as specified in Government Code
section 65451.
         b.   That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with the General Plan or any applicable specific plan.
         c.   That the site of the proposed subdivision is not physically
suitable for the type of development.
         d.   That the site of the proposed subdivision is not physically
suitable for the proposed density of development.
         e.   That the design of the proposed subdivision is or the proposed
improvements are likely to cause substantial environmental damage or
substantially and avoidably injure fish or wildlife or their habitat.
         f.   That the design of the proposed subdivision or type of
improvements is likely to cause serious public health problems.
         g.   That the design of the proposed subdivision or the type of
improvements will conflict with easements, acquired by the public at large, for
access through or use of property within the proposed subdivision; provided
that the City Council may approve the tentative map if it finds that alternate
easements for access or use will be provided, and that these will be
substantially equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public. This
Subsection shall apply only to easements of record or to easements established
by judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, and no authority is hereby
granted to the City Council to determine that the public at large has acquired
easements for access through or use of property within the proposed
subdivision.
         h.   That the tentative map fails to meet or perform any of the
requirements or conditions imposed by the Subdivision Map Act or this title;
provided that such disapproval shall be accompanied by a finding identifying
the requirements or conditions which have not been met or performed.
         i.   That in compliance with Government Code Section 66473.1, the
design of the proposed subdivision will not provide, to the extent feasible,
for future passive or natural heating or cooling opportunities in the
subdivision.
      5.   The decision of the City Council shall be final. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-
20-2024)
11.04.100: MINOR MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this Section is to provide a process
by which applicants can request a minor modification to the standards
established in this Title. It is the intent of this Section to provide
flexibility in standards which would otherwise preclude development or
subdivision.
   B.   Review Authority. The Community Development Director shall be the
review authority for minor modifications to the standards established in this
Title. The Director shall accept, process, act on, or defer action to each
minor modification request submitted.
   C.   Processing, Filing, and Review. A request for a minor modification
shall be submitted in writing to the Community Development Director on the
approved form prescribed by the Director.
   D.   Findings. The Community Development Director shall find that the
granting of the minor modification will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to property and improvements in the area in which
the property is located and will not be in contradiction of the objectives of
this Subdivision Ordinance, State law, or the Subdivision Map Act. (Ord. 2024-
002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.110: EXPIRATION OF TENTATIVE MAP APPROVAL:
   A.   Except as provided in Section
11.04.090 (Appeals) of this Chapter, the approval or conditional approval of a
tentative map shall expire twenty-four (24) months after the date of approval
by the Planning Commission or, if applicable, the City Council.
   B.   Once a final map of all or any portion of the real property included
within the tentative map is submitted to the City Engineer, subsequent actions
of the City, including, but not limited to, processing, approving, and
recording, may lawfully occur after the date of expiration of the tentative
map.
   C.   If multiple final maps are to be filed for the subdivision pursuant to
Section 11.040.140 (Multiple Final Maps) of this Chapter, or if the subdivider
is required to spend more than two hundred and thirty-six thousand seven
hundred and ninety dollars ($236,790.00) or any greater amount in compliance
with Section 66452.6 of the Subdivision Map Act to construct, improve, or
finance the construction of public improvements outside the property boundaries
of the tentative map, excluding improvements of public rights of way which abut
the property to be subdivided and which are reasonably related to the
development of the property, each filing of a final map shall extend the
expiration of the approved or conditionally approved tentative map by forty-
eight (48) months from the date of its expiration, or the date of the
previously filed final map, whichever is later, but in no event more than ten
(10) years from such approval or conditional approval.
   D.   The period of time specified in Subsection A or B of this Section,
including any extension granted pursuant to this section, shall not include any
time during which a development moratorium, imposed after approval or
conditional approval of the tentative map, is in effect. However, the length of
the moratorium shall not exceed five (5) years.
   E.   The period of time specified in Subsection A or B of this Section,
including any extension granted in compliance with this Section, shall not
include any time during which a lawsuit involving the approval or conditional
approval of the tentative map is or was pending in a court of competent
jurisdiction. After service of the initial petition or complaint in the lawsuit
upon the City, the subdivider may apply in writing to the Community Development
Director for a stay. Within forty (40) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) after receiving the application, the Director shall in writing either
stay the time period for up to five (5) years or deny the requested stay.
   F.   Expiration of an approved or conditionally approved tentative map shall
terminate all proceedings, and no final map of all or any portion of real
property included within the tentative map shall be filed without first
processing a new tentative map application. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.120: EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Filing Of Application. Prior to the expiration of an approved or
conditionally approved tentative map, the subdivider may file a written
application for an extension with the Community Development Director. Upon
timely filing and receipt of this application, the approval of the tentative
map shall automatically be extended for sixty (60) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) or until the application for the extension is approved,
conditionally approved, or denied, whichever occurs first.
   B.   Required Information for Application for Extension.
      1.   The subdivider's application for time extension shall include the
following information in reasonable detail:
         a.   Name, address, daytime phone number, and e-mail address of the
applicant.
         b.   Tentative map number and/or County tract number of the subject
subdivision.
         c.   Requested period of extension (not exceeding twelve (12) months).
         d.   Reasons for seeking extension, including facts showing why the
requirements for recording a final map cannot be completed within the period
provided.
         e.   A description of all efforts made to date to record the final map
and the current status of the project.
         f.   A description of what remains to be done to record the final map
and what steps the subdivider proposes to complete the required subdivision
improvements.
      2.   At the time an extension application is submitted, the applicant
shall submit the filing fee in the amount established by the Master Fee
Schedule.
   C.   Staff Review. Within thirty (30) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) after an extension application is filed, the Community
Development Director shall review the application and make its findings and
recommendation for the Planning Commission's consideration.
   D.   Planning Commission Action. The Planning Commission shall consider the
extension application at its next regular meeting at which the application may
be legally scheduled. Notice of a public hearing shall not be required. The
Planning Commission may grant an extension for such period as it determines
appropriate, provided no individual extension shall exceed twelve (12) months
and the total number of extensions shall not exceed six years. Such extension
shall be in addition to the periods of time provided in Subsection
11.04.090  (Appeals) of this Chapter. In granting the extension, the Planning
Commission may add or amend conditions based on any changed circumstances or
new city policies or standards. If the Planning Commission denies the request,
the subdivider may appeal to the City Council, by filing a written appeal with
the City Clerk within ten (10) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) after the Planning Commission's denial. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.130: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The subdivider shall submit to the City Engineer subdivision
improvement plans, the subdivider's engineer's estimated cost of improvements,
and a deposit toward the plan check fee and construction inspection of public
improvements fee as established by the Master Fee Schedule, for all
improvements required by the Reedley Municipal Code, City policies, the
Standard Plans and Specifications of the City, and the conditions of approval.
All subdivision improvement plans shall be prepared by a registered civil
engineer.
   The subdivision improvement plans shall include the design for all public
utilities, electric, gas, telephone, and cable television.
   B.   The City Engineer will review the improvement plans based on sound
engineering practices, design standards and applicable City policies and to
ensure conformance with the City improvement standards. The Community
Development Director will review the improvement plans to determine substantial
compliance with the approved tentative map, conditions of approval and the
General Plan of the City and any applicable specific plans. Comments, if any,
shall be forwarded to the subdivider in a timely manner. All improvement plans
shall in any event be acted on within sixty (60) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) after submittal, except that at least fifteen (15) working
days (excluding City recognized holidays) shall be provided for processing any
resubmitted improvement plans. These time limits may be extended by mutual
consent of the subdivider and the City Engineer. The sixty (60) working days
(excluding City recognized holidays) period shall not include any days during
which an improvement plan has been returned for correction, has been under
review by other than the City, or, following such other review, has been
returned to the applicant for correction.
   C.   The original of the final improvement plans shall be submitted to the
Engineering Department for City Engineer approval and signature. Any designs/
plans which are required to be approved by the Community Development Director
in connection with any conditions of approval shall be submitted to them and be
subject to their approval. The subdivider's engineer shall submit to the City
Engineer the approved final improvement plans in a format acceptable to the
City Engineer.
   D.   Prior to approval of the final map, all public improvements shall
either be completed in compliance with approved improvement plans to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer, or, as a condition of final map approval,
the subdivider shall enter into a subdivision improvement agreement with the
City, in the form prepared by and approved by the City, to ensure timely
completion of the improvements at the subdivider's expense.
   E.   Each subdivider entering into a subdivision improvement agreement with
the City shall submit the following information to the City Engineer. This
information shall be prepared and certified by a registered civil engineer:
      1.   List of uncompleted improvements.
      2.   Unit cost, quantity, and total cost of each unfinished improvement.
   F.   The subdivider shall submit to the City Engineer two (2) copies of the
agreement signed by them along with improvement security in a form specified in
Chapter 5 of the Subdivision Map Act and acceptable to the City Attorney.
Except as otherwise required by Chapter 5 of the Subdivision Map Act, the
amount of the improvement security for faithful performance of the agreement
shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the total estimated cost of improvements
and additional security for payment to the contractor, subcontractors and
persons furnishing labor, material or equipment for the improvements, in the
amount of fifty percent (50%) of the total estimated cost of the improvements.
Before acceptance of the subdivision improvements, the subdivider also shall
file with the City Engineer a surety bond or certificate of deposit in the
amount of ten percent (10%) of the total estimated cost of the improvements for
the guarantee and warranty of the work for a period of one year following the
completion and acceptance of improvements against any defective work or labor
done or defective materials furnished.
   G.   Security provided by the applicant pursuant to this section shall be
released as provided in Section 66499.7 of the Subdivision Map Act. (Ord. 2024-
002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.140: FINAL MAP:
Before the expiration of an approved or conditionally approved tentative map,
the subdivider shall cause the real property included within the map, or any
part thereof, to be surveyed and a final map conforming to the approved or
conditionally approved tentative map to be prepared and filed for approval by
the City Council. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.150: MULTIPLE FINAL MAPS:
The subdivider may file multiple final map applications relating to an approved
or conditionally approved tentative map if the subdivider, at the time the
tentative map was filed, informed the Community Development Department of their
intent to file multiple final maps, or after filing of the tentative map, the
Community Development Director, the City Engineer and the subdivider concur to
the phasing of the subdivision and the filing of multiple final maps. The
Director and the City Engineer may impose any reasonable conditions relating to
the filing of multiple final maps. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.160: FINAL MAP APPLICATION:
A final map conforming to the requirements of this Section and Section
11.04.170 (Final Map Description and Contents) of this Chapter and public
improvement plans conforming to the requirements of this Section and Section
11.04.130 (Improvements) of this Chapter shall be submitted to the Engineering
Department in the format and number of copies specified by the City Engineer.
The application shall contain all the information specified for the application
by the City Engineer, unless the City Engineer waives any of the information
requirements. The application shall be accompanied by the fee established by
the Master Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.170: FINAL MAP DESCRIPTION AND CONTENTS:
   A.   Description.
      1.   The final map shall be prepared by or under the direction of a
registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor, shall be based on a
survey, and shall be legibly drawn, printed, or reproduced by a process
guaranteeing a permanent record in black on tracing cloth or polyester base
film. Certificates, affidavits, and acknowledgments may be legibly stamped or
printed upon the map with opaque ink. If ink is used on polyester base film,
the ink surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure permanent
legibility.
      2.   The size of each sheet shall be eighteen inches (18") by twenty-six
inches (26"). A marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet,
leaving an entirely blank margin or one inch. The scale of the map shall be
large enough to show all details clearly, and enough sheets shall be used to
accomplish this end. The number of sheets and the total number of sheets
comprising the map shall be stated on each of the sheets, and its relation to
each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown. Affidavits, certificates,
acknowledgments, endorsements, acceptances of dedication and seals required by
the subdivision map act, by this title or by other provisions of law shall
appear on the first sheet and may be combined where appropriate.
   B.   Survey Required. A complete and accurate field survey of the land to be
subdivided shall be made in conformity with the California Professional Land
Surveyor's Act.
   C.   Information Required.
      1.   Index And Location Map.
         a.   If more than two (2) sheets are used to show the actual layout of
the streets and lots, an index shall be used showing the relationship of the
sheets.
         b.   A location map shall appear on the map, showing the relative
position of the land to be subdivided with the rest of the section or sections
in which it lies and also the surrounding existing subdivisions (if any),
including their names and tract numbers. The location map shall include all
survey information which was necessary to actually set the exterior control
monuments of the new subdivision. The location map shall show City boundaries
crossing or adjoining the subdivision.
         c.   Affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements,
acceptance of dedication and seals required by law, the Subdivision Map Act, by
this title or by other provisions of law shall appear on the first sheet.
      2.   Subdivision Name; Exterior Boundaries. The subdivision name, if one
is used, and the tract number shall conspicuously appear on each sheet of the
final map. On one (1) of the sheets, there shall be a legal description of the
exterior boundaries of the area subdivided. The exterior boundary of the land
to be divided shall be indicated by a border one-eighth of an inch in width.
      3.   Lots And Blocks. Each lot shall be numbered or lettered
consecutively beginning with lot no. 1; except, that when the final map is an
additional phase of an existing subdivision, the lot numbers shall commence
with the next number higher than in the preceding phase. The area of each lot
shall be shown on the final map.
      Blocks, if used, shall be consecutively lettered, or numbered. Each block
and each parcel shall be shown completely on one sheet.
      4.   Public Dedications. The final map shall show the width, location,
and the names (without abbreviation) or other sufficient designation of the
following:
         a.   New streets.
         b.   Public areas and easements.
         c.   Adjoining streets.
         d.   All other existing streets, easements, rights of way and other
real property interests to be dedicated for public purposes.
      5.   Technical Information.
         a.   The dimensions of all lot lines, subdivision perimeter and
centerline of streets shall be shown in feet and decimals thereof to the
nearest one one hundredth of a foot (0.01') and bearings to the nearest second.
If a course is a curve, the radius, length of curve or bearing and length of
chord, and central angle shall be shown. If the ends of a curve are not tangent
to the preceding or following courses and the chord along with its bearing and
length are not shown, the radial of the end of the curve, with its bearing,
shall be shown.
         b.   All required information shall be shown in full for all portions
of the map. No ditto marks shall be used with respect to any required
information.
         c.   The width of each street right of way shall be shown indicating
the widths on each side of the centerline. If additional right of way for an
existing street is offered for dedication, the original right of way and the
additional right of way width offered for dedication shall be shown along with
the total width of the new right of way.
         d.   The final map shall clearly show existing monuments or other
evidence found on the ground to confirm the boundaries of the subdivision. The
corners of adjoining subdivisions or portions thereof shall be indicated on the
final map and ties shown.
         e.   Survey monuments shall be established and shown at the following
locations:
            (1)   Intersection of street centerlines.
            (2)   Beginning and ending of curves or intersection of tangents on
street centerlines.
            (3)   Any other locations required by the City Engineer.
      6.   Record Of Easements. The final map shall show the location, width,
and sidelines of all easements to which the lots are subject. Easements for
storm drains, sewers and other purposes shall be denoted by broken lines. Each
easement shall be clearly labeled and identified, and if already of record,
proper reference to the records shall be given. Easements being offered for
dedication shall be indicated in the statement of dedication.
      7.   Abandonment Of Public Streets and Easements. The final map shall
adequately delineate any public streets or public easements to be left in
effect after the subdivision. The filing of the final map shall constitute
abandonment of all public streets and public easements not shown on the final
map, provided that a written notation of each abandonment is listed by
reference to the recording data or other official record creating these public
streets or public easements and certified on the map by the City Clerk. Before
a public easement vested in another public entity may be abandoned pursuant to
this Subsection, the applicant shall notify the public entity of the proposed
abandonment. The applicant shall submit with the final map written verification
that the public entity has received the notice. No public easement vested in
another public entity shall be abandoned in compliance with this Subsection if
that public entity objects to the proposed abandonment.
   D.   Certificates on Final Map. The final map shall contain or be
accompanied by all certificates required by the Subdivision Map Act. It shall
also contain any other certificates that may be required by the Planning
Commission or City Council.
   E.   Statements on Final Map. The following statements shall be on the final
map or in a separate document or map sheet:
      1.   Owner Statement. Subject to Section 66436 of the subdivision map
act, a statement signed by all parties having record title interest in the land
subdivided, consenting to the preparation and recordation of the map and
dedication to the public of specific parcels or easements.
      2.   Engineer or Surveyor Statement. A statement, signed and sealed by
the engineer or surveyor responsible for preparation of the final map, as
provided in Section 66441 of the Subdivision Map Act.
      3.   City Engineer or City Surveyor Statement. A statement, signed by the
City Engineer and/or City Surveyor, that the map was examined by them and the
subdivision as shown is substantially the same as it appeared on the approved
tentative map and, if required, any approved alterations thereof, and that all
the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act, this Title and any other local
ordinance applicable at the time of approval of the tentative map have been
complied with, and that they are satisfied that the map is technically correct.
      4.   Planning Commission Statement. A statement signed by the secretary
of the Planning Commission, indicating the date of the meeting in which the
tentative map was approved.
      5.   City Clerk Statement. If any real property is offered for dedication
for public use on the final map or by a separate instrument, a statement signed
by the City Clerk on the final map stating that the City Council approved the
map and accepted, accepted subject to improvement, or rejected on behalf of the
public any of the real property offered for dedication. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
11.04.180: CITY ENGINEER REVIEW:
The City Engineer shall review the final map and subsequent submissions of the
map and will recommend approval when they determine that the final map complies
with all requirements of Sections
11.04.160 (Final Map Application) and
11.04.170 (Final Map Description and Contents) of this Chapter. The public
improvement plans shall be subject to review and approval by the City Engineer
prior to acceptance of the final map. The final map shall be reviewed and
subject to acceptance by the City Engineer prior to City Council consideration
of the final map. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.190: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR REVIEW:
The Community Development Director shall review the final map to determine its
substantial conformance with the approved tentative map and the conditions of
approval imposed by the Planning Commission and/or City Council. If the
Director determines that the final map is in substantial conformance with the
approved tentative map, that all conditions of approval have been met or
performed, and that the final map has been recommended for approval by the City
Engineer, the Director shall present it to the City Council with their
recommendation. If a subdivision improvement agreement is proposed, it shall be
presented to the City Council in the same meeting as the final map. (Ord. 2024-
002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.200: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The City Council shall, at the meeting at which it receives the final map or at
its next regular meeting after the meeting at which it receives the final map,
review the final map and approve it if it conforms to the approved or
conditionally approved tentative map and if all requirements and conditions
imposed on the subdivision pursuant to this Title and the Subdivision Map Act
have been met or performed. If the final map does not conform, the City Council
shall disapprove the map; provided that the City Council may waive such
nonconformance and approve the map if the City Council finds that the
nonconformance is the result of a technical and inadvertent error which, in the
determination of the City Council does not materially affect the validity of
the map. The City Council shall take action on any subdivision improvement
agreement related to the subject subdivision prior to taking action on the
final map. If the City Council disapproves the final map, it shall include with
such disapproval a finding identifying the failure(s) to conform and/or
requirements or conditions which have not been met or performed. If the City
Council approves the final map, it shall at the same time accept, accept
subject to improvements, or reject any offer of dedication by the subdivider.
(Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.210: RECORDATION OF FINAL MAP:
   A.   Upon approval of the final map by the City Council, the City Clerk
shall execute the appropriate certificate on the certificate sheet and shall,
pursuant to the provisions of Map Act Section 66464, have an authorized agent
of the City transmit the map to the Fresno County Board of Supervisors for
recordation. The following shall also be transmitted to the Fresno County Board
of Supervisors:
      1.   A title guarantee by a qualified title company, for the benefit of
the City, certifying that the signatures of all persons whose consent is
necessary to pass clear title to the land and all acknowledgments appear on the
proper certificates and are correctly shown on the map and affidavits to a
dedication.
      2.   Fresno County tax compliance certification request.
      3.   All other data, documents and other matters required to be filed
with the city engineer in conjunction with the final map, as may be required by
law. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.04.220: NOTICE OF COMPLETION:
Upon completion and acceptance of the improvements required by a subdivision
improvement agreement, the subdivider shall request the City Engineer to issue
a notice of completion. Unless the subdivision improvement agreement provides a
different time, completion and acceptance of the improvement and filing of the
notice of completion must take place within twenty-four (24)-months of the
signing of the agreement, or a new agreement, improvement security and required
fee shall be provided for the City Council's approval. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
CHAPTER 11.06
VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
SECTION:
11.06.010: Filing And Processing
11.06.020: Rights Of Map
11.06.030: Map Amendments
11.06.040: Minor Modifications
11.06.050: Effect Of Inconsistent Zoning
11.06.060: Concurrent Processing Of Other Permits
11.06.010: FILING AND PROCESSING:
   A.   Whenever a tentative subdivision map or tentative parcel map is
required to be filed, the subdivider may instead file a vesting tentative map.
In such case, the words "vesting tentative map" shall be printed conspicuously
on the face of the map at the time of its filing. Except as expressly provided
otherwise in this Chapter, the filing and processing of a vesting tentative
map, including extension of the term thereof, shall be subject to all
requirements established in
Chapters 11.02 and
11.04 of this Title, as applicable.
   B.   A vesting tentative map shall be filed and processed in the same
manner, form, and content and shall be subject to the same filing fees and time
limits prescribed for a tentative map or tentative parcel map filed under
provisions of
Chapters 11.02 and
11.04 of this Title, except as follows:
      1.   A vesting tentative map shall have the words "vesting tentative map"
printed conspicuously on its face.
      2.   In addition to the information otherwise required for a tentative
map or tentative parcel map, as applicable, a vesting tentative map shall
include the following information to the extent related to the City ordinances,
resolutions or policies specified in Section
11.06.020 (Rights of Map), of this Chapter, to the extent the Community
Development Director deems necessary to enable the City to determine if a
negative declaration is appropriate for the development under the California
Environmental Quality Act or if a mitigated negative declaration or
environmental impact report shall be required.
      3.   Written statements accompanying the map which indicate and describe
how the proposed subdivision has been designed to mitigate any potential
adverse significant effects on the environment, as such effects are defined by
the California Environmental Quality Act, as amended.
      4.   A vesting tentative map shall include a notation of the existing
General Plan planned land use and zone district designation(s) of all
properties to be subdivided.
      5.   A vesting tentative map shall include, if applicable, a notation of
the proposed General Plan planned land use and zone district designation(s) of
all properties to be subdivided.
   C.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, the subdivider shall, if
required by the Community Development Director, also supply the following
information in a separate document or map sheet:
      1.   Height, size, and location of buildings.
      2.   Sewer, water, storm drain and road details.
      3.   Information on the uses to which the buildings will be put.
      4.   Detailed grading plans and geological studies.
      5.   Flood control information.
      6.   Architectural plans.
      7.   Other studies and information normally required by the City at the
Building Permit application stage.
      8.   Other information specified by the department as necessary to comply
with other applicable federal, state, or local requirements. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-
20-2024)
11.06.020: RIGHTS OF MAP:
   A.   Approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map grants the
right to proceed forward in the map application and review process, given the
proposed project complies with all applicable City ordinances, policies, and
standards in effect when the map application is deemed complete. If the city
initiates proceedings to change these ordinances, the updated rules may apply
when approving, conditionally approving, or disapproving the map, provided
proper notice is given.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection A of this Section, the
City may condition or deny a permit, approval, extension, or entitlement if it
makes any of the following determinations:
      1.   A failure to do so would place residents of the subdivision or
parceled land or residents in the immediate community in a condition dangerous
to their health or safety, or both.
      2.   The condition or denial is required to comply with state or Federal
law.
   C.   The rights described in this Section shall expire if a final map or a
final parcel map is not approved by the City prior to the expiration of the
vesting tentative map. If the final map or a final parcel map is approved,
these rights shall last for an initial period of twelve (12) months from the
date of recording of the final map or final parcel map. Where several final
maps or final parcel maps are recorded on various phases of a project covered
by a single vesting tentative map, this initial period shall begin for each
phase when the final map or final parcel map for that phase is recorded.
   D.   Automatic Extensions. The initial time period set forth under
Subsection C of this Section shall be automatically extended by any time
required by the City for the processing of a complete application for a final
parcel map, Grading Permit or for Site Plan Review for all or part of the
development within the proposed subdivision or area covered by the final parcel
map, if such processing exceeds thirty (30) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) from the date that a such complete Grading Permit or Site
Plan Review application is filed.
   E.   Additional One-Year Extensions. At any time prior to the expiration of
the initial period described in Subsection C of this Section, a subdivider may:
      1.   Apply for a one (1)-year extension of such period. An application
for an extension shall be submitted, in writing, to the Community Development
Department and shall state specifically those circumstances which are or were
beyond the ability of the applicant to control and which justify the request.
The applicant shall have the burden of proving justification for the extension
of the initial period. The Planning Commission may approve an application for
an extension, may conditionally approve the application as permitted by law, or
may deny the application.
      2.   If the application for extension is denied or conditionally
approved, the applicant may appeal the denial or conditional approval to the
City Council by filing a written appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10)
working days (excluding City recognized holidays) after the date of the
Planning Commission action. The appeal shall be accompanied by a filing fee as
established by the Master Fee Schedule. The City of Reedley shall be made
exempt from the filing fee requirement. The appeal shall state, in writing,
specifically why the applicant claims there was an error or abuse of discretion
by the Planning Commission or why the Planning Commission's decision is not
supported by the preponderance of the evidence in the record.
      3.   The City Council shall hear the appeal within forty-five (45)
working days (excluding City recognized holidays) after the filing of the
appeal. The applicant and any interested person shall be given an opportunity
to be heard and present evidence. Upon close of the hearing, the City Council
may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the Planning Commission. If the
City Council reverses denial of the extension or modifies conditional approval
of the extension, the City Council shall make findings in support of its
decision.
   F.   If the applicant submits a complete application for a Building Permit
during the periods of time specified under Subsections C through E of this
Section, the rights described in Subsections A and B of this Section shall
continue until the expiration of the permit or any extension of the permit by
the City. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.06.030: MAP AMENDMENTS:
Except as provided in Section
11.04.040 and
11.06.040 of this Title, if the ordinances, policies, or standards of the City
are changed subsequent to the approval or conditional approval of a vesting
tentative map, the subdivider, at any time prior to expiration of the vesting
tentative map, may apply for an amendment to the vesting tentative map to
secure vested rights to proceed with the changed ordinances, policies, or
standards. The application shall be filed, in writing, with the Community
Development Department and shall clearly specify the changed ordinances,
policies, standards for which the amendment is sought. The application shall be
reviewed and processed in the same manner as a vesting tentative map
application (see Section
11.06.040 (Minor Modifications), below). (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.06.040: MINOR MODIFICATIONS:
Minor modifications to the standards established in this Chapter may be granted
in compliance with Section
11.04.100 (Minor Modifications), granted the Community Development Director
makes all necessary findings. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.06.050: EFFECT OF INCONSISTENT ZONING:
Whenever a subdivider files a vesting tentative map for a subdivision whose
intended development is inconsistent with the Zoning Code in existence at that
time, such inconsistency shall be noted on the map. The Planning Commission or
City Council may deny such vesting tentative map or approve it conditioned on
the subdivider, or the subdivider's designee, obtaining the necessary change in
the Zoning Code to eliminate the inconsistency. If the change in the Zoning
Code is obtained, approval or conditional approval of the vesting tentative map
shall confer a vested right to proceed with development, as described in
Section
11.06.020 (Rights of Map), of this Chapter, in substantial compliance with the
change in the Zoning Code and the map as approved. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.06.060: CONCURRENT PROCESSING OF OTHER PERMITS:
If other discretionary land use approvals are required in connection with
development under the vesting tentative map (i.e., Conditional Use Permit), the
subdivider shall obtain such approvals prior to, or process them concurrently
with, the filing of the vesting tentative map. For purposes of this Section,
"discretionary land use approvals" shall include, but not be limited to
applications such as, General Plan Amendments, Rezone, Conditional Use Permits,
and Variances. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
CHAPTER 11.08
PARCEL MAPS
SECTION:
11.08.010: When Tentative And Final Parcel Maps Required
11.08.020: Map Preparation
11.08.030: Preliminary Review And Preapplication
11.08.040: Application Filing
11.08.050: Determination Of Completeness
11.08.060: Application Processing
11.08.070: Public Noticing
11.08.080: Planning Commission Action
11.08.090: Appeals
11.08.100: Minor Modifications
11.08.110: Expiration Of Tentative Parcel Map Approval
11.08.120: Extensions
11.08.130: Improvements
11.08.140: Final Parcel Map Application And Filing
11.08.150: City Engineer Review
11.08.160: Community Development Director Review
11.08.170: Approval Of Final Parcel Map
11.08.180: Recordation Of Final Map
11.08.190: Notice Of Completion
11.08.010: WHEN TENTATIVE AND FINAL PARCEL MAPS REQUIRED:
Approval of a tentative parcel map and a final parcel map shall be required in
the following instances:
   A.   For subdivisions in which four (4) or fewer parcels are to be created;
   B.   For subdivisions in which the whole parcel before division contains
less than five (5) acres, each parcel created by the division abuts upon a
maintained public street or highway and no dedications or improvements are
required;
   C.   For any parcel(s) of land divided into lots or parcels, each of which
has a gross area of twenty (20) acres or more and has approved access to a
maintained public street or highway;
   D.   For any parcel(s) of land having approved access to a public street or
highway which comprises part of a tract of land zoned for industrial or
commercial development and which has the City Council's approval as to street
alignments and widths;
   E.   For any parcel(s) of land divided into lots or parcels, each of which
has a gross area of not less than forty (40) acres or is not less than a
quarter of a quarter section; or
   F.   Any land being subdivided solely for the creation of an environmental
subdivision in compliance with Section 66418.2 of the Subdivision Map Act.
      1.   A parcel map is not required when land is conveyed to or from a
governmental agency, public entity, or public utility, or for land conveyed to
a subsidiary of a public utility for conveyance to that public utility for
rights-of-way, unless a showing is made in individual cases, based on
substantial evidence, that public policy necessitates a parcel map.
      2.   In compliance with Section 66412.5 of the Subdivision Map Act, a
parcel map is not required for subdivisions of four (4) parcels or less for
construction of removable commercial buildings having a floor area of less than
one hundred (100) square feet where subdivision is for purposes of lease or
financing but is required where subdivision is for purposes of sale.
      3.   Where a parcel map is required under this chapter, preparation,
filing and processing of a final parcel map may be waived as provided in
Chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.020: MAP PREPARATION:
The tentative parcel map shall be prepared by or under the direction of a
registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.030: PRELIMINARY REVIEW AND PREAPPLICATION:
Before submitting a tentative parcel map application, the subdivider may
schedule a preapplication meeting with the Community Development Director to
discuss the proposed subdivision. At the preapplication meeting, the subdivider
shall have an opportunity to discuss physical conditions, facts, and policies
affecting the proposed subdivision. The subdivider may also present for review
a preliminary parcel map showing approximate lot lines, proposed street
alignments, or other features of the proposed subdivision. The Director shall
inform the subdivider of the City policies, General Plan, zoning, fees,
infrastructure, and development standards which may pertain to the proposed
subdivision and may make recommendations concerning modifications to
improvement and design of the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.040: APPLICATION FILING:
A parcel map and parcel map application shall be submitted to the Community
Development Director or their designee in the format and number of copies
specified by the Director. The application shall contain all the information
specified for the application by the Director, unless the Director waives any
of the information requirements. The application shall be accompanied by the
fee established by the Master Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.050: DETERMINATION OF COMPLETENESS:
   A.   Within thirty (30) working days (excluding City recognized holidays)
after the application is submitted, the Community Development Director shall
determine whether the application, including all submitted materials, is
complete and shall notify the applicant of the determination in writing,
including (if appropriate) a description of why the application is incomplete
and any additional information that may be required. Upon receipt of any
resubmittal of the application, a new thirty (30)-day review period shall
begin.
   B.   If the Community Development Director determines that the application,
including the submitted materials, is not complete, the applicant may appeal
such determination to the Planning Commission. The appeal shall be filed in
writing with the Director within ten (10) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) after notice of the Director's determination. The Planning
Commission shall hear the appeal and give a final written determination on the
appeal within forty-five (45) working days (excluding City recognized holidays)
after the Director's receipt of the applicant's appeal. Public noticing of the
appeal hearing shall conform to all the requirements of Section
11.08.070 (Public Noticing). (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.060: APPLICATION PROCESSING:
After the application is determined to be complete and is accepted, the
Community Development Director shall proceed as follows:
   A.   Forward copies of the tentative map to affected agencies within five
working days (excluding City recognized holidays) asking them to provide their
input or comments within fifteen (15) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays).
   B.   Forward copies of the application to the affected school districts
within five (5) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) asking them
to provide their input or comments within fifteen (15) working days (excluding
City recognized holidays).
   C.   The Community Development Director shall review the application and any
comments received, prepare written conditions of approval, prepare the staff
report and recommendation on the application, and provide a copy of the report
to the applicant at least three (3) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.070: PUBLIC NOTICING:
Public notifications of a public hearing(s) for a parcel map shall comply with
the standards and procedures established in Section
11.04.070 (Public Noticing). (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.080: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall consider the tentative parcel map
application, the staff report, and other pertinent information in its scheduled
meeting and shall hold a public hearing after the acceptance of the complete
application by the Community Development Director as provided in Sections
11.08.040 through
11.08.060 of this Chapter. After the public hearing is closed, the Planning
Commission shall do the following:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall review the environmental assessment of
the applicant's proposal and act in compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act.
      2.   If the Planning Commission act on an environmental assessment in
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act, it shall then
approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the tentative parcel map within
fifty (50) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) after such action.
The environmental assessment and the tentative parcel map may be acted upon at
the same meeting as long as the environmental assessment is acted upon first.
      3.   The Planning Commission shall report in writing to the subdivider
through an adopted resolution the approval, conditional approval or
disapproval, and the conditions on which such action is based.
      4.   A parcel map shall be approved or conditionally approved by the
Planning Commission only if all requirements of this Title and other applicable
Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and policies of the City Council
are complied with or can be met by compliance with specified conditions.
   B.   The Planning Commission shall disapprove a tentative parcel map if it
makes any one of the following findings:
      1.   The proposed tentative parcel map is not in compliance with the
General Plan or any applicable specific plans as specified in Government Code
section 65451;
      2.   The design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not in
compliance with the General Plan or any applicable specific plan;
      3.   The site of the proposed subdivision is not physically suitable for
the proposed development types and density;
      4.   The design of the proposed subdivision or improvement(s) are likely
to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure
fish or wildlife or their habitat;
      5.   The design of the proposed subdivision or improvement(s) are likely
to cause serious public health problems;
      6.   The design of the proposed subdivision or improvement(s) will
conflict with easements, acquired by the public at large, for access through or
use of property within the proposed subdivision; provided that the Planning
Commission may approve the tentative parcel map if it finds that alternate
easements for access or use will be provided, and that these will be
substantially equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public. This
Subsection shall apply only to easements of record or to easements established
by judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, and no authority is hereby
granted to the Planning Commission to determine that the public at large has
acquired easements for access through or use of property within the proposed
subdivision; or
      7.   The tentative parcel map fails to meet or perform any of the
requirements or conditions imposed by the Subdivision Map Act or this Title;
provided that such disapproval shall be accompanied by a finding identifying
the requirements or conditions which have not been met or performed.
   C.   The Planning Commission's decision shall be final on the eleventh
working day (excluding City recognized holidays) from the date of the Planning
Commission's action, but become advisory if, within such ten (10) working days
(excluding City recognized holidays) period, an appeal is filed in compliance
with Section
11.08.090 (Appeals) of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.090: APPEALS:
Appeals shall be filed, noticed, heard, and decided according to the
procedures, rules, burdens, and requirements in Section
11.08.090 (Appeals), of this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.100: MINOR MODIFICATIONS:
Minor modifications to the standards and procedures established in this Chapter
may be requested and processed in compliance with Section
11.04.100 (Minor Modifications). (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.110: EXPIRATION OF TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP APPROVAL:
   A.   Except as provided in Subsection
11.08.090 (Appeals), the approval or conditional approval of a tentative map
shall expire twenty-four (24) months after the date of approval by the Planning
Commission or, if applicable, the City Council.
   B.   Once a final map of all or any portion of the real property included
within the tentative map is submitted to the City Engineer, subsequent actions
of the City, including, but not limited to, processing, approving, and
recording, may lawfully occur after the date of expiration of the tentative
map.
   C.   If multiple final maps are to be filed for the subdivision pursuant to
the Subdivision Map Act, or if the subdivider is required to spend more than
two hundred and thirty-six thousand seven hundred and ninety dollars
($236,790.00) or any greater amount in compliance with Section 66452.6 of the
Subdivision Map Act to construct, improve, or finance the construction of
public improvements outside the property boundaries of the tentative map,
excluding improvements of public rights of way which abut the property to be
subdivided and which are reasonably related to the development of the property,
each filing of a final map shall extend the expiration of the approved or
conditionally approved tentative map by forty-eight (48) months from the date
of its expiration, or the date of the previously filed final map, whichever is
later, but in no event more than ten (10) years from such approval or
conditional approval.
   D.   The period of time specified in Subsection A or B of this Section,
including any extension granted pursuant to this section, shall not include any
time during which a development moratorium, imposed after approval or
conditional approval of the tentative map, is in effect. However, the length of
the moratorium shall not exceed five (5) years.
   E.   The period of time specified in Subsection A or B of this Section,
including any extension granted in compliance with this Section, shall not
include any time during which a lawsuit involving the approval or conditional
approval of the tentative map is or was pending in a court of competent
jurisdiction. After service of the initial petition or complaint in the lawsuit
upon the City, the subdivider may apply in writing to the Community Development
Director for a stay. Within forty (40) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) after receiving the application, the Director shall in writing either
stay the time period for up to five (5) years or deny the requested stay.
   F.   Expiration of an approved or conditionally approved tentative map shall
terminate all proceedings, and no final map of all or any portion of real
property included within the tentative map shall be filed without first
processing a new tentative map application. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.120: EXTENSIONS:
Extension applications shall be filed, noticed, heard, and decided according to
the procedures, rules, burdens, and requirements in Section
11.04.120 (Extensions), of this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.130: IMPROVEMENTS:
Before the approval of the final parcel map, the subdivider shall submit to the
City Engineer improvement plans required by the conditions of approval of the
tentative parcel map, prepared by a registered civil engineer, for review and
approval in accordance with Section 11.04.0130 (Improvements) of this Title.
(Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.140: FINAL PARCEL MAP APPLICATION AND FILING:
   A.   Before expiration of the tentative parcel map, unless the requirement
for a final parcel map has been waived pursuant to
Chapter 6 of this Title, the subdivider may cause the land included within the
tentative parcel map, or any part thereof, to be surveyed, may prepare a final
parcel map in accordance with the approved or conditionally approved tentative
parcel map and may file the final parcel map application with the City
Engineer.
   B.   A final map conforming to the requirements of this Section and Section
11.08.130 (Improvements) of this Chapter shall be submitted to the Engineering
Department in the format and number of copies specified by the City Engineer.
The application shall contain all the information specified for the application
by the City Engineer unless the City Engineer waives any of the information
requirements. The application shall be accompanied by the fee established by
the Master Fee Schedule. Final Parcel Map Description and Contents.
   C.   Map Description. The final parcel map shall be prepared by a registered
civil engineer or licensed surveyor and shall show the location of all streets
and property lines bordering the property. It shall be legibly drawn, printed,
or reproduced by a process guaranteeing a permanent record in black or tracing
cloth or polyester base film. Certificates or statements, affidavits and
acknowledgments on the map shall be legibly stamped or printed on the map and
signed with opaque ink. If ink is used on a polyester base film, the ink
surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure permanent
legibility. The final parcel map shall be on one or more eighteen-inch (18") by
twenty-six-inch (26') sheets and shall have a one-inch (1") margin completely
around the drawing. All lettering shall be legible size.
   D.   Survey Required. A complete and accurate field survey of the land to be
subdivided shall be made in conformity with the California Professional Land
Surveyor's Act.
   E.   Information Required on Final Parcel Map. In addition to any other
information required by law, the final parcel map shall include the following
information. To the extent any such information is not specified in or
authorized by the Subdivision Map Act, it shall be included in a separate
document or additional map sheet(s), each of which shall indicate its
relationship to the final parcel map and shall state that the information is
for informational purposes only, describing conditions as of the date of
filing, and is not to be intended to affect record title interest.
      1.   A title.
      2.   A parcel map number assigned by the department.
      3.   Date of preparation, north point, and scale.
      4.   The boundary of the parcel map area and each parcel in relation to
surrounding surveys.
      5.   Public and private easements and rights of way.
      6.   Location, width, name or other designation and curve radii of all
alleys, streets, and highways adjacent to or within the parcel map.
      7.   Parcel letters or numbers, parcel lines, dimensions, and areas.
      8.   Location of all proposed monuments at the following locations:
         a.   Intersection of street centerlines.
         b.   Beginning and ending of curves or intersection of tangents on
street centerlines.
         c.   Any other location required by the City Engineer.
   F.   Certificates And Statements on Final Parcel Map. The final map shall
contain or be accompanied by all certificates and statements required by the
Subdivision Map Act. It shall also contain any other certificates that may be
required by the Planning Commission or City Council. All final map requirements
stated in Section
11.04.160  (Final Map Application), of this Title shall apply to a final parcel
map.
   G.   Dedications or Offers of Dedications. If dedications or offers of
dedication are required, they may be made either by a statement on the parcel
map or by a separate instrument. If dedications or offers of dedication are
made by separate instrument, the dedications or offers of dedication shall be
recorded concurrently with, or prior to, the final parcel map being filed for
record. The dedication or offers of dedication, whether by statement or
separate instrument, shall be signed by all parties having any record title
interest in the real property.
   H.   Abandonment of Public Streets and Easements. The final parcel map shall
adequately delineate any public streets or public easements to be left in
effect after the subdivision. The filing of the final parcel map shall
constitute abandonment of all public streets and public easements not shown on
the final parcel map; provided that, a written notation of each abandonment is
listed by reference to the recording data or other official record creating
these public streets or public easements and certified to on the map by the
City Clerk. Before a public easement vested in another public entity may be
abandoned pursuant to this Subsection, the applicant shall notify the public
entity of the proposed abandonment. The applicant shall submit with the final
parcel map written verification that the public entity has received the notice.
No public easement vested in another public entity shall be abandoned pursuant
to this Subsection if that public entity objects to the proposed abandonment.
   I.   Submittal of Final Improvement Plans. The applicant shall submit to the
City Engineer final improvement plans in accordance with Section
11.04.130  (Improvements), of this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.150: CITY ENGINEER REVIEW:
The City Engineer shall review the final map and subsequent submissions of the
map and will recommend approval when they determine that the final map complies
with all requirements of this Chapter and Title. The public improvement plans
shall be subject to review and approval by the City Engineer prior to
acceptance of the final map. The final map shall be reviewed and subject to
acceptance by the City Engineer prior to City Council consideration of the
final map. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.160: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR REVIEW:
The Community Development Director shall review the final map to determine its
substantial conformance with the approved tentative map and the conditions of
approval imposed by the Planning Commission and/or City Council. If the
Director determines that the final map is in substantial conformance with the
approved tentative map, that all conditions of approval have been met or
performed, and that the final map has been recommended for approval by the City
Engineer, the Director shall present it to the City Council with their
recommendation. If a subdivision improvement agreement is proposed, it shall be
presented to the City Council in the same meeting as the final map. (Ord. 2024-
002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.170: APPROVAL OF FINAL PARCEL MAP:
Upon receipt of a final parcel map recommended for approval, the City Council
shall consider the final parcel map at its next meeting when such matter may be
legally considered. The City Council shall approve or disapprove the final
parcel map as provided in this Subsection. If a parcel map improvement
agreement or offer(s) of dedication is involved, the City Council shall
consider them at the same meeting at which it considers the final parcel map.
The City Council may approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the
improvement agreement. The City Council may accept, accept subject to
improvement, or reject any offer or dedication. The City Council shall approve
the final parcel map if it finds that the final parcel map is in substantial
compliance with the approved tentative parcel map; provided that, the City
Council may waive noncompliance and approve the final parcel map if the City
Council finds that the noncompliance is the result of a technical and
inadvertent error which, in the determination of the City Council, does not
materially affect the validity of the final parcel map. The City Council shall
take action on any subdivision improvement agreement related to the subject
subdivision prior to taking action on the final map. If the City Council
disapproves the final map, it shall include with such disapproval a finding
identifying the failure(s) to conform and/or requirements or conditions which
have not been met or performed. If the City Council approves the final map, it
shall at the same time accept, accept subject to improvements, or reject any
offer of dedication by the subdivider. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.180: RECORDATION OF FINAL MAP:
   A.   Upon approval of the final map by the City Council, the City Clerk
shall execute the appropriate certificate on the certificate sheet and shall,
pursuant to the provisions of Map Act Section 66464, have an authorized agent
of the City transmit the map to the Fresno County Recorder for recordation. The
following shall also be transmitted to the Fresno County Recorder:
      1.   A title guarantee by a qualified title company, for the benefit of
the City, certifying that the signatures of all persons whose consent is
necessary to pass clear title to the land and all acknowledgments appear on the
proper certificates and are correctly shown on the map and affidavits to a
dedication.
      2.   Fresno County tax compliance certification request.
      3.   All other data, documents and other matters required to be filed
with the city engineer in conjunction with the final map, as may be required by
law. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.08.190: NOTICE OF COMPLETION:
Upon completion and acceptance of the improvements in accordance with the
approved parcel map improvement agreement, the applicant shall request a notice
of completion in accordance with Section
11.04.220 (Notice of Completion), of this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
CHAPTER 11.10
WAIVERS
SECTION:
11.10.010: Waivers Authorized
11.10.020: Application
11.10.030: Procedures And Required Findings
11.10.040: Improvements
11.10.050: Certification Of Water
11.10.010: WAIVERS AUTHORIZED:
   A.   As required by Section 66428(b) of the Subdivision Map Act, this
Chapter establishes rules, regulations, and specifications for waivers of a
parcel map for division of land either for lease, sale, or financing into four
parcels or less hereafter made within the City or as may be annexed to the
City.
   B.   Waiver of the requirement to prepare and file a final parcel map
otherwise required under
Chapter 11.08 (Parcel Map) of this Title may be authorized if the proposed
division of land satisfies all the requirements and criteria established in
Section
11.10.020 (Application).
   C.   The waiver, if granted, shall apply only to the requirements for
preparation, filing and approval of a final parcel map as specified in Section
11.08.040 through Section
11.08.060 of this Title; it shall not waive any other requirements applicable
under
Chapter 11.08 (Parcel Map) of this Title or other provisions of this Title,
including, without limitation, the requirement for preparation, filing and
processing a tentative parcel map. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.10.020: APPLICATION:
Application for a final parcel map waiver shall be made to the Community
Development Director on a separate form prescribed by the Community Development
Department. The application shall be in addition to, and shall be submitted
with, the tentative parcel map, tentative parcel map application and other
submittals and information specified in Section
11.08.140 (Final Parcel Map Application and Filing), of this Title. The
application shall contain or have appended to it all information prescribed by
the Community Development Department. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.10.030: PROCEDURES AND REQUIRED FINDINGS:
   A.   The application for a final parcel map waiver shall be subject to the
same procedures for acceptance, review and approval as the tentative parcel map
and tentative parcel map application set forth in Section
11.08.040 through Section
11.08.060, of this Title, inclusive, subject to the following:
   B.   The Planning Commission shall act on the application for final parcel
map waiver no later than sixty (60) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) after the application has been accepted as complete by the Community
Development Director in compliance with Section
11.08.040 through Section
11.08.060, of this Title, even if the Planning Commission's consideration and
action on the tentative parcel map application is at a different time pursuant
to Section
11.08.080 (Planning Commission Action), of this Title; and
   C.   Before approval of a final parcel map waiver, the Planning Commission
shall make each of the findings required by Section 66428(b) of the Subdivision
Map Act. These findings shall be in addition to, but may be combined with, the
findings required for approval of the tentative parcel map.
   D.   The action of the Planning Commission on the application for final
parcel map waiver shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section
11.08.090 (Appeals), of this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.10.040: IMPROVEMENTS:
As a condition of approving waiver of a final parcel map, the Planning
Commission shall require the subdivider to install, construct, and/or provide
all onsite and offsite improvements and the dedication of rights of way or
easements required under
Chapter 11.08 (Parcel Map) of this Title for the tentative parcel map covering
the parcels being created. If a parcel map improvement agreement is required
under Subsection
11.08.130 (Improvements), of this Title, the certificate of waiver shall not be
issued until the agreement and required security has been filed with and
approved by the City Council and City Engineer. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.10.050: CERTIFICATION OF WATER:
When the Planning Commission has found and determined that a division of land
qualifies for a final parcel map waiver, and subject to the applicant's
compliance, the Community Development Department shall issue a certificate of
waiver to the applicant. The applicant shall record such certificate
concurrently with the deed, contract of sale or lease of any portion of the
property. A copy of both recorded documents shall be filed with the Community
Development Department before the certificate shall become final. (Ord. 2024-
002, 9-20-2024)
CHAPTER 11.12
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION
11.12.010: Streets
11.12.020: Alleys
11.12.030: Parcels
11.12.040: Blocks
11.12.050: Railroad Grade Crossings
11.12.060: Watercourse
11.12.070: Drainage
11.12.080: Sanitary Sewers
11.12.090: Water Lines And Fire Hydrants
11.12.100: Utility Easements
11.12.110: Limitations On Access
11.12.120: Street Signs
11.12.130: Commercial And industrial Areas
11.12.140: Soils And Corrective Action
11.12.150: Rights-Of-Way And Improvements Standards
11.12.160: Cable Television Service
11.12.170: Exceptions
11.12.180: Oversized Improvements
11.12.010: STREETS:
   A.   Rights of Way and Improvements. Street rights of way and improvements
shall conform with the minimum standards established in Section
11.12.150  (Rights-of-Way and Improvements Standards), of this Chapter.
   B.   Curbs And Gutters. Curbs and gutters shall be provided in conformity
with the standards established in Section
11.12.150  (Rights-of-Way and Improvements Standards), of this Chapter.
   C.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided in conformity with the standards
established in Section
11.12.150  (Rights-of-Way and Improvements Standards), of this Chapter and
shall be constructed contiguous to the curb.
   D.   Planting Strips. Any space between the edge of the sidewalk and the
right-of-way line, and any space between the pavement of a frontage street and
the pavement of the adjacent major arterial or arterial street, limited access
highway or freeway, shall be reserved for planting and all purposes provided by
law within street rights-of-way, subject to control by the City under its
ordinances and regulations.
   E.   Curves and Tangents. Curved streets shall have centerline radii of not
less than the minimum standards established in Section
11.12.150  (Rights-of-Way and Improvements Standards), of this Chapter.
Suitable tangents shall be used between all curves.
   F.   Grades. Grades shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
   G.   Corners. At street corners the radii of right-of-way line connections
shall be as follows:
      1.   At intersections involving one or more major arterial, arterial, or
collector, not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   At intersections involving unusual circumstances, such radii as may
be required for the public safety.
      3.   At all other intersections, not less than twenty feet (20').
   H.   Intersections. Street intersections shall be as near right angles as
practicable and in no case shall the angle of intersection be less than sixty-
five degrees (65°).
   I.   Alignment of Streets at Intersection. Streets located on opposite sides
of an intersecting street shall have their centerlines directly opposite each
other where physically possible; and otherwise the centerlines shall be
separated by at least one hundred fifty feet (150').
   J.   Alignment With Existing Streets (Other Than Intersections). Subdivision
streets which constitute continuations of streets in contiguous territory shall
be aligned so that their centerlines coincide where physically possible, and
otherwise centerlines shall be continued by suitable curves.
   K.   Extension of Streets to Boundary Lines. Extensions of boundary lines
shall comply with the following:
      1.   Streets shall be extended directly to the boundary lines of the
subdivision for the purposes of coordination and development of the existing
and future street plans with respect to adjacent territory.
   L.   Half Streets and Streets Located Partly Within Subdivisions. Half and
partial streets located in subdivisions shall comply with the following:
      1.   Notwithstanding that a portion of any existing or proposed street
may lie outside of the subdivision, the Planning Commission shall have
authority to establish the width and alignment of same.
      2.   The subdivider shall only be required to improve the portion of the
street dedicated in compliance with this Title.
      3.   If the centerline of a proposed street right of way will lie outside
the subdivision, the subdivider shall nevertheless furnish sufficient
additional right-of-way, by means of a temporary additional easement, so that
there shall be a temporary half street, which shall be at least half of the
width of the ultimate proposed street right of way. Such temporary additional
easement shall be abandoned for street purposes and revert to the adjoining
property when the additional right of way outside of the subdivision has been
acquired. The City Council shall have the discretion to permit the postponement
of any required improvement within such temporary additional easement by an
agreement secured by improvement security, but such improvements shall be
installed in any case not later than the date of acquisition of the additional
right of way outside of the subdivision.
   M.   Cul-De-Sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall comply with the following:
      1.   Cul-de-sacs shall terminate in an area bounded by a right-of-way
line lying on or outside of a circle with a radius of not less than fifty feet
(50').
      2.   The length of a cul-de-sac shall not exceed five hundred feet
(500'), measured from the center of the circle mentioned in Subsection M.1 of
this Section to the closest right-of-way line of the connecting street,
measured along the centerline of the cul-de-sac.
      3.   Dead end streets shall not be allowed, except where a street extends
to a boundary line and it is determined that such street will be extended
beyond the boundary of the subdivision within a reasonable time, in which case
a temporary cul-de-sac may be required. The design of the temporary cul-de-sac
shall be subject to approval by the City Engineer.
   N.   Limiting Access to Major Streets; Frontage Streets. Access to major and
frontage streets shall be limited as follows:
      1.   Where the public safety so requires, the Community Development
Director shall have the discretion to limit direct access between a subdivision
and any contiguous, major arterial or arterial street by requiring
interposition of a limited access strip.
      2.   Where necessary for the general use of the lot owners in the
subdivision or local neighborhood traffic, and for reasons of public safety,
the Community Development Director shall have the discretion to require a
frontage street separating the subdivision from a limited access strip as
mentioned in Subsection N.1 of this Section or from a freeway or limited access
highway or major arterial.
   O.   Street Names and House Numbers. Street names shall conform with the
official plan of street names and house numbers of the City. Street names shall
be subject to approval by the Community Development Department. (Ord. 2024-002,
9-20-2024)
11.12.020: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys may be required in subdivisions at the option of the City.
   B.   The subdivider shall improve all alleys as provided in Section
11.12.150 (Rights-of-Way and Improvements Standards), of this Chapter.
   C.   Width of alleys shall be not less than twenty feet (20'), provided that
in commercial and industrial zones, the City Engineer shall have the discretion
to require a minimum width of up to thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
11.12.030: PARCELS:
   A.   Size And Shape. The size and shape of lots shall be such as reasonably
conform with, or to affect an appropriate transition with respect to, lots in
adjoining areas. In any case, the area of lots shall be not less than the
minimum size as provided for the applicable zone district under the Zoning Code
in effect at the time of approval of the tentative map.
   B.   Width and Depth of Residential Lots. The width and depth of residential
parcels shall comply with Section
10.10.030  (Development Standards).
   C.   Through Lots. Through lots shall not be permitted, except where
necessary to prevent residential lots from fronting on a major street, limited
access highway or a freeway.
   D.   Side Lines of Lots. Side lines of lots shall run, as nearly as
practicable, at right angles to the street centerline, or at right angles to
the tangent of any curved street centerline, upon which the lot faces. Lots on
cul-de-sac streets shall have side lines that are radial to center of the cul-
de-sac.
   E.   Divided Boundary Lines. No lot shall be divided by the boundary line of
a County or City.
   F.   Future Dividing. Where any lot is designed such that there is a
possibility that it may be divided into two or more lots at some future time,
the size, shape, and orientation of the lot with respect to streets and
easements shall be such that such future division of the lot may readily take
place in compliance with this title or the Zoning Code and with the orderly
extension of existing or potential streets and easements. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
11.12.040: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length of Blocks. Blocks shall comply with the following:
      1.   Blocks shall not be more than nine hundred and ninety feet (990')
long, except to the extent a block rears upon a freeway, limited access highway
or railroad right of way.
      2.   Blocks shall not be less than six hundred and sixty feet (660')
long, except where shorter blocks are necessary to conform with the location of
streets and other parts of the subdivision, such as where the subdivision is of
irregular shape, or contains otherwise suitable blocks or streets of irregular
shape or alignment or is intersected by existing or potential streets so
requiring.
      3.   Blocks longer than six hundred and sixty feet (660') (but not longer
than nine hundred and ninety feet (990')) may be required by the Community
Development Director and City Engineer for the purpose of reducing the number
of intersections with arterial and collector streets.
   B.   Definition. For the purpose of this Section, the term "block" shall be
deemed to be all property fronting on one side of a street measured from the
points where such street is intersected or intercepted by other streets. (Ord.
2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.050: RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
Where the subdivision adjoins a railroad, and the location of existing or
potential streets is such that there is a possibility of a grade separation,
the City Engineer may require the design of the subdivision to accommodate such
grade separation. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.060: WATERCOURSE:
   A.   In event a subdivision is traversed by or adjoins a watercourse or
stream:
      1.   An easement shall be provided for the flow of the watercourse or
stream conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse or stream of
sufficient width to carry the reasonably anticipated flow of water and for the
maintenance of the banks and watercourse or stream; or
      2.   Provisions may be made for relocating a stream or watercourse, for
which suitable easements shall be provided as described in Subsection A.1 of
this Section; and
      3.   Easements shall be provided for existing and potential structures
necessary to control or dispose of water or for crossings; and
      4.   The City Engineer may require watercourses, streams, or ditches to
be placed in underground pipes, where they determine that public safety
reasonably so requires.
   B.   All matters of size and design in cases mentioned in this section shall
be subject to the City's Standards and the approval of the City Engineer. (Ord.
2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.070: DRAINAGE:
   A.   All lots shall be adequately graded, sloped, and drained so that
surface water will be conducted to underground drains or gutters, all of which
shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
   B.   There shall be provided storm water collection lines and drainage
channels and related structures and improvements for drainage and disposal of
surface and storm waters according to local neighborhood requirements.
   C.   All matters of size and design in cases mentioned in this Section shall
be subject to the City's Standards, the City storm drain master plan and the
approval of the City Engineer. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.080: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Sewer lines shall be provided and shall connect with existing sewer
lines or mains. Connections shall be provided for every lot in the subdivision.
   B.   Where lines are laid in streets or alleys, laterals for connections
with lots shall be extended to the right-of-way lines.
   C.   The subdivider shall provide all related structures and appurtenant
parts necessary for the foregoing purposes.
   D.   All matters of size and design in cases mentioned in this section shall
be subject to the City's Standards, the city sanitary sewer master plan and the
approval of the City Engineer. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.090: WATER LINES AND FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   The subdivider shall provide all related structures and appurtenant
parts necessary for the foregoing purposes.
   B.   Water lines shall be provided and shall connect with existing water
lines or mains. Connections shall be provided for every lot in the subdivision.
   C.   Where water lines are laid in streets or alleys, laterals for
connections with lots shall be extended to the right of way lines.
   D.   Fire hydrants shall be provided with suitable connections to water
lines or mains to supply necessary local neighborhood fire protection.
   E.   All matters of size and design in cases mentioned in this section shall
be subject to the City's Standards and the approval of the City Engineer and
Fire Department. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.100: UTILITY EASEMENTS:
   A.   Easements shall be provided for the location of overhead and
underground utilities, including, but not confined to, electrical,
communication, sewer, water, or gas lines or drainage facilities.
   B.   Easements described in Subsection A of this Section shall be dedicated
to the City. By virtue of such easements and dedication, the City shall have
the right to install, operate, maintain, and replace within such easements such
utilities which the City may, from time to time, operate including, but not
confined to, water and sewer lines. Public utility companies now or hereafter
holding franchises under Federal or State law or City ordinance to occupy
public roads or highways shall also be entitled to use such easements for the
installation, operation, maintenance and replacement of their utility lines,
mains, and facilities, without the necessity of obtaining permission from the
City. Nothing in this Section shall preclude a public utility from obtaining
its own easements; provided however, no easement shall be obtained by a utility
company in those instances where the City will install municipally owned
utility facilities until the City ascertains, within a reasonable length of
time, that it is unable to coordinate the use or location of facilities between
the various utility companies and City within any utility easement provided in
accordance with Subsection A of this Section.
   C.   Such easements shall include the right of reasonable ingress and egress
over any lot in the subdivision for the purposes of use, maintenance and
control of such easements and the utility facilities located therein.
   D.   Such an easement shall be labeled "utility easement" on the tentative
map, tentative parcel map, final map, or final parcel map, and when so labeled
shall be deemed to refer to the easement herein mentioned, and any offer of
dedication appended to such map shall be deemed to include an offer to dedicate
the easements mentioned in this Section.
   E.   The size and location of such easements shall comply with the following
minimum standards:
      1.   The front ten feet (10') of each lot in the subdivision shall be
subject to the utility easements, except in cases mentioned in Subsection E.3
of this Section. Corner lots shall be subject to such easements on both street
frontages, except in cases mentioned in Subsection E.3 of this Section.
      2.   At such points as may be determined necessary to provide necessary
utility services, such easements shall be provided to the extent of four feet
(4') on each side of a side lot line to furnish a total easement of eight feet,
except in cases mentioned in Subsection E.3 of this Section.
      3.   Where lots have an alley, the utility easement may be located within
the 20-foot wide alley right-of-way.
      4.   Notwithstanding Subsection E.1, E.2 or E.3 of this Section, all
matters of location, width and design of utility easements shall be subject to
the City's Standards and the approval of the City Engineer.
   F.   Utility lines, equipment, boxes, meters, and all related appurtenances
and improvements required by the utility company shall be provided by the
subdivider. Connections shall be provided for every lot in the subdivision.
   G.   For underground utilities, the improvements and equipment required
shall include the following.
      1.   Surface mounted transformers (in residential zoning districts only).
      2.   For the purpose of this subsection, surface mounted transformers (in
commercial and industrial zoning districts only), pedestal mounted terminal
boxes and meter cabinets, ducts, street lighting or signal control cabinets,
and other associated equipment in an underground system may be placed
aboveground.
      3.   Proposed and existing utility lines including, but not limited to,
electrical, telephone and cable television providing service to all new
subdivision developments within residential, commercial, and industrial zones
shall be placed underground. The subdivider responsible for complying with the
requirements of this subsection shall make the necessary arrangements with the
electrical and telephone utilities for the installation of such facilities. The
City Engineer may exempt the undergrounding of existing utility lines in cases
of unusual circumstances. Said exemption shall be in writing in a form
acceptable to the City Engineer.
      4.   This subsection shall not apply to telephone transmission lines or
electric transmission lines or other lines which do not provide service to the
area being subdivided. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.110: LIMITATIONS ON ACCESS:
No reservations controlling or limiting access to public ways shall be
permitted, except as provided in this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.120: STREET SIGNS:
   A.   At least one (1) permanent street name sign shall be provided at the
intersection of each named street or pedestrian way.
   B.   All matters of location and design of street name signs shall be
subject to the City's Standards and approval of the City Engineer. (Ord. 2024-
002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.130: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL AREAS:
When property is designated by the General Plan or Zoning Code as being for
commercial or industrial use, the design of the subdivision and the kinds,
nature and extent of the improvements and dedications to be required shall be
appropriate to such use as determined by the Planning Commission. The streets
shall be adequate for the traffic anticipated for such uses and shall provide
direct access from arterial and collector streets without traversing local
streets or residentially zoned areas. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.140: SOILS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION:
   A.   A soil report is required with respect to every subdivision and parcel
map. The soil report shall be furnished by the subdivider and shall be filed
with the final map, as applicable.
   B.   If the City Engineer and the building division both determine that, due
to knowledge that each has as to the soil qualities of the subdivision, no soil
report is necessary, they may waive the same, and shall so notify the Community
Development Director.
   C.   The City Engineer shall have authority to require the subdivider to
furnish a soil investigation of all or any portion of the land within the
subdivision.
   D.   In addition to and without limitation on Subsection C of this section,
if a soil report shows any soil problem, the Building Official shall require a
soil investigation of each lot in the subdivision. Any soil investigation made
under Subsection C of this Section shall suffice if the Building Official
determines that it is sufficiently detailed as to individual lots.
   E.   If the Building Official determines the recommended action shown in any
soil investigation is likely to prevent structural defects to any dwelling to
be constructed, the Building Official shall approve such soil investigation,
and as a condition to the issuance of a Building Official for such dwelling,
the recommended action in the approved soil investigation shall be incorporated
in the construction of each dwelling or structure.
   F.   If any subdivision or part thereof is, or appears to be, affected by a
soil problem, the City Engineer shall have authority to require the subdivider
to take such corrective action or make such improvements as the City Engineer
may determine necessary to prevent structural defects. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
11.12.150: RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS:
   A.   Street Design and Development Standards. The design and development
standards for rights-of-way shall comply with the most up-to-date adopted City
of Reedley Standards.
   B.   Review And Approval. The intersection area of any major arterial,
arterial, collector, or local street with any class of street shall be subject
to review and approval of the City Engineer as to right of way widths, paving
widths, and other details of design.
   C.   Subject To Standards. All matters of design in cases mentioned in this
Section shall be subject to the City Standards and the approval of the City
Engineer. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.160: CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE:
In new residential developments in which the electric power and telephone
utilities are underground, or are required to be placed underground pursuant to
Section
11.12.100 (Utility Easements), of this Chapter, the following procedure and
requirements shall apply with respect to access to and utilization of
underground easements and the installation of facilities for cable television
(CATV) service:
   A.   The subdivider shall contact and survey all CATV operators who have
received a franchise from the city pursuant to
Title 7, Chapter 7 of this Code to ascertain which operators desire to provide
CATV service to the subdivision. The subdivider may establish a reasonable
deadline to receive CATV operator responses. The final map or final parcel map,
or in the case of residential projects not requiring a subdivision or parcel
map, the final site plan or (if none) final building plans, shall indicate the
CATV operators that have agreed to serve the development.
   B.   If two (2) or more CATV operators wish to provide service, the
subdivider shall accommodate them in a joint utilities trench on a
nondiscriminatory shared cost basis. If fewer than two (2) CATV operators
indicate interest, the subdivider shall provide conduit to accommodate two sets
of CATV cables and dedicate to the City any initially unoccupied conduit. The
subdivider shall be entitled to recover the costs of installing such initially
unoccupied conduit if the City subsequently leases or sells occupancy or use
rights to any CATV operator. Recovery of such costs shall be subject to the
terms, conditions, and limitations of a written agreement between the
subdivider and the City.
   C.   The subdivider shall provide at least ten (10) working days (excluding
City recognized holidays) written notice of the date that utility trenches will
be open to the franchised CATV operators that have agreed to serve the
development. If a CATV operator does not reply to the subdivider within ten
(10) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) after receipt of such
notice, the CATV operator shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity to
install its CATV facilities during the period the trenches are open. When the
trenches are open, CATV operators shall have two (2) working days (excluding
City recognized holidays) to begin the installation of their cables, and five
(5) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) after beginning
installation to complete installation.
   D.   For residential subdivisions, compliance with this section shall be
imposed as a condition of approval of any tentative map or tentative parcel
map. The final map or final parcel map shall not be approved, or, for
residential projects not requiring a subdivision map, the final site plan shall
not be approved or a Building Permit shall not be issued (whichever is
applicable), until the subdivider or developer submits evidence that it has, or
has agreed in a subdivision agreement, parcel map agreement or other
development agreement with the City that it will:
      1.   Notify each franchised CATV operator that underground utility
trenches are to be open as of an estimated date, and that each franchised CATV
operator will be allowed access to such trenches, including trenches from
proposed streets to individual homes or home sites, on specified
nondiscriminatory terms and conditions; and
      2.   Pursuant to Subsection C of this Section, receive and accept a
written reply from a CATV operator that it intends to install its facilities
during the period the trenches are open on the specified terms and conditions,
or such other terms and conditions as are mutually agreeable to the subdivider
or the developer and CATV operator, subject to a CATV operator's waiver of such
opportunity as provided in Subsection C of this Section.
   E.   Participating CATV operators shall share the joint utilities trench
subject to compliance with state regulatory agency and utility standards. If
such compliance is not possible, the subdivider shall provide a separate trench
for the television cables, with the entire cost shared among the subdivider and
participating CATV operators. With the concurrence of the subdivider, the
affected utilities, CATV operators and the city engineer, alternative
installation procedures, such as the use of deeper trenches, may be utilized,
subject to applicable law.
   F.   Any CATV operator wishing to serve an area where the trenches have been
closed shall be responsible for its own trenching and associated costs.
   G.   If the City grants an encroachment permit to an applicant for a CATV
franchise to install conduit and/or cable, the City may require the applicant
to provide a separate trench for its conduit and/or cable, at the applicant's
cost. The construction of such separate trench, if provided, shall be
coordinated with, and subject to, the subdivider's overall construction
schedule. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.170: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the Planning
Commission may grant exceptions to the requirements of this Chapter, the City's
Standards or any supplementary improvement standards adopted pursuant to this
Chapter, if it shall find all the following by resolution:
      1.   There are special and unusual circumstances or conditions affecting
the property to be subdivided.
      2.   The exception is necessary for the proper design or intended use of
the subdivision.
      3.   The exception will not be detrimental to the public health, safety,
or welfare, or be injurious to or have an adverse effect on other property or
residents in the surrounding area.
      4.   The exception will not have an effect contrary to the purposes of
this Title set out in Section
11.02.020 (Purpose and Intent), of this Title, nor contrary to the provisions
of the General Plan or any applicable specific plan, the Subdivision Map Act or
other applicable law.
   B.   Consideration of exceptions by the Planning Commission may be initiated
by application in writing by the subdivider or the subdivider's authorized
representative, filed with the Planning Commission at the time of the filing of
the tentative map or tentative parcel map or thereafter, which shall set forth
the proposed exception, identify it with reference to the tentative map or
tentative parcel map, and explain why it satisfies each of the requirements of
Subsection A, above. The applicant shall submit a filing fee in the amount
established by the Master Fee Schedule.
   C.   Consideration of exceptions by the commission may also be initiated on
its own motion.
   D.   Exceptions may be considered by the Planning Commission at the same
time, or after, the consideration of the tentative map or tentative parcel map.
   E.   Upon receipt of a complete application for an exception, or upon
initiation of its own motion, the Planning Commission shall hold a noticed
public hearing on the proposed exception.
      1.   Notice of Hearing. If the exception is to be considered at the same
time as the tentative map or tentative parcel map, notice shall be given and
the hearing shall be conducted as part of the notice and hearing on the
tentative map or tentative parcel map.
      2.   Hearing Date Published. If the exception is to be considered after
and separately from approval of the tentative map or tentative parcel map,
notice of the time, date and place of the hearing shall comply with the
standards established in Section
11.04.070  (Public Noticing).
      3.   Decision of Planning Commission. Upon closing of the public hearing,
the Planning Commission shall give its decision on the proposed exception in
accordance with Subsection A. The decision of the Planning Commission shall be
final.
      4.   Appeal. The applicant or any interested person adversely affected
may appeal any action of the Planning Commission with respect to the required
exception. The appeal shall be filed, noticed, heard, and decided according to
the procedures, rules, burdens, and requirements in Section
11.04.090  (Appeals), of this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.12.180: OVERSIZED IMPROVEMENTS:
The City Council may determine by resolution that the required size, capacity,
number or length of any street, sewer, water, storm drain, or other
improvements installed by the subdivider pursuant to this title shall be
greater than would otherwise be required hereunder, for the benefit of property
not within the subdivision, and that those improvements be dedicated to the
public. In that event, the City shall enter into an agreement with the
subdivider, as part of the subdivision improvement agreement or in a separate
agreement, to reimburse the subdivider for that portion of the cost of those
improvements, including interest, more than the construction required for the
subdivision. The agreement shall provide for reimbursement in one of the ways
set forth in section 66487 of the Subdivision Map Act, as determined by the
City Council. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
CHAPTER 11.14
ADDITIONAL SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11.14.010: Lot Line Adjustments
11.14.020: Condominium Conversions
11.14.030: Reversion To Acreage
11.14.040: Merger Of Contiguous Parcels
11.14.010: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Applicability. A lot line adjustment involves two or more existing
adjacent parcels when land is taken from one parcel and added to an adjacent
parcel, and where a greater number of parcels than originally existed is not
thereby created. No tentative map, tentative parcel map, final map, or final
parcel map shall be required as a condition to the approval of a lot line
adjustment. However, an application for a lot line adjustment shall include a
diagram or map of the proposed lot line adjustment complying with this section.
   B.   Application. A lot line adjustment application shall be submitted to
the Community Development Director in the format and number of copies specified
by the Director. The application shall contain all the information, documents,
and diagrams specified for the application by the Director, unless the Director
waives any of the requirements. The application shall be accompanied by the fee
established by the Master Fee Schedule.
   C.   Community Development Director Review. The Community Development
Director shall review the application to determine its compliance with the
Zoning Code. The Director shall forward their written determination to the
applicant and the City Engineer.
   D.   City Engineer Review. The City Engineer shall review the application
for completeness, its effect on any existing utilities and infrastructure, and
technical correctness.
   E.   City Engineer Action. The City Engineer may approve the lot line
adjustment application if found in compliance with the Community Development
Director's Determination and the Subdivision Map Act.
   F.   Appeals. The applicant or any interested person adversely affected may
appeal any action of the City Engineer with respect to the lot line adjustment
to the City Council within ten (10) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) of the City Engineer's action. The appeal shall be filed, noticed,
heard, and decided according to the procedures, rules, burdens, and
requirements in Section 11-04-090 (Appeals) of this Title.
   G.   Lot Line Adjustment Recordation. The approved lot line adjustment shall
be forwarded by the City Engineer to the County Recorder's Office for
recording.
   H.   Deed Recordation. Within twelve (12) months of the date of recordation
of the lot line adjustment, the approved and recorded lot line adjustment shall
be reflected in a deed(s), which shall be forwarded by the applicant to the
Fresno County Recorder's Office for recording. The applicant shall pay the
recording fee as set forth by the Fresno County Recorder's Office.
   I.   Certificate of Compliance. Proof of the recorded deed(s) shall be
forwarded to the City Engineer. If the deed(s) comply with the approved and
recorded lot line adjustment, a Certificate of Compliance for each affected
parcel shall be forwarded by the City Engineer to the County Recorder's Office
for recording. Copies of the recorded Certificate of Compliance(s) shall be
delivered to the applicant. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.14.020: CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS:
   A.   Conversion of Existing Property. This Chapter applies to a subdivision
to be created from conversion of existing residential real property into a
condominium project, as defined in Civil Code Section 1351(f).
   B.   Referral to Other Provisions. In addition to requirements and
procedures established by this Title, all condominium conversions, including,
without limitation, the conversion of existing multi-unit rental real property
into a condominium project shall be subject to the requirements established in
this Chapter.
   C.   Prior Notices to Prospective and Existing Tenants. Commencing at a date
not less than sixty (60) working days (excluding City recognized holidays)
prior to the filing of a tentative map or tentative parcel map, the subdivider
or his agent shall give written notice of such filing, in the forms specified
in the Subdivision Map Act, as appropriate, to all existing tenants and to each
person applying after such date for rental of a unit of the subject property
immediately prior to the acceptance of any rent or deposit from the prospective
tenant by the subdivider.
   D.   Additional Information Provided on or With Tentative Map.
      1.   Information Required. In addition to information otherwise required
by this Title, the following information shall be shown for a condominium
conversion on the tentative map or tentative parcel map, or in a separate
document, or on one or more separate map sheets:
         a.   The entire site with dimensions.
         b.   Footprints of all units with dimensions, and a block number and
letter identifying each unit.
         c.   The right-of-way and roadway width of all streets within or
adjacent to the site.
         d.   The rights-of-way and driveways within the site, together with
widths.
         e.   All existing and proposed parking spaces, together with
dimensions.
         f.   Existing and proposed landscaping with names of the trees and
plants.
         g.   Location and type of existing and proposed outdoor lighting.
         h.   Sidewalks within and adjacent to the site together with
dimensions.
            (1)   Location, height, and material of any existing and proposed
walls, fences, and hedges.
      2.   Additional Submittals. In addition to submittals otherwise required
by this Title, the following documents and information shall be submitted with
the tentative map or tentative parcel map application for a condominium
conversion:
         a.   A statement of repairs and improvements to be made by the
subdivider to refurbish and restore the building and other structures to
achieve compliance with applicable codes.
         b.   A copy of the declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions required by State law, which will apply to all owners of the
proposed condominium units.
         c.   Square footage and number of rooms in each unit.
         d.   Proposed homeowners' association dues.
         e.   Financing available for prospective buyers.
         f.   Evidence that written notification of intent to convert the units
into condominiums, was sent to and received by each of the existing tenants at
least sixty (60) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) before
filing of the tentative map or tentative parcel map and to each person applying
for rental of unit commencing at a date not less than sixty (60) working days
(excluding City recognized holidays) before the filing of a tentative map or
tentative parcel map.
   E.   Processing Tentative Subdivision Maps and Final Maps.
      1.   Except as required otherwise by this Chapter, the Subdivision Map
Act or other applicable law, the tentative map or tentative parcel map and
final map or final parcel map for a condominium conversion shall be reviewed
and processed under this Title, whichever is applicable.
      2.   No final map or final parcel map for a condominium conversion shall
be approved unless all the following findings are made:
         a.   Each existing tenant has received notification of intent to
convert, in compliance with Section 66452.3 of the Subdivision Map Act, at
least 60 working days (excluding City recognized holidays) before the filing of
the tentative map or tentative parcel map.
         b.   Each existing tenant and each person applying for rental of a
unit in the project has, or will have, received all applicable notices and
rights required by this Title and the Subdivision Map Act.
         c.   Each tenant has, or will have, received ten (10) working days
(excluding City recognized holidays) written notice that an application for a
public report will be, or has been, submitted to the California Department of
Real Estate and that such report will be available on request.
         d.   Each tenant of the proposed condominium conversion has been, or
will be, given written notification within ten (10) working days (excluding
City recognized holidays) of approval of a final map or a final parcel map.
         e.   Each tenant of the proposed condominium conversion has been, or
will be, given at least one hundred and eighty (180) working days (excluding
City recognized holidays) written notice of intention to convert before tenancy
is terminated due to the conversion or proposed conversion.
         f.   Each tenant of the proposed condominium conversion has been, or
will be, given notice of an exclusive right, in compliance with the Section
66427.1(d) of the Subdivision Map Act, to contract for the purchase of such
tenant's unit on the same terms and conditions that the unit will be initially
offered to the general public or terms more favorable to the tenant.
   F.   Other Provisions. In addition to the requirements of this Chapter, all
otherwise applicable provisions of this Title, the Subdivision Map Act and
other laws and regulations shall apply to the proposed condominium conversion.
This Chapter shall not diminish, limit, or expand, other than as provided
herein, the authority of the City to approve, disapprove or regulate
condominium conversions or condominium projects. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.14.030: REVERSION TO ACREAGE:
   A.   Reversion. Subdivided real property may revert to acreage pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 6 of the Subdivision Map Act and this Chapter.
Reversion to acreage occurs when previously subdivided property reverts to
acreage.
   B.   Initiation of Procedures.
      1.   By Owner(s). Proceedings to revert subdivided property to acreage
may be initiated by petition executed by all owners of record of the real
property within the subdivision.
      2.   By City Council. The City Council may, by resolution on its own
motion, initiate proceedings to revert subdivided property to acreage. The City
Council shall direct the Community Development Director to obtain the necessary
information to initiate and conduct the proceedings, including preparation and
giving of all required notices.
   C.   Petition. A reversion to acreage petition shall be on a form prescribed
by and available from the Community Development Department. The petition shall
be filed with the Community Development Department and shall include or be
accompanied by the following:
      1.   Petition Requirements. A tentative reversion to acreage map legibly
drawn on a sheet at least eighteen inches (18") by thirty-six-inches (36") but
not larger than twenty-four inches (24") by thirty-six inches (36"). There
shall be a blank one-inch margin completely around the sheet. The scale shall
be one-inch (1") is the same as one hundred feet (100'). The Community
Development Director may require a larger scale than submitted if deemed
necessary for clarity. All lettering shall be one eighth-inch (0.125") minimum
or typed of legible size. The tentative reversion to acreage map shall contain
the following information:
         a.   Name(s) and address(es) of all owner(s) of real property within
the subdivision proposed for reversion.
         b.   Date of preparation, north arrow, and scale.
         c.   Boundary lines of the property and approximate dimensions.
         d.   All existing structures and improvements located on the property,
together with their dimensions and the distances between them, the distances to
any lot lines and property lines and the height of each structure.
         e.   The name, width and location of each existing and proposed street
abutting or traversing the subdivision, a statement as to whether the street is
private or public, a statement as to whether the street improvements have been
installed and a statement as to whether the street is to remain after
reversion.
         f.   Location, purpose, width, and record owners of all existing and
proposed public and private easements and rights of way abutting or traversing
any part of the subdivision and a statement as to whether they will remain
after reversion. Easement and right of way boundaries shall be shown by means
of a dotted line.
         g.   An accurate legal description of the subdivision.
      2.   Preliminary Title Report; Other Evidence of Ownership. A preliminary
title report showing the owners of record of all property in the subdivision at
the time of filing the petition. The title report shall have been prepared not
more than ninety (90) working days (excluding City recognized holidays) before
the submittal of the petition. Upon request by the Community Development
Director, the applicant shall submit additional documents or other evidence, as
the Director deems necessary, to evidence record ownership of all property
within the subdivision.
      3.   Nonuse or Lack of Necessity Evidence. Evidence shall be provided for
the nonuse or lack of necessity for present or prospective public purposes of
streets, easements or other public ways which have been dedicated or offered
for dedication previously and which are to be vacated or abandoned.
      4.   Filing Fee. A fee for processing the reversion to acreage petition
in the amount established in the Master Fee Schedule.
      5.   Necessary Information. Any other information the Community
Development Director deems necessary.
   D.   Acceptance of Petition. Within seven (7) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) after receipt, the Community Development Director shall
determine whether the petition is complete. The Director shall notify the
applicant(s) of the determination in writing.
   E.   Petition Processing. Upon acceptance of the petition, including all
accompanying information, and after it is determined to be complete, the
Community Development Department shall process the petition as follows:
      1.   Petition Copies. Copies of the petition shall be forwarded to
affected agencies within five (5) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) after such acceptance, together with a request that they provide
their input or comments within twelve (12) working days (excluding City
recognized holidays) after the date of the request.
      2.   Public Hearing; Notification.
         a.   Public hearing on the proposed reversion to acreage and any
accompanying environmental assessment shall be set and held before the City
Council.
         b.   Notice of the public hearing before the City Council shall be
published, posted, and mailed in accordance with Government Code Sections 65090
and 65091.
   F.   City Council Action.
      1.   The City Council shall conduct the public hearing, shall consider
all relevant testimony and other evidence presented, and shall approve or
conditionally approve the reversion to acreage only if it finds that:
         a.   Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or abandoned by
the reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or prospective public
purposes; and
         b.   Either:
            (1)   All owners of an interest in the real property within the
subdivision have consented to reversion; or
            (2)   None of the improvements required to be made have been made
within twenty-four (24)-months from the date the final map or final parcel map
was filed for record or within the time allowed by agreement for completion of
the improvements, whichever is later; or
            (3)   No lots shown on the final map or final parcel map have been
sold within five (5) years from the date such map was filed for record.
      2.   The City Council shall request as conditions of the reversion:
         a.   The dedication or offers to dedicate all streets, easements and
rights of way required by this Chapter, the Zoning Code or any other city codes
or ordinances applicable to development of the real property after reversion.
         b.   The retention of all or a portion of previously paid fees,
deposits, or improvement securities if necessary to accomplish any of the
purposes of the Subdivision Map Act or this Title.
   G.   Filing With County Recorder. Upon the City Council's approval or
conditional approval of the reversion to acreage, and after all certificates
and signatures have been obtained on the final reversion to acreage map, the
Community Development Department shall forward the map to the Fresno County
Recorder's Office for its recordation. The reversion to acreage shall be
effective upon recordation of the map. Thereupon, all dedications and offers of
dedication not shown on the recorded final map or final parcel map shall be of
no further force or effect. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.14.040: MERGER OF CONTIGUOUS PARCELS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to authorize the voluntary
merger of contiguous parcels under common ownership consistent with Government
Code Sections 66451.11 and 66499.20.3.
   B.   Requirements. The owner of any contiguous parcel may initiate the
merger of any parcel. The Community Development Director, City Engineer,
Planning Commission or City Council may require the owner of any contiguous
parcel to request the merger of any or all contiguous parcels within the City
in conjunction with the giving of any Variance, Conditional Use Permit, or any
other entitlement approval under this Title or the Zoning Code.
   C.   Application. A property owner or owners of contiguous parcels may apply
for a parcel merger by submitting an application to the Community Development
Director. The proposed parcel merger shall meet all the following requirements:
      1.   The merger does not affect any fees, grants, easements, agreements,
conditions, dedications, offers to dedicate or security provided in connection
with any approvals of divisions of real property or lot line adjustments; and
      2.   The boundaries of the parcels to be merged are well defined in
existing recorded documents or filed maps and were legally created or have
certificates of compliance issued on them; and
      3.   The merger will not alter the exterior boundary of the parcels to be
merged; and
      4.   The document used to effect the merger contains an accurate
description of the exterior boundary on which the property is located; and
      5.   The parcels to be merged are both consistent with applicable general
plan land use designation and policies (residential, commercial, and industrial
policies); and
      6.   The merger complies with the building and zoning requirements for
the zones in which the parcels are located; and
      7.   All parties having any record title interest in the real property
affected have consented to the merger on a form and in a manner set forth in
the application and approved by the City. Consent is not required from the
interests that are excepted from the requirements to consent to the preparation
and recordation of final maps under Government Code Section 66436; and
      8.   All necessary fees and requirements, including a fee for recording
the documents, have been provided.
   D.   Procedures. The application, procedure and reviewing authorities are
the same as those required for a lot line adjustment under this Title,
including appeal procedures.
   E.   Effective Date of Merger. The merger of any contiguous parcels shall
become effective upon recordation of a Certificate of Compliance with the
County Recorder. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
CHAPTER 11.16
DEDICATIONS AND RESERVATIONS
SECTION:
11.16.010: Dedications
11.16.020: Acceptance And Rejection Of Dedications
11.16.030: Certificate For Dedications - Reconveyance
11.16.040: Reservations
11.16.050: Standards For Reservations
11.16.060: Reservation Procedures
11.16.010 DEDICATIONS:
As a condition of approval of a tentative map or tentative parcel map, the City
may require dedication or irrevocable offer of dedication of real property
within a subdivision for public use. For purposes of this Chapter, dedications
include, but are not limited to, streets, bikeways, parks, landscaping,
recreation facilities, irrigation ditches, school sites, alleys, including
waiver of access rights and abutter's rights, drainage, public utility
easements, and other public easements.
The City may also require the design of a subdivision for which a tentative map
or tentative parcel map is required to provide one or more cable television
systems, duly franchised by the City, an opportunity to construct, install, and
maintain on land identified on the map as dedicated or to be dedicated to
public utility use any equipment necessary to extend cable television service
to each residential parcel in the subdivision. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.16.020: ACCEPTANCE AND REJECTION OF DEDICATIONS:
When the City Council approves a final map or final parcel map, it shall also
accept, accept subject to improvement or reject any offers of dedication. The
City Clerk shall certify or state on the final map or final parcel map the
action of the City Council. Acceptance of offers of dedication on a final map
or final parcel map shall not be effective until the final map or final parcel
map is recorded by the Fresno County's Recorder Office. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
11.16.030: CERTIFICATE FOR DEDICATIONS - RECONVEYANCE:
   A.   The City shall record a certificate with the Fresno County's Recorder
Office for all property which has been dedicated in fee for public purposes
other than for open space, park, or schools. This certificate shall be attached
to the final map or final parcel map and shall include:
      1.   Name and address of subdivider dedicating the property.
      2.   Legal description of the dedicated property.
      3.   A statement that the City shall reconvey the property to the
subdivider if the City Council determines that the same public purpose for
which the property was dedicated does not exist, or the property or any portion
thereof is not needed for public utilities.
   B.   The subdivider may request the City to determine whether the same
public purpose for which dedication was required still exists. The City may
charge the subdivider a fee in the amount reasonably required to make such
determination and in compliance with the Master Fee Schedule.
   C.   If the City Council determines that the same purpose for which a
dedication was required does not exist, the City shall reconvey the property to
the subdivider or his successor in interest, except any portion of the property
required for that same public purpose or for public utilities. (Ord. 2024-002,
9-20-2024)
11.16.040: RESERVATIONS:
As a condition of approval of a tentative map or tentative parcel map, the City
may require, to the extent permitted by law, that areas of real property within
a subdivision be reserved for public use. For purposes of this Chapter, such
reservations include, but are not limited to, sites appropriate for
recreational facilities, fire stations, libraries, and other public uses. (Ord.
2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.16.050: STANDARDS FOR RESERVATIONS:
Reservations required in connection with subdivisions shall be subject to the
following conditions:
   A.   The required reservation(s) shall be based on and in accordance with
policies and standards for such public uses contained in the adopted General
Plan or any adopted specific plan.
   B.   The ordinance has been in effect for a period of at least thirty (30)
working days (excluding City recognized holidays) before the filing of the
tentative map.
   C.   The reserved area(s) shall be of such size and shape as to permit the
balance of the property within which the reservation(s) are located to develop
in an orderly and efficient manner.
   D.   The amount of land reserved shall not make development of the remaining
land held by the subdivider economically unfeasible.
   E.   Each reserved area shall conform to the adopted General Plan or any
adopted specific plan and shall be in such multiples of streets and parcels as
to allow an efficient division of the reserved area in the event the City or
other public agency does not acquire it within the time allowed by this
Chapter. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.16.060: RESERVATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   The public agency for whose benefit an area has been reserved shall, at
the time of final map or final parcel map approval, enter into a binding
agreement to acquire such reserved area within twenty-four (24)-months after
the completion and acceptance of all improvements. Such period of time may be
extended by mutual agreement.
      The purchase price for the reserved area shall be the market value
thereof at the time of the filing of the tentative map or tentative parcel map,
plus the taxes against such reserved area from the date of the reservation and
any other costs incurred by the subdivider in the maintenance of the reserved
area, including interest costs on any loan covering the reserved area.
   B.   If the public agency for whose benefit an area has been reserved does
not enter into a binding agreement as described in Subsection A of this
Section, the reservation shall automatically terminate. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
CHAPTER 11.18
ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES, REMEDIES
SECTION:
11.18.010: Prohibition
11.18.020: Remedies
11.18.030: Certificate Of Compliance
11.18.040: Notice Of Violation
11.18.050: Penalties
11.18.060: Judicial Review
11.18.010: PROHIBITION:
   A.   No person shall finance, lease, or sell any parcel or parcels of real
property or start construction of any building for financing, lease, or sale,
except for model homes, or allow occupancy thereof, for which a final map or
final parcel map is required by this Title until a final map or final parcel
map, in full compliance with this title and the Subdivision Map Act, has been
filed for record by the County Recorder's Office.
   B.   Conveyances of any part of a division of property for which a final map
or final parcel map is required shall not be made by parcel number or other
designation, unless and until the final map or final parcel map has been filed
for record by the County Recorder's Office.
   C.   Subsections A and B of this Section do not apply to any parcel or
parcels of a subdivision offered for sale or lease, contract for sale or lease,
or sold or leased in compliance with or exempt from any law, including this
Title or other City ordinance, regulating subdivision design and improvements
in effect at the time the subdivision was established.
   D.   Nothing contained in either Subsection A or B of this section shall
prohibit an offer or contract to finance, lease or sell property or to
construct improvements thereon where the financing, lease or sale or the start
of construction is expressly conditioned upon the approval and filing of a
final map or final parcel map as required by this title and the Subdivision Map
Act. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.18.020: REMEDIES:
   A.   Nothing in this Chapter or in any other provision of this Title shall
bar any legal, equitable or summary remedy to which the City, any other public
agency, or any person, firm or corporation may otherwise be entitled. The City,
such other public agency, or such person, firm or corporation may file a suit
in the Superior Court of Fresno County to restrain or enjoin any attempted or
proposed subdivision or financing, lease or sale in violation of the
Subdivision Map Act or this Title.
   B.   The City shall not issue a permit or grant any approval necessary to
develop any real property which has been divided, or which has resulted from a
division, in violation of the provisions of this title or the Subdivision Map
Act if the City finds that such development would be contrary to public health
or safety. The authority to deny such a permit or such approval shall apply
whether the applicant therefor was the owner of record of the property at the
time of the violation or whether the applicant is the current owner of record
of the property, or a vendee of the current owner of record pursuant to a
contract of sale for the property with, or without, actual or constructive
knowledge of the violation at the time of acquiring his interest in the
property.
   C.   If the City issues a permit or grants approval for the development of
any property subdivided, financed, sold, or leased in violation of this title
or the Subdivision Map Act, the City may impose those conditions which would
have been applicable to division of the property at the time the applicant
acquired his interest in the property. However, if the applicant was the owner
of record at the time of the initial violation, and by grant created a parcel
or parcels in violation of this title or the Subdivision Map Act, the City may
impose conditions applicable to a current division of the property. If a
conditional certificate of compliance has been filed for record, only those
conditions stipulated therein shall be applicable. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.18.030: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Request for Property Compliance. Any person owning real property or a
vendee of that person under a contract of sale may request, in writing, the
Community Development Director to determine, and the Director shall determine,
whether the property complies with the provisions of this Title and the s
Subdivision Map Act.
   B.   Certificate Issued and Recorded. Upon making the determination that the
property complies with this Title and the Subdivision Map Act, the Community
Development Director shall issue a certificate of compliance and cause it to be
filed for record with the County Recorder. The certificate of compliance shall
identify the property and state that the division of land complies with this
Title and the Subdivision Map Act.
   C.   Conditional Certificate. If the Community Development Director
determines that the property does not comply with the provisions of this Title
or the Subdivision Map Act, the Director may, as a condition of granting a
certificate of compliance, impose conditions as allowed by this Title. Upon
deciding and establishing the conditions, the city shall issue a conditional
certificate of compliance and cause it to be filed for record with the Fresno
County Recorder's Office. The certificate shall serve as notice to property
owner or vendee who has applied for the certificate, a grantee of the property
owner, and any transferee or assignee of the property, that the fulfillment and
implementation of these conditions shall be required prior to subsequent
issuance of a permit or other grant of approval for development of the
property. Compliance with the conditions shall not be required until a permit
or other grant of approval for development of the property is issued by the
City.
   D.   Approval for Development. A certificate of compliance shall be issued
for any property which has been approved for development pursuant to Subsection
11.18.020  (Remedies) of this Chapter.
   E.   Information as Required By Community Development Director. Each
certificate of compliance or conditional certificate of compliance shall
contain all information the Community Development Director deems necessary,
including, but not limited to, all the information specified in Section
66499.35(f) of the Subdivision Map Act.
   F.   Fee. The applicant shall pay a fee specified in the Master Fee
Schedule.
   G.   Appeal. The applicant or any interested person adversely affected may
appeal any action of the Community Development Director with respect to the
certificate of compliance or conditional certificate of compliance to the
Planning Commission. The appeal shall be filed, noticed, heard, and decided
according to the procedures, rules, burdens, and requirements established by
this Title. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.18.040: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
If the Community Development Director has knowledge that property has been
divided in violation of the provisions of this Title or the Subdivision Map
Act, a notice of intention to record a notice of violation shall be mailed by
certified mail to the current owner of record. The notice shall describe the
property in detail, name the owner(s), describe the violation and state that an
opportunity will be given to the owner(s) to present evidence. The notice shall
also contain an explanation of why the subject parcel is not lawful under
Subsection A or B of Section 66412.6 of the Subdivision Map Act. The notice
shall contain the date, time, and place for a meeting at which time the owner
(s) may present evidence to the Director, serving as advisory agency for this
purpose, why a notice of violation should not be recorded.
The meeting shall take place no sooner than thirty (30) working days (excluding
City recognized holidays) and no later than sixty (60) working days (excluding
City recognized holidays) from the date of mailing. If the owner(s) of the
property fails, within fifteen (15) working days (excluding City recognized
holidays) after receipt of a notice of violation, to inform the Community
Development Director in writing of objection to recording of the notice, the
director shall record the notice of violation with the Fresno County Recorder's
Office. If, after the owner(s) have presented evidence, it is determined that
there has been no violation, the Director shall mail a clearance letter to the
current owner of record. If, however, after the owner(s) have presented
evidence, the director determines that the property has in fact been illegally
divided, the Director shall record the notice of violation with the County
Recorder. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.18.050: PENALTIES:
Each act prohibited by Section
11.18.010 (Prohibition), of this Chapter, or any other violation of this Title,
is a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in the general penalty in
Section
1-4-1 (Violation; Misdemeanor) of the Reedley City Code. This penalty is in
addition to any penalty specified in Section 66499.31 of the Subdivision Map
Act. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.18.060: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any action or proceeding to object to, review, set aside, void or annul the
decision of the Community Development Director, the Community Development
Department, the Planning Commission, the advisory agency or the City Council
concerning a subdivision, or of any of the proceedings, acts or determinations
taken, done or made prior to such decision, or to determine the reasonableness,
legality or validity of any condition attached to such decision, shall not be
maintained by any person unless it is commenced and service of summons is
effected within ninety (90) working days (excluding City recognized holidays)
after the date of the decision. Thereafter, all persons are barred from any
such action or proceeding or any defense of invalidity or unreasonableness of
the decision or of such proceedings, condition, acts, or determinations. (Ord.
2024-002, 9-20-2024)
CHAPTER 11.20
URBAN LOT SPLITS
SECTION:
11.20.010: Purpose
11.20.020: Applicability
11.20.030: Application
11.20.040: Form
11.20.050: Filing And Processing
11.20.060: Standards
11.20.070: Action
11.20.010: PURPOSE:
This Chapter provides requirements for the subdivision of land considered as
urban lot splits as specified in Government Code Section 66411.7 by:
   A.   Establishing objective standards and regulations to govern the review
and approval of urban lot splits;
   B.   Establishing a ministerial process to approve an urban lot split in
accordance with Government Code Section 66411.7; and
   C.   Promoting the development of small ownership or rental housing units
designed to meet the housing needs of individuals and families, particularly
those of low and moderate incomes. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.20.020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply within any single-unit residential
dwelling zoning district or any planned development zone district where single-
unit residential dwelling uses are allowed. This Chapter shall not apply in the
following situations:
   A.   Projects located on parcels that are included on the State Historic
Resources Inventory, as defined in Public Resources Code Section 5020.1, or
within a site that is designated or listed as a City or County landmark or
historic property or district pursuant to a city or county ordinance.
   B.   Projects located on any parcel described in Government Code Sections
65913.4(a)(6)(B) through (K), as may be amended.
   C.   Projects involving the demolition or alteration of any of the
following:
      1.   Housing that is subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or law
that restricts rents to levels affordable to persons and families of moderate,
low, or very low income.
      2.   Housing that is subject to any form of rent or price control through
a public entity's valid exercise of its police power.
      3.   Housing that has been occupied by a rental tenant at any time within
the last three years.
   D.   Projects located on parcels which an owner of residential real property
has exercised the owner's rights under Chapter 12.75 (commencing with Section
7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the California Government Code to withdraw
accommodations from rent or lease within the last fifteen (15) years.
   E.   Any parcel previously subdivided through prior exercise of an urban lot
split as provided for under this Chapter.
   F.   Any parcel proposing to be subdivided that is adjacent to another
parcel where either the owner of the parcel proposing to be subdivided or any
person acting in concert with said owner has previously subdivided that
adjacent parcel using the provisions in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-
2024)
11.20.030: APPLICATION:
A Zone Clearance in compliance with Chapter 10.88 (Zone Clearance) shall be
required for all proposed urban lot splits and approved ministerially without
discretionary review. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.20.040: FORM:
An urban lot split application shall be submitted to the Community Development
Director in the format and number of copies specified by the Director. The
application shall contain all the information, documents, and diagrams
specified for the application by the Director, unless the Director waives any
of the requirements. The application shall be accompanied by the fee
established by the Master Fee Schedule. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.20.050: FILING AND PROCESSING:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other requirement under this Chapter, the City
shall ministerially review and approve applications for an urban lot split,
without public hearings or discretionary review, subject only to the
requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   The parcel map shall be filed with the City Engineer for their
examination for conformance to this Division and the Map Act. (Ord. 2024-002,
9-20-2024)
11.20.060: STANDARDS:
All property development standards for an urban lot split shall comply with all
applicable State laws and the following standards:
   A.   Parcels shall not be smaller than forty percent (40%) of the lot area
of the original parcel.
   B.   Each parcel shall have a minimum net area of one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet.
   C.   Parcels shall have a minimum width of thirty feet (30') .
   D.   Parcels shall have a minimum depth of forty feet (40') .
   E.   Each parcel shall provide for direct vehicular access to and have a
minimum frontage of thirty feet (30') on the public right-of-way.
   F.   Public utility, service and/or access easements shall be provided
within the subdivision where required for public utility purposes, in
accordance with this Chapter.
   G.   Notwithstanding the requirements of this Chapter or the Code,
dedications of rights-of-way or the construction of off-site improvements for
the parcels being created shall not be required.
   H.   The design and layout of parcel improvements shall conform to the
engineering standards and to such objective standards as approved by the City
Engineer per Chapter 12 (Subdivision Design and Improvements) that are in
effect at the time of the parcel map application submittal.
   I.   Prior to, or at the time of the recordation of the final map, the
property owner shall execute a deed restriction that shall be recorded with the
Fresno County Recorder's Office, stating the following:
      1.   That the applicant intends to occupy the primary dwelling unit or a
unit qualified under applicable State law as their principal residence for a
minimum of three years from the date of the approval of the subdivision. This
requirement shall not apply if the applicant is a community land trust, or a
qualified nonprofit corporation as provided in the California Revenue and
Taxation Code Sections 402.1 and 214.15.
      2.   That a rental of any dwelling unit created pursuant to this Chapter
be for a term longer than thirty (30) days.
      3.   That the uses allowed on a lot created by this section shall be
limited to residential uses.
      4.   That a maximum of two (2) dwelling units of any kind (including
primary units and ADUs/JADUs) shall be permitted on a lot created through an
urban lot split.
      5.   That parcels resulting from the urban lot split were created using
the provisions of this Chapter and Government Code Section 66411.7, and that no
further subdivision of the parcels is permitted.
   J.   The parcel map created pursuant to an urban lot split shall contain a
note on the map indicating that parcels resulting from the urban lot split were
created using the provisions of this Chapter and Government Code Section
66411.7, and that no further subdivision of the parcels is permitted.
   K.   The proposed urban lot split shall comply with all other applicable
objective requirements of this Title and the Subdivision Map Act Section 66410
et seq., except as otherwise provided for in this Chapter. In the event of a
conflict between the requirements of this Chapter and the requirements
contained elsewhere in this Code, the provisions of this Chapter shall apply to
the review and approval of urban lot splits. (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
11.20.070: ACTION:
Final action of a parcel map for an urban lot split shall comply with the
standards and procedures established in
Chapter 10.88 (Zone Clearance). (Ord. 2024-002, 9-20-2024)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Authorization; Findings; Purpose; Methods
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: General Provisions
12-1-4: Administration
12-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-6: Variance Procedures; Nature Of Variances
12-1-1: AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS; PURPOSE; METHODS:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state has in Government
Code sections 65302, 65560, and 65800 conferred upon local government units
authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the city council does hereby
adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and
velocities also contribute to the flood loss.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blighted areas caused by flood damage;
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      8.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 95-001, 2-14-1995)
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel, and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition and channel migration.
APEX: The point of highest elevation on an alluvial fan, which on undisturbed
fans is generally the point where the major stream that formed the fan emerges
from the mountain front.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this chapter.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community which
is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. The area
may be designated as zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the 100-year flood). Base flood is the
term used throughout this chapter.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (i.e., below
ground level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazard and the floodway.
FLOOD, FLOODING OR FLOODWATER: A. A general and temporary condition of partial
or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland
or tidal waters; the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source; and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows); and
B. The condition resulting from flood related erosion. See definition of Flood
Related Erosion.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP: The official map on which the federal emergency
management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated the areas
of flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map, the
flood boundary and floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a
lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood related erosion damage
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood related
erosion control works and floodplain management regulations.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION AREA OR FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA: A land area
adjoining the shore of a lake or other body of water which, due to the
composition of the shoreline or bank and high water levels or wind driven
currents, is likely to suffer flood related erosion damage.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This chapter and zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other applications of
police power which control development in flood prone areas. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations in any combination thereof which
provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source. See definition of Flood, Flooding Or Floodwater.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
Also referred to as "regulatory floodway".
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local floodplain maps.
FLOODWAY FRINGE: That area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted.
FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION: As related to section
12-1-6 of this chapter, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on
or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the city will
consider the fact that every newly constructed building adds to government
responsibilities and remains a part of the community for fifty (50) to one
hundred (100) years. Buildings that are permitted to be constructed below the
base flood elevation are subject, during all those years, to increased risk of
damage from floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a
whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that
those increased flood damages bring. In addition, future owners may purchase
the property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, and does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HARDSHIP: As related to section
12-1-6 of this chapter, means the exceptional hardship that would result from a
failure to grant the requested variance. The city requires that the variance be
exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or
financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic
considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences or the disapproval of
one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship.
All of these problems can be resolved through other means without granting a
variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property
owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally
intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states with approved programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement.
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area (see
definition of Basement) is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided,
that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter. (Note: This
definition allows attached garages to be built at grade. Below grade garages
are not allowed as they are considered to be basements.)
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, means structures for
which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
floodplain management regulations adopted by this community, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by this community.
OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, snare or collect debris carried by the flow of
water, or is likely to be carried downstream.
ONE HUNDRED YEAR OR 100-YEAR FLOOD: See definition of Base Flood.
PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE: A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of sand
with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides
and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal
dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
mild slope.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure used for the principal use of the property as
distinguished from an accessory use.
PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE: As related to section
12-1-6 of this chapter, means that the granting of a variance must not result
in anything which is injurious to safety or health of an entire community,
neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the
free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, river,
bay, stream, canal or basin.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
(1').
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including tributaries),
stream, brook, etc.
SHEET FLOW AREA: See definition of Area Of Shallow Flooding.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): An area having special flood, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow), or flood related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as
zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, AH, E, M.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, that is principally aboveground. This
includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (Ord. 2012-003, 9-11-2012)
12-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all areas
of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 95-001, 2-
14-1995)
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency
(FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FIS) for Fresno County, California, dated
February 18, 2009, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and
flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs) dated February 18, 2009, and all
subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. This FIS and attendant mapping is the
minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by
studies for other areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which
are recommended to the city by the floodplain administrator. The study, FIRMs
and FBFMs are on file at city hall, 845 G Street, Reedley, CA 93654. (Ord.
2012-003, 9-11-2012)
   C.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of the requirements
(including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection
with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prevent
the city council from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   E.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the city; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city, any officer or employee thereof, the state, or the federal
insurance administration, federal emergency management agency, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   G.   Severability: This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby
declared to be severable. Should any section of this chapter be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole or any portion thereof, other than the
section so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 95-001, 2-14-1995)
12-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Establishment Of Development Permit: A development permit shall be
obtained before any construction or other development begins within any area of
special flood hazard established in subsection 12-1-3B of this chapter.
Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the
floodplain administrator and may include, but not be limited to: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevation
of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of
materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures; in zone AO, elevation of highest
adjacent grade and proposed elevation of lowest floor of all structures; or
      2.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
structure will be floodproofed, if required in section
12-1-5 of this chapter; and
      3.   All appropriate certifications listed in subsection C of this
section; and
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 95-001, 2-14-1995)
   B.   Designation Of Floodplain Administrator: The building official is
hereby appointed to administer, implement and enforce this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions. (Ord. 2012-
003, 9-11-2012)
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator: The duties and
responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Permit Review: Review all development permits to determine that:
         a.   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         b.   All other required state and federal permits shall have been
obtained;
         c.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding; and
         d.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this chapter, "adversely
affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point.
      2.   Review And Use Of Any Other Base Flood Data: When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal or state agency, or other source in order to administer section
12-1-5 of this chapter. Any such information shall be submitted to the city for
adoption.
      3.   Notification Of Other Agencies: In alteration or relocation of a
watercourse:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the California department of
water resources prior to alteration or relocation;
         b.   Submit evidence of such notification to the federal insurance
administration, federal emergency management agency; and
         c.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      4.   Documentation Of Floodplain Development: Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         a.   Certification required by subsection
12-1-5A3a of this chapter (floor elevations);
         b.   Certification required by subsection
12-1-5A3b of this chapter (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential
structures);
         c.   Certification required by subsection
12-1-5A3c of this chapter (wet floodproofing standard);
         d.   Certification of elevation required by subsection
12-1-5C1 of this chapter (subdivision standards);
         e.   Certification required by subsection
12-1-5F1 of this chapter (floodway encroachments);
      5.   Map Determinations: Make interpretations where needed as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard; for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions. The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in section
12-1-6 of this chapter.
      6.   Remedial Action: Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as
specified in subsection
12-1-3C of this chapter.
   D.   Appeals: The city council shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made
by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter. (Ord. 95-001, 2-14-1995)
12-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   Standards Of Construction: In all areas of special flood hazard the
following standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy.
         b.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of
subsection D of this section.
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements, including manufactured homes, shall be constructed:
         a.   With flood resistant materials, and utility equipment resistant
to flood damage for areas below the base flood elevation;
         b.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
         c.   With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding; and
         d.   If within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage
paths around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from
proposed structures.
      3.   Elevation And Floodproofing:
         a.   Residential Construction: Residential construction, new or
substantial improvement, shall have the lowest floor, including basement:
            (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height exceeding the depth specified in feet on the FIRM by at least one foot
(1'), or elevated at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if
no depth number is specified.
            (2)   In an A zone, elevated at least one foot (1') above the base
flood elevation, as determined by the city.
            (3)   In all other zones, elevated at least one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor, or verified by the city engineer or city building official to be
properly elevated. Such certification or verification shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator.
         b.   Nonresidential Construction: Nonresidential construction shall
either be elevated to conform with subsection A3a of this section or together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
            (1)   Be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under
subsection A3a of this section so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
            (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
            (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the standards of this subsection A3b are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator.
         c.   Flood Openings: All new construction and substantial improvement
with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which
are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwater. Designs for meeting this requirement must exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            (1)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect; or
            (2)   For nonengineered openings:
               (A)   Have a minimum of two (2) openings on different sides
having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot
of enclosed area subject to flooding.
               (B)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one
foot (1') above grade.
               (C)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwater.
               (D)   Buildings with more than one enclosed area must have
openings on exterior walls for each area to allow floodwater to directly enter.
         d.   Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes shall also meet the
standards in subsection D of this section.
   B.   Standards For Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         a.   Infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
         b.   Discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      2.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them, or contamination from them, during flooding.
   C.   Standards For Subdivisions And Other Proposed Development:
      1.   All new subdivision proposals and other proposed development,
including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions, greater than
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser, shall:
         a.   Identify the special flood hazard area (SFHA) and the base flood
elevation (BFE).
         b.   Identify the elevations of lowest floors of all proposed
structures and pads on the final plans.
         c.   If the site is filled above the base flood elevation, the
following as built information for each structure shall be certified by a
registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor and provided as part of an
application for a letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) to the
floodplain administrator.
      2.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      3.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      4.   All subdivisions and other proposed development shall provide
adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards. (Ord. 2012-003, 9-11-
2012)
   D.   Standards For Manufactured Homes:
      1.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's flood insurance rate map, on
sites located:
         a.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision,
         b.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision,
         c.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or
         d.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is elevated at least one foot (1') above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      2.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on
sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-30,
AH, AE, V1-30, V and VE on the community's flood insurance rate map that are
not subject to the provisions of subsection D1 of this section will be elevated
so that either the:
         a.   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated at least one
foot (1') above the base flood elevation, or
         b.   Manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
   E.   Standards For Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   All recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30, AH and
AE on the community's flood insurance rate map will either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions; or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of section
12-1-4 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in subsection D1 of this section.
      2.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones V1-30, V and VE
on the community's flood insurance rate map will meet the requirements of
subsection E1 of this section.
   F.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection 12-1-3B of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the
floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following
provisions apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvement and other new development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base flood elevation
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection F1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction,
substantial improvement and other proposed new development shall comply with
all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section.
   G.   Flood Related Erosion Prone Areas:
      1.   The floodplain administrator shall require permits for proposed
construction and other development within all flood related erosion prone areas
as known to the community.
      2.   Permit applications shall be reviewed to determine whether the
proposed site alterations and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood
related erosion and will not cause flood related erosion hazards or otherwise
aggravate the existing hazard.
      3.   If a proposed improvement is found to be in the path of flood
related erosion or would increase the erosion hazard, such improvement shall be
relocated or adequate protective measures shall be taken to avoid aggravating
the existing erosion hazard.
      4.   Within zone E on the flood insurance rate map, a setback is required
for all new development from the riverfront or other body of water to create a
safety buffer consisting of a natural vegetative or contour strip. This buffer
shall be designated according to the flood related erosion hazard and erosion
rate, in relation to the anticipated useful life of structures, and depending
upon the geologic, hydrologic, topographic and climatic characteristics of the
land. The buffer may be used for suitable open space purposes, such as for
agricultural, forestry, outdoor recreation and wildlife habitat areas and for
other activities using temporary and portable structures only. (Ord. 95-001, 2-
14-1995)
12-1-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURES; NATURE OF VARIANCES:
The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the general
principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are
not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of property with
physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements of
this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or the
surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be unique to the property
and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain
to the land itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants or the property
owners.
It is the duty of the city to help protect its citizens from flooding. This
need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a structure
built below flood level are so serious that variances from the flood elevation
or from other requirements in this chapter are quite rare.
   A.   Appeal Board:
      1.   The city council shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter. In passing upon requests for variances, the
city council shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
         b.   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
         c.   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage, and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
         d.   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
         e.   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
         h.   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   Safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
         j.   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
         k.   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system and streets and bridges.
      2.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice by the city that:
         a.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage; and
         b.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the floodplain
administrator in the office of the county recorder.
      3.   The floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal insurance administration
of the federal emergency management agency.
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of sections
12-1-4 and
12-1-5 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing
the variance increases.
      2.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of an
historic structure, as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter, upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      3.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. "Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. In the case of variances to an elevation
requirement, this means the city need not grant permission for the applicant to
build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant proposes, but only
to that elevation which the city believes will both provide relief and preserve
the integrity of this chapter.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship", as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter, to the applicant; and
         c.   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary
public expense; create a nuisance 1 , cause fraud or victimization of the
public, as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      6.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided that the provisions of subsections B1
through B5 of this section are satisfied and that the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damage during the base
flood and does not result in additional threats to public safety and does not
create a public nuisance.
      7.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection A5 of this section
and the purposes of this chapter, the city may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter. (Ord. 95-001, 2-14-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See "public safety and nuisance" as defined in section
  12-1-2 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 2
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Definitions
12-2-2: Permit Required To Construct
12-2-3: Private Or Single Purpose
12-2-4: Storm Drainage Systems
12-2-5: Acreage Charge
12-2-6: Construction Fund
12-2-7: Feasibility Of Funding And/Or Construction
12-2-8: Funding And/Or Construction, Not Feasible
12-2-9: Connection
12-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
CONNECTION: The act of installing and/or constructing any improvement with the
purpose of allowing stormwater runoff to directly or indirectly enter a storm
drainage system from or because of such improvement.
COVERED AREA: Area of a property covered by improvements including, but not
limited to, roofs, walkways, parking lots, etc.
DEVELOPER: Any individual, firm, association, corporation, partnership, trust
or other legal entity engaged in development.
DEVELOPMENT: The construction or arranging for the construction of buildings,
dwellings or any other improvements on property not previously developed that
would increase the stormwater runoff. Reference is made to subsection 12-2-5D
of this section, for exceptions to this chapter.
PRIVATE OR SINGLE PURPOSE STORM DRAINS: Any storm drainage system not within
public streets, alleys, easements or property or which is specifically intended
to benefit a specific property and/or development and not the general area as a
whole.
REDEVELOPER: Any individual, firm, association, corporation, partnership, trust
or other legal entity engaged in redevelopment.
REDEVELOPMENT: The construction or arranging for the construction of buildings
or dwellings or additions thereto, or any other improvements on property
previously developed that would increase the covered area of the property.
Reference is made to subsection 12-2-5D of this chapter, for exceptions to this
chapter.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Any improvement specifically intended for the conveyance
and/or retention of stormwater runoff which is located within public streets,
alleys, easements or property and which benefits the general area as a whole.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: All that rainwater arriving at and/or originating on the
property being developed or redeveloped which by reason of topography, geology
or any other obstruction is not retained and which does not infiltrate into the
ground within the confines of the property being developed or redeveloped by
means or methods considered to be a "storm drainage system" as herein defined.
SUBDIVIDER: As defined in section
11-1-4 of this code.
SUBDIVISION OR DIVISIONS OF LAND: As defined in section
11-1-4 of this code. (Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
12-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a storm drainage system in a
public street, alley, easement or property without first receiving a permit to
do so and complying with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
12-2-3: PRIVATE OR SINGLE PURPOSE:
This chapter is not intended to provide funding for planning, engineering,
administration and construction of private or single purpose storm drains which
are not within public streets, alleys, easements or property, or which are
specifically intended to benefit a specific property and/or development and not
the general area as a whole. (Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
12-2-4: STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS:
This chapter is intended to provide for planning, engineering, administration
and construction of storm drainage systems which will be constructed within
public streets, alleys, easements or property and which benefit the general
area as a whole, and are required for the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the city.
Storm drainage systems would include all necessary rights of way, property and
improvements specifically intended for the conveyance and/or retention of
stormwater runoff excluding street improvements, such as curbs and gutters,
cross gutters, sidewalks, driveways, "V" gutters and paving; and all other
improvements not specifically intended for the conveyance and/or retention of
stormwater runoff unless such improvements are damaged or destroyed because of
construction of a storm drainage system then it shall be considered that the
repair or replacement of such improvements are part of the storm drainage
system. (Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
12-2-5: ACREAGE CHARGE:
   A.   Before development or redevelopment of any property, there shall be
paid a storm drainage acreage charge in accordance with the cost per acre as
established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   The property owner's, developer's, or redeveloper's obligation under
this chapter shall be for his pro rata share of cost of storm drainage systems
as determined by the city engineer and is not limited to the amount of the
storm drainage system charge as set forth in this chapter.
   C.   The charge shall be used to reimburse the city for construction of
storm drainage systems, to provide the city with funds for construction of
storm drainage systems and to reimburse others who have constructed or advanced
the cost of construction of the storm drainage systems. The charge shall be
paid to the city prior to development or redevelopment of any property and the
issuance of any permits to develop or redevelop such property.
   D.   The charge shall not apply to property under the following
circumstances:
      1.   Property for which development or redevelopment is being proposed
has paid a storm drainage acreage charge to the city since September 15, 1972.
      2.   The cost of a building addition, remodeling or accessory building
construction the building permit valuation for which is less than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) within a twelve (12) month period and there
results an increase of less than fifteen percent (15%) in covered area of the
property or an increase of less than three thousand (3,000) square feet in
covered area of the property, whichever is less, as a result of the addition or
accessory building construction. The increases in covered area referred to in
this subsection shall be accumulative over the life of the original
improvements as they exist on the date of adoption hereof.
      3.   The reconstruction of an existing building which has been destroyed
by fire or natural disaster, either partially or completely; provided that,
based on the covered area generated by the original building before said
destruction, such reconstruction results in an increase of less than fifteen
percent (15%) in covered area of the property or an increase of less than three
thousand (3,000) square feet in covered area of the property, whichever is
less.
      4.   Construction of a swimming pool, patio cover, driveway or driveway
approach or construction, modification or enlargement of concrete or asphalt
surfaces all incidental to an existing single-family residential use.
      5.   Construction of awnings, driveways or driveway approaches or
construction, modification or enlargement of concrete or asphalt surfaces all
incidental to an existing use other than single-family residential which
results in an increase of less than fifteen percent (15%) in covered area or an
increase less than three thousand (3,000) square feet in covered area of the
property, which ever is less. The increases in covered area referred to in this
subsection shall be accumulative over the life of the original improvements as
they exist on the date of adoption hereof.
   E.   The charge shall be computed on the gross area of the property being
improved, such area being defined as the parcel of land being developed or
redeveloped including half of all adjacent dedicated streets and alleys, and
all of interior dedicated streets and alleys.
   F.   The charge shall be levied and payable to prior to issuance of a
building permit, approval of conditional use permit or approval of final map,
or parcel map, whichever comes first. (Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
12-2-6: CONSTRUCTION FUND:
There is hereby established and set up a storm drainage construction fund. All
money collected from the storm drainage systems acreage charge shall be placed
in said fund and disbursed therefrom to reimburse the city for construction of
storm drainage systems, to provide the city with funds for construction of
storm drainage systems and to reimburse others who have constructed or advanced
the construction of storm drainage systems as provided for in this chapter. All
interest earned on monies deposited in the fund shall be retained in the fund.
(Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
12-2-7: FEASIBILITY OF FUNDING AND/OR CONSTRUCTION:
The city council may review proposed development of property and the necessity
of storm drain systems. Said review may be requested by any affected property
owner, developer, redeveloper or the city engineer. (Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
12-2-8: FUNDING AND/OR CONSTRUCTION, NOT FEASIBLE:
If, in the opinion of the city council, construction of a storm drainage system
is not feasible because the construction fund and/or the charges to be
collected are insufficient to guarantee the construction of the storm drainage
system, then the city council may pass a resolution in accordance with one of
the following:
   A.   That the request, development or redevelopment is premature to the
basic development or redevelopment of the general area as a whole and that such
request, development or redevelopment is denied or held in abeyance.
   B.   That in the case of development or redevelopment that the developer or
redeveloper pay such charges due as set forth in this chapter and detain on
site all stormwater runoff from said development or redevelopment by means or
methods approved by the city engineer in such a way as to not cause any damage
to properties receiving stormwater overflows.
   C.   The requested development or redevelopment necessitates a storm
drainage system and that the construction thereof is not feasible only because
the construction fund and/or the charges to be collected are deemed
insufficient as set forth herein, and therefore, said property owner, developer
or redeveloper may pay such charges due as set forth in this chapter and
construct or advance the cost of construction of the storm drainage system and
that said costs over and above that which can be borne by the construction fund
by agreement with the city be reimbursed to said property owner, developer or
redeveloper, providing that the source of such reimbursement funds be the
charges collected from others benefiting from said storm drainage system and
providing that such agreement terminate within twenty (20) years of the date
thereof. Said property owner, developer or redeveloper may, at the option of
the city, be given credit against his storm drainage acreage charge for the
cost of construction of storm drainage systems, said cost to be verified to the
satisfaction of the city engineer. (Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
12-2-9: CONNECTION:
   A.   Connection Not To Be Made Until Storm Drainage Systems Acreage Charge
Has Been Paid Or Payment Arranged: In no event shall any developer or
redeveloper of property benefitted by a storm drainage system or other persons
in possession or control of such property be permitted to make connection
thereto without first paying or arranging to pay the storm drainage systems
acreage charge as provided for in this chapter.
   B.   Permit Required For Connection: No person shall make connection to a
storm drainage system without first obtaining a permit to do so and complying
with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Connection To Storm Drainage System To Benefit Property Outside City
Boundaries: The city council may, at its sole discretion, elect to make
available the city storm drainage systems to benefit property outside the city
boundaries, said property so benefitted shall be subject to the storm drainage
system acreage charge as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 652, 2-2-1982)
